ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66790	Okay. Let me read the agenda. I've seen more hands. I saw it, but this one, then I'll give you my word. First of all, good morning. Today's the time: - Proposal for a forest law, first reading, P.Z. No. 308; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Art. 308; 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Now, let me see. The first one I saw was Mr. Varda. Varda was the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66791	Dear Vice President, I request a 10-minute recess to discuss the People's Protection Memorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66792	The other one I saw was Mr. Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66793	He'd be talking about the Croatian Army some morning and I'm looking for a break. ... Intruder Radin: What? I'm sorry, can you say it again, so I get it? The Croatian Army. The role of the Croatian Army and other topics two short.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66794	But other subjects, okay. The third was Mr. Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66795	Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDP Club on the topic of the current political situation and the military.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66796	Current, good. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66797	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66798	Current, two actual. No one else. Mr. Bacic. Who, who? Dodig. Mr. Dodig, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66799	I would like a 10-minute recess on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66800	Three current political situations. 09.45 Who? ... And Baitsch? [[The speakers didn't turn on the microphone, you can't hear.]] But I've asked before. All right, Bait. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66801	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66802	Thank you very much. I figured this one out, that you'd raise your hand for Dodik before. Okay. Thank you very much. 09:45. It's 9:00.35. After 9:45, we're set up. It's 9.45, let's move on. The first to ask for a break is Mr. Rechimer Varda on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, you have your 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, it is rare, and I would even say that we hardly remember the mention of the day in this House, in accordance with the Law on Holidays, the mention of the days and the unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia. So I also have an obligation to remind from this pay phone that the Croatian Parliament declared March 15th on the occasion of the establishment of national protection on 4.11.2011. I remind you that the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, has called on all those who wish to join the National Protection Volunteers to stand in defense of the country of the Republic of Croatia, which is dying. People's protection today is March 15th. National protection is soon being established in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and its members, advocates, were tasked with resisting aggression, Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and the Republic of Croatia to defend areas for which the provisions of national protection were set up and, in the command sense, they were put in charge of coordinating the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. National protection was an important factor in the unique defence system of the Republic of Croatia in 1991 and 1992. It was created at a time when the Croatian state was going through its most difficult days, when it wanted to put into operation the few weapons that we owned, hunting, personal trophy, especially when in preparation for aggression in Croatia, the territorial defence of Croatia was armed. In particular, national protection took part in the blockades, the conquest of military and military facilities and military facilities of the former Yugoslav People's Army, with more military and military warehouses occupied. He participated in roadblocks and surveillance, bridges, overpasses, railways and settlements, protection of objects of importance for local environments, organisations and controls, sea and river roads and canals, armed with contaminants, to protect the population from sniper positions and to protect the warehouse. Therefore, this Croatian Parliament, respecting exactly the position and activity of national protection, adopted the entire Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families on 30 November 2017, so I am convinced that armed members of the People's Protection will finally be able to exercise the rights provided for by that law, which has not been the case so far. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before congratulating all members of the national protection, I must regret it, and I believe I share your opinion, one of the heroes of the Homeland War, General Peter Stipetic, who left us yesterday, and on behalf of the club that I belong to, I offer my sincere condolences to his family and his comrades, and thank you very much for all he has done for free and independent Croatia. My fellow Members and colleagues, I congratulate both you and the members of the People's Protection, today's monument to the establishment of national protection and all members of the People's Protection, and I want them to succeed in the rights that belong to them under the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66805	Thank you, too. Mr. Glasnović, first the future, first the future. I welcome the students and students of the Elektrostroyary School of Varazdin, who are here with us with their professors. A nice round of applause for them Wait, wait, wait. I have to give you my word. I have to give you my word. [[Intruder: Dear colleagues a few.]] Here you go, Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66806	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here are a few short topics this morning, the first topic I would like to commend the Croatian army for what they did both in Karlovac and the surrounding area, I heard from some people yesterday, and there they placed about 40,000 bags of sand. Of course not only the Croatian army, but this firefighter, other service, the Red Cross, and I heard that our defence minister saved one person from a house that crashed, that's good, she continued to lead the example in civilian life as well as in military life. Now a little something in Argentina and a visit to the president in Argentina. Here, the Croatian diaspora, has sent about $60 billion here in the war for the last 25 years. Those Croats from Argentina, they put the house on mortgages, to be sent here from... rifles to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 122. And now the best product is not Argentina, it's not Drago Philcelle, it's Mr... An Argentinean who came here to defend Croatia's state against major Serb aggression, no one knows anything about him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, I would say this, that these people must trust the aspartia not having the right, the moral right to say anything on behalf of the Croatian people. And that's moral, what I heard this morning, actually yesterday, Mr. Bauk, where those people were, some were there like church mice. Okay, well, they have no moral right to speak, because they are heirs to the party that fought for communism and Yugoslavia and the Croatian people were against both of these movements. [[Intruder Radin: Please nice, let's not name it, nor people, please nice, please nice, follow the reminder]] Now we're going after Mr. Zuroff, Mr. Zuroff. He gives us morale rights. He has no moral right to speak to the Croatian people or to give any lessons. I would only point out as an example that from 2000 to 18 years in Palestine, 10,000 almost residents of Palestine were killed, of which 2175 children. And when we remember there's the invasion of Lebanon, the operation... The Israeli army, when compared to the Storm, killed 3,4,000 civilians, violated all international war rights, and they taught us lessons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to order Mr. Zurf to read a book by Elan the Pope called the ethnic cleansing of Palestine. He's also Israeli. Here's another thing about Mr. Zuroff, which is embarrassing, he denied the Serb genocide in Srebrenica. In the end, you have this traditional club Predorana, which will have at 11 o'clock, those who are interested here under where the General Assembly of Klović's Courts will have one exhibition and a short lecture on the death of Croats in the Prijedor region where they have almost disappeared, where they are extinct. There's also talk of rape, killing and camps... In fact, Omarska. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When one prisoner came in there with his brother, he was in Maniachi, when he came in three days later to Omarski, he said this. I was just looking for a place to hang myself. That, of course, if you're interested in some people here from people must trust parties to come down, and I think they will, and I hope they will come more than they came to that holodour exhibit in the queen down what made the great Stalin and continued little Stalin here, there no one came from the Parliament where there was this holodomor and genocide over the Ukrainian people of thirty-three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66807	Mr. Glasovic, I didn't hear you refer to the party here on the left. How did you call her? How? [[Attacka Glasnović: People must trust the party.]] How? You have a warning. [[Attacka Glasnović: People must trust us party. You know who that is, he's a constitutional judge now. People must trust us, because they will remember by...]] Here you go. That's the first warning. The others know what's going on. The second is, the third pardon is pardon Predrag Matic in front of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As you know yesterday, one of the greatest heroes of the Homeland War, General Petar Stipetić, left us after a serious illness. Since we haven't said goodbye to him in a minute of silence yesterday, I suggest that we do not do so today in front of twenty honourable MPs and MPs, but we do so tomorrow before the start of the vote when almost all MPs will surely be in the assembly. I also wanted to be in this way in the name of those of us who had the privilege of being together with a general who was commander and chief during the Homeland War, to say goodbye in this small way to mention at least some things that are very important. So General Stipetic is one of those who can be said to have come quietly and entered the legend. For General Stipetic, who made an immeasurable contribution to the defence of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War, no sports and concert halls will be leased, there will be no special regulation of traffic, no tears will be released, no statements will be made, and the Croatian cathedral of the spirit, the far-sighted one yesterday is in the so-called "Source". The porn term when our people say when honest people sleep, they let a little documentary about this legend of the Homeland War. Let's remember some of them were the whole series in the elite prime time of Croatian television, and General Stipetic came to Croatia from the former JNA army. He came in on time, didn't calculate, and his teeth didn't hurt. And because he came from JNA he was always at the top of the Croatian Army, never at the very top because they never forgave him for coming from the JNA. Many others did, and the resolution was an appropriate card. He was a soldier, and he wasn't interested in it, and he was dealing with how to free the army. A soldier is interested in the army, not politics. Of 150 Croatian generals, we have more per capita than anyone in the world. He is one of the few who has soiled his boots on the trenches of Eastern Slavonia, Bosnian Posavina and Banovina. The Chief of Staff had a lot of assistants and they were all important, but all the time the supporter for the fighting sector for the most important part of the army was General Stipeic. What he did during the Storm at Banovina for textbooks, for textbooks and study throughout the world. That legendary photograph where the commander surrenders to him well hear me corpus not water, not five soldiers who ran on the petrin streets, but the commander of the Corps. No such thing has been recorded since the battle for Stalin's city. If the Americans had General Peter Stipetic about him they'd be making movies and that would be a hero because she's a photo where the general stands in his characteristic position with a cigarette in his mouth on the hood of a police car I'd say like Clint Eastwood and Colonel Chedo Bulat signs his capitulation. It's something that marks the entire Homeland War and gives a picture of the final release of our homeland. After the war he lived so modestly as few generals or defenders lived. He had a smaller pension than many tent attendants who complained it was a small pension. He didn't object, he was stoically putting up with it. He didn't fight for squares, he stayed living in the same apartment he lived in before the war. Chief of Staff, general with five stars. He is one of the few who gave much more to Croatia than Croatia gave him. He wasn't invited to those reunions where his contribution was the greatest. I was thinking why they didn't invite him, so under his shadow, a little bit of being able to point out and say that he set Banovina free, that he was the main guy in the Storm and all that stuff. What is the biggest compliment for General Stipetic is that he was respected by the enemy. When an enemy appreciates you, there is no greater compliment. And as far as I know he wasn't a believer, his Bible was the Geneva Convention. He had no problems with either The Hague or Serbia or BiH. So as far as I know, I don't think General Stipetic was a believer, But I'm sure his noun in the sky is waiting for him to open the door because they need him in heaven as well. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66809	Time, but if I may abuse this pay phone, I share every word you've said. Dear MPs and MPs are honored to be here with us today at the Croatian Parliament gallery His Excellency Sean O′ Fearghail President of the Parliament of Ireland's House of Representatives who is staying with the delegation in the official possession of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get up and give him a hand. Thank you for being with us. [[Applause.]] Let's move on, Mr. Nikola Grmoy, in front of the Bridge Representatives Club of Independent Lists, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66810	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I am again, but it was done yesterday by my colleague Bulj on behalf of the bridge club and colleague Beljak yesterday we expressed our condolences to the Stipetic family. Of course, I'm joining what's been said and I hope here's my colleague Bulj prayed this morning, and I hope that tomorrow when the Parliament is full, we'll have a minute of silence because the late general deserves it. Now, about the subject. Known these days, the European Commission has warned Croatia that structural reforms have not been implemented, that something is constantly being delayed, but most wonder why Croatia is so lagging behind in implementing those measures that would be popular, such as public administration reform. I'm going to describe to you today a situation that so vividly describes this government's slowness in making decisions, even if things are crystal clear, when there are no unpopular consequences of the decisions being made. Since 22 February 2018, a very important national regulatory agency with the public authority of HAK has lost its legal representative and the council it manages. This Decision shall enter into The Government of the Republic of Croatia has issued a public invitation to propose candidates for five members of the HACOM Council and the powers of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to publish a public call on behalf of the Government and collect applications from candidates for the President, Vice-President and members of the HACOM Council. The public invitation was concluded on 13 January 2018 and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure forwarded a list of candidates to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a decision. I note that until today, it means a full two months after the public call was concluded, the government did not propose candidates or refer the proposal to the Croatian Assembly for the appointment of members of the HACOM Council. It is the Croatian Parliament that should appoint a council on the government's proposal, and the government is who knows which path is slow and ineffective. The activities carried out by the HACOM Council have been very precisely prescribed by the Electronic Communications Act, no one is representing or representing this agency without a council. No one is responsible or represented, no one is responsible for the legality of the Agency's work, no one makes decisions concerning the electronic communications, mail and railway markets, no one can order the Agency's financial plan to be implemented, or to order the payment of salaries for 175 HACOM workers. Croatian representatives from HACOM cannot participate in the work of international bodies, which means that no one currently represents Croatia. But when I think about things more clearly, without the HACOM Council without regulatory decisions, so-called. regulatory halliday at the centre of electronic communications, post office and railways. A period when no one prescribes rules to eliminate imperfect competition, when no one prevents a monopoly like that. Croatian Post Office and Duopol Hrvatski Telekom more and less Vipnet. And that is why we will try, or it will be one move that we will take, report to the European Commission this situation because the European Commission has clearly banned regulatory holidays. We believe that this is not about accidental delay but about well-organised activity and for which the interests of monopolies are in the first row of Croatian Telekom. We know that Hrvatski Telekom has his people in the Office of the Prime Minister, we know which they are and how they are connected. We in Most have already warned several times about the catastrophic situation caused by the current president of the HAKOM Council Drazen Lucic, we asked for his resolution because he banned the union from working because the DORH charged him with a criminal offence committed by doing his official duty, Minister of Transport Butkovic wrote to the government that there are conditions for the resolution of three members of the HAKOM Council, but they not only ended their mandate but also asked for a new one. At least that's what the media says. Drazen Lucic spits on this country because he ran again, although there is no confirmation that he is not being prosecuted, the DORH's criminal indictment was delivered to all committees, clubs, government, and no matter how many times Lucic, and it has been done here in front of parliamentary deputies lying that there is no indictment, that lie will not become true. Move gentlemen from the government, do your job, it's 15 billion kuna paid by Croatian citizens, managed by HACOM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66811	Thank you, too. The third is Mr. Goran Dodig in front of the HDS Representatives Club, yes, HSLS, HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66812	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. My topic is also a current political situation but I would like to return it with respect to all the topics that have been presented here and all those who have spoken here and their right to speak, I would like to return it here and now to this Assembly and it is about today the work of the Committee that will address the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to say a few words about that. First, as I understand the Rules of Procedure, that is one legal act, agreed on how relations are regulated in one institution, the management of that institution, relations between those in the leadership, finally, in a specific case of the President of the Parliament, vice president and parliamentary services and representatives. It is brought about in order not to abuse the position but to balance the relationship and those involved in the work, therefore, of the representatives. And having experience in recent years, for the last year that's been going on in the Parliament, I think it needs to be changed. However, no Rules of Procedure will bring better quality work in the Assembly unless each parliamentary representative, including each chairman, asks himself several questions. And not just questions, but unless he's got some facts on his mind. And that is that we all need to know that we come here as people who understand the work of the Parliament only in the experience of this Parliament. So you have to respect those who have been in the Parliament for a long time who know what these relationships are, what is the practice and everything else is very individual. We come with our individual psychology, we come with our knowledge which is not parliamentary representation because none of us taught a school for a parliamentary representative, none of us have, and we all have our history not only psychologically but also professionally, we have specific knowledge and we have some general knowledge but it's less and less important than what's important for working in this House, which is that we have consciousness of what institution we've come into. So we have to ask ourselves what Parliament is, how we experience it. Do we only see it as a place where we can talk about everything and turn incompetent and free speech into freedom, I cannot find the right expression and the freedom of insult, and sometimes chatter, entering professional topics for which we are not competent, etc. It's hard, it's hard for one MP to talk about everything competently. And he doesn't even have to speak competently. They can also focus here on something that is generally acceptable and what everyone can have in the Assembly, which is the aim of this Parliament, that knowledge, first knowledge, that the Parliament is one of the most important institutions of the Croatian state, that together with the institutions of the Croatian state is responsible for the functioning of that state, that functioning, that it is responsible for the functioning of society as a whole, the measures in which it is responsible, that it is responsible that every day there is a commonity and understanding and that our idea of leadership is not here daily to unload any problem, either individually or in general and beyond. And create one sense of hopelessness, the feeling that nothing is worth anything and that we actually have a failed state. I'm saying this isn't a failed state, despite the difficulties we've had, which have accumulated for years. We have difficulties in Germany, we have in England, we have in America, we have, there is no country in the world that has no difficulties but to create a negative climate that is not the aim of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66813	Thank you, Mr. Dodig. And finally in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66814	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here are colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ club also deeply regretted the death of our general and longtime Chief of Staff, Chief General Peter Stipetic. The President of the Parliament sent a telegram to feel sorry for the family and yesterday, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we did so together with all those present at the meeting, and the Minister of Defence made it clear that all honours deserved by Staff General Petar Stipetic would be in agreement with his family for his funeral available and made possible. Commemoration as well as all that belongs in such cases I am sure it will be by the Ministry of Defence because it is a man who was indeed one of the prides of Croatia who was also my commander in certain operations, and for which we truly, sincerely regret. We regret that he left too soon because he was the one who created the freedom of the West Slavonia by commanding in the Flash. It is he who commanded in the Storm and freed Petrinja and that part of Croatia. It is he who surrendered 5,000 people to the Serb province's army from the 21st Corduna Corps headed by Colonel Chad Bulat. At that time, the Republika Srpska Army capitulated, and then freedom appeared in Croatia and all the merits as a long-standing foreign member of the Defence Committee, it was clear by commenting on current laws as well as on all matters concerning the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces of the Republic of Croatia, it was clear and resolved. He had the courage and courage to join the ranks of the Croatian army at the beginning of the Homeland War as a JNA officer at the invitation of President Tudjman and to assist in forming, training, defence and later showed his knowledge, experience and love for his country through the liberating operations carried out. On behalf of the club, I express my deep regret and condolences to his family, and I believe that tomorrow when we all get together, we'll all be together for a minute of silence to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u66815	Thank you very much, Mr. Djakic. And so we're done with the interruptions today, with the morning breaks. Today's the time: - Proposal for a forest law, first reading, P.Z. No. 308; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Art. 308; 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law. As far as the proposal for the Law on Forests is concerned, I said before the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. Does the representative of the proposer or the Ministry of Agriculture want to give an additional explanation? We have Mr. Secretary of State Zeljko the Queen, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Forests and forest land are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, have its special protection. The proposal of the Forest Act provides for the strategic objective of sustainable forest management and forest land and, on the other hand, removes the difficulties and administrative barriers identified by the application of the applicable Forest Law primarily in the work relating to the availability of forests and forest land. Sustainable forest management implies the use of forest and forest land in a way and to a degree that maintains its biodiversity, productivity, regeneration capacity, vitality and potential for the current and future to meet relevant environmental, economic and social functions at local, national and global level and causing damage to other ecosystems. Also in the sustainable management of forests and forest land, we protect the existential and economic needs of the population, enable rural development and ensure the necessary measures to protect the unique forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia as a functional whole. The proposed provisions of the law create preconditions for horizontal and vertical harmonisation at national level as well as for the challenges set before the forestry sector and the forest-related sectors and with the rational use of forests and forest land. With the aim of rational use of forests and forest land, available procedures have been arranged and are harmonised for regulations in other areas of state property management, strategic investment projects, environmental protection and nature protection and spatial planning. The spatial plans are a basic prerequisite for the availability of forest and forest land and the participation of all relevant stakeholders is of great importance in the process of making and adopting the same. The Ministry shall take part in the adoption of those opinions and the opinion of the Ministry of Spatial Planning shall be subject to the decoupling of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia with a spatial plan covering the construction area and/or a separate building area. In order to better monitor the changes in the areas of forests and forest land, i.e. detachment, is the condition of the detachment act brought by the Ministry of Agriculture. Furthermore, with the purpose of uniting procedures for individual projects in the establishment of limited and real rights over forests and forest land, it is envisaged to manage the service procedures and to establish the right of construction for infrastructure projects, waterways, deforestation, gas, electricity and other waterways, while the availability of forest and forest land in the jurisdiction of the body for the management of state property, regardless of whether it is to separate individual forests and forest land for the purpose of implementing spatial plans for construction or for the establishment of building rights on forests and forest land for the purpose of building camps and other sports-recreation buildings in accordance with spatial plans. Establishing the right to build for those purposes on forests and forest land instead of segregating and transferring ownership rights considered as protection of ownership of the Republic of Croatia, as well as maintaining the total area of forest economic areas. The introduction of the possibility of demarcating certain forest land owned for agricultural use on the one hand and, on the other hand, the integration of certain land into the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, which will not be brought to agricultural production in the forest-economic areas, is significantly contributed to the procedures of land regulation owned by the Republic of Croatia for the demarcation of agricultural and forest land, taking into account the real situation on the ground, with the agreement of the experts of the forest and agri-economic profession, the valid Law on Forests is prescribed to prohibit the change of cultures in fire-fighting areas at 5 years from fire-fighting. By proposing legislation, the deadline for changing the purpose of fire-fighting areas with the obligation to resuscitate areas by forest owners within 2 years has been extended to 10 years, taking into account the needs of local self-government units for project planning, as well as projects of communal and economic needs, schools, cemetery, residential buildings, etc. For the first time, the possibility of replacing forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia with forests owned exclusively by other persons within the economic unit was introduced and for the purpose of surrounding forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Croatian forests d.o.o., public authorities are given, which refers to the implementation of the whole process of granting in the lease of forest land. As a result, it is expected to speed up the process with the retention of the transparency of the procedure itself and the control of the implementation of the procedure by the ministry. The purpose of the lease of forest land has been further expanded, and the conditions and criteria under which certain forest land can be leased are already developed in law, with the envisaged adoption of a regulation that will define the criteria for the rental of forest land, the documentation required for the public call, the duration of the call and the additional criteria for the termination of the lease contract. The efficiency of forest management and forest land management contributes and implements the establishment of a register of forest-economic areas of the Republic of Croatia, as an electronic record representing a united system of registers and registers of data on the computer programme, a geo-portal, a register of private forest owners, a register of damage to forest and eco-systems, a register of forest fires, a recording of the signs and other signposts, whose purpose is to ensure the effectiveness of access to information and monitoring changes in the areas of forests and forest land. The register will also provide for different operational actions, information and reports in the long term, given the changes followed by the state and public administration without any additional burden on the administration. Furthermore, the bill clearly defines forests and forest land as well as the division of forests according to the purpose of where the concept of urban forests is introduced for the first time. Urban forests are forests and forest land surrounded by construction areas or direct borders with construction areas, settlements, and have a significant impact on the quality of life of the inhabitants of the village itself. Forests whose purpose is to create the necessary conditions for rest and recreation of visitors, forests within the range of camps, playgrounds and other sports-recreation areas. The approval procedures for forest-economic plans have also been defined as a basic document for the management and use of forests and forest land in the area of the Republic of Croatia, with the responsibility of data makers for accuracy and expertise: area, wood supply, increase,... And a list of forest-economic plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A new category of forest-economic plans has also been introduced: economic unit management programmes with an environmental network management plan, which is a major step in terms of specific regulations in the field of nature protection and environmental protection, and the need to carry out previous evaluations and environmental impact studies, even for the management plans of natural resources that forest-economic plans are unequivocal. Such a model, i.e. by further expanding the content and activities to be processed in forest-economic plans, along with regulations concerning forest management, management plans will be management plans for environmental networks. A unique definition of forest owners is proposed, thus achieving a better standard of rights and obligations of forest owners as a whole, while respecting their specificities. The division of private forest owners according to the size of the property enables further promotion of small, or medium-sized forest owners in particular in the section concerning the financing of the production and restoration of forest-economic plans, as well as the work and management, which contributes to the survival and protection of small forest owners. The registration and removal from the register of private forest owners, on the basis of the requirements of the forest owners, will be made by submitting applications to the competent office of the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service as a public authority of the service with the aim of a uniform and faster registration for users. The proposal retains, compensation for the general services of the forest at the same level of 0.0265% of total income is reserved for all legal and natural persons carrying out their economic activity and making total revenue greater than 3 million kuna, resulting in the fact that the compensation will not be paid by persons with incomes less than 3 million kuna, which we consider to be a contribution to the development and promotion of small entrepreneurship. In our projections alone, it's more than 90% of all private and legal persons. Maintaining this strictly dedicated income is of great importance for the forest sector because it ensures the biological restoration of forests for which significant resources are allocated, 60% of total revenues, as well as demining forests and forest land, as well as financing fire communities, which has protection for both forest and forest land and urban areas from the catastrophic consequences of the fire. A forest contribution of 5 or 3.5% is paid to local self-government units. The funds of the forest contribution shall be paid to the special account of the units of local self-government from the area in which the forest is cut down and used exclusively for the financing of construction and maintenance of municipal infrastructure. The aim of the contribution is to reinvest the generation value of forest goods in a particular area in the local self-government unit. The adoption of sublegislative acts has been overlooked to regulate the way in which the forest contribution payments are to be made, thus ensuring better monitoring and payment of contributions by all forest owners. The proposal also provides that part of the existing allocation fee is to be paid at the expense of the state budget, which is to be used for an optimal contribution to forests, the forestry sectors and the forest-related sectors, rural ones that will encourage rural development, job creation and the creation of additional value in the wood industry sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76239	Thank you, too. Eight replicas. The first line has a traditional Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76240	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, traditionally you comment on what your role is and on business, but I would like to address a very important topic here. So, you have called yourself in this law as a legislator that you will help rural development of the example of Gorski Kotar, an example of Slavonia, an example of where the tree is the largest source and the biggest source, the tree is, the source is the forest. However, in Article 67 alone, you mention that a forest contribution will be paid from 3.5% to 5% to local self-government. Were you in Chabra, were you in those cities that were in the Gorski Kotar that were forgotten and you speak 5%? At least this law said that there would be a lower price of heating in these areas of the Gorski kotar examples, the residents, that you would have, at a lower price of the sawmill in these areas, and that they would remain people because they were empty areas, because you only milk from these parts of the natural wealth, you would exploit them and you left these people local self-government as averages to worship in governments and to beg them, to be guided by their mentors, to guide them for help. 5 from 3 to 5%. And not only that in article 10, this is that you can do golf courses in forests, golf courses. This is the law on golf courses. You forbade the domicile population, banned the brothers from the asparagus. They have to pay and you'll do golf courses for who in those areas? There they need sawmills, they need benefits for entrepreneurs, they need domestic heating literally free to keep people in the area, and you're doing this in the interest, this isn't forest law, it's a law on interest groups that museums and mountain-mounts to which they're forgotten and you've given good support here. However, we will certainly soon give the new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas to which we will point and which leaders will say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76241	I'm sorry, but the time is up and I haven't been able to see... Neither do I, frankly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The other one's Mr. Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76242	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. First of all, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that today we do not have a real minister here. For what? Well, look, we're discussing forests and the woods are almost 50% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that one of our most valuable resources is a team more than the state owns 80% of the forest. And indeed this law was actually an ideal opportunity to show how much this government cares about decentralisation. Because the question of the forest itself, the payment of the forest contribution itself and its amount to be charged, i.e. that goes into the budget of the units of local self-government and the costs that exist for the maintenance of that infrastructure that is being destroyed when the forest is exploited, so I'm not talking about forest roads,... I'm talking about unclassified roads are huge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, instead of taking advantage of the opportunity now and increasing this forest contribution, it is therefore not about the contribution that goes towards entrepreneurs, which goes towards the private sector, even if it is in the law that it is paid by private, legal and physical persons. It is paid in the largest part of Croatia's forest and is the amount of some 50 million kunas which they therefore transfer to local self-government units. So we could increase it, they could have given Croatia's forests as a winner, as a company that has about 200 million kunas get most of it and get transferred, i.e. to local self-government units, then it would have been one law that I believe can be improved to another reading that really goes in the direction of decentralisation and that goes towards the units of local self-government and where the forests are unfortunately and the poorest benefit from it and that Croatian forests repair those roads and really give their financial contribution, maintaining truly municipal infrastructure, because this amount that is now envisaged is definitely too small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76243	Now it's Mr. Felak's replica. Here you go, Mr. Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76244	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I first welcome this Law of the Forests, he certainly has his own shortcomings, and we have heard in these replicas that, well, some of them are, in my opinion, baseless claims are made, but surely he can be done from the first to the second reading. So here I have noticed some illogicalities that could be corrected and I will specify the specific meaning of Article 38. The law, paragraph 3 which states that, exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 1, I believe that there is a mistake, that it should stand in paragraph 2 of this article provided that it is not contrary to forest-economic plans and specific regulations in forests owned by the Republic of Croatia, the public forest owner may, at the expense of, suggest that it writes here without compensation or with compensation, allow the collection of forest products of the exploitation of humus and resins. Because as far as I know, Croatian forests have recently passed a regulation that without compensation can be collected by side forest products within the area they master. In addition, only forest infrastructure of hunting and hunting-technical facilities, buildings for the purposes of defence and control of the state border can be built in Article 40 in the forest on forest land. Monuments marking the graves of war victims. I suggest here to add, meaning monuments that mark places or victims of mass graves or victims of war because we already have a lot of examples where the deaths of some of our heroes from the Homeland War, and also from some wars earlier, mean not only places of mass graves but also places where certain workers have been killed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76245	Thank you. Mrs. Luc-Polanc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76246	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. This forest law, I would say first of all, is not ambitious or brave enough, that this is just about certain cosmetic changes. But since this is a replica I will later in my individual debate explain it in more detail. I would only mention here as already in replicas this forest contribution is being instructed. In the forest contribution you leave, on the one hand you state in your opening section that you have divided private forest owners by size, to reduce costs, to help them, and on the other hand in article 67 you leave them in the same category with the Croatian forests. So those little forest owners that have 0.1 acres of forest. And they pay that forest contribution 5 to 3.5% depending on the areas. So I'm asking you now why in this law in this article, it's not like the first thing if we have a social, if we're socially sensitive, which is why we didn't share those categories of forest owners in this article and why we didn't give that percentage. Of which the price will be determined by the five or 3.5%. It means whether there's a state price list on which it's to be determined. And you also have to consider that these little forest owners, so that's one poor grandfather who lives in the Gorski kotar or Slavonia when he sells two, three cc's of wood except that he pays the cost of the sign, except that he has the cost of shipping escorts and escorts there's also the cost of extracts, he has to have a grantine and excerpt from a grantine and a cadastre that's not more than 6 months old. And here we put the cost of the contribution, and on the other hand to the Croatian forests we leave the same commitment of 5%. But I say this later in my debate, I will specify which problems are that Croatian forests as one big firm with great profits,... They're pulling into central, and they don't leave it to local units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76247	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76248	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So you're right when you say this is an extremely important law. Namely, the area of Slavonia from which I come are forests, somehow people are brought together with forests and will live still by the woods. And we can see the backdrop for economic development in the woods right now. I welcome the minister's announcement that he will reduce by 15% or perhaps even a larger amount of wood mass to be delivered to all those who produce the final product, furniture. 25% that's good to say hello anyway, but what bothers me about the Law of the Forests, I'm going to say a little bigger remarks later in the debate. But the forest law is disabled because as far as I've known since 2003, we don't actually have a forest strategy. And all the efforts of the European Commission and the European Parliament that actually warn that in forestry there is a large, large capacity for development and industry, rural areas. So since 2009, transport has been linked to a 2 billion-euro bioeconomy, and forests have been the main driver. Because we can actually look at the value of forest mass not only through biofuels or not only through furniture production but also through construction materials. And there is the possibility of opening 20 million jobs at EU level. What should be seen in the Republic of Croatia certainly with the proper management of the Croatian forests to open a significant potential for development and jobs, and not to be this law again as the previous law, and we will have them listed later when I say that everything is not being run again, it does not come down to golf. Because I don't know, I'm not against golf but I don't understand why golf deserved such attention in the Republic of Croatia? We're about to put it in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76249	Thank you. You're exactly like clockwork. You're up to the last one, right on zero. Congratulations! Mr. Demetlika, also correct in a proverbial manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, I've come forward for this replica because in your presentation, I've felt a certain contradiction. In your presentation, you explained the article 51 relating to property legal relations and how the forest land, and the establishment of the right to build, etc. is distinguished. However, you also mentioned that you have extended or increased the time limit from two years to ten years for burned forests and forest land. So on the one hand, we're going to speed up the procedure, and that's where we extend from two to ten years. And now I ask why? Most likely because we Croats are an innovative people and then by burning down certain surfaces of the forest, we would somehow come to a better use. However, I would like to say that exactly this kind of fire-fighting area where it happens most often in the coastal part of Croatia means where agricultural land or forest land is not so rich, so it should be possible to re-purpose these lands burned for a purpose such as planting for example olive groves. I'm going to mention Vodnjan, where just a few years ago one of these burned areas was turned into one of the largest olive groves in the Mediterranean. So I think this, this contradiction... Explain why it's been extended to ten years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76251	Thank you very much. Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76252	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what you said in your presentation that the law is horizontally and vertically consistent. Since I know about the energy and climate sector, so climate protection policies are therefore climate protection policy, and since I know that Member States are obliged to deliver integrated energy and climate plans, I am interested in how I did not see it in the law, firstly whether you are aware of the importance of forests and forest activities and forests in general on this portfolio and how you have connected horizontally or whether there is your contribution to the development of a plan or draft national energy and climate policy strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76253	Thank you, too. Last line, Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. This law is one of the most important laws in the area of our Gorski Kotar we had one working meeting last week with the mayor of Delnica, Vrbovski and Chabra who complained about the existing legislation that is not good. And when we look at the proposal of this law where one item states that the law is intended to help rural development and decentralisation, which is really nice and all are full of decentralisation mouths, but when we see article 67, the contribution allocated to local self-government units from the forest contribution 3.5% for the RH area and 5% for mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas. This is really embarrassing 5% to allocate forest contributions to local self-government units from the assisted area when we know that the municipal infrastructure in the mountainous mountainous area of infrastructures that requires enormously more resources to be maintained than in other areas of Croatia. Today we have had essentially in the past snow problems, snow cleaning, enormously segregating funds, communal compensation cannot repair everything that needs to be singled out in order to maintain clean roads, and I do not see why there can be no increase of these 5% to a significantly higher figure where this would increase the income to local self-government units above all in Gorski kotar where these funds would be very useful for maintaining the municipal infrastructure primarily unclassified roads and other roads that are used to export troops. This leaves the Gorski Kotar with forests, and the forests are not contributed to them by anything new, the logs of exports remain behind the exporting of logs damage to the unclassified road and all other roads, and the income is truly miserable that the poorer can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76255	Thank you, too. We have students and students from the School of Economics and Bureau Engineering from Bjelovar and this is a great interest because there is only the first group, the second group should come at 12.10 and I would ask you to welcome them and their professors with applause. Now let's move on with the representatives' clubs. [[Applause]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Mr. Sagar will speak on behalf of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76256	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So we were able to follow from the media when we announced the adoption of the new Forest Act, the statement by Minister Tolusic, which is important what is passed in the law, and there we can set out a few things that will later be commented on. One of the very important things is the release of fee payments for the general useful function of the forest of all entrepreneurs who have income less than three million kunas. Therefore, this measure focuses on the discharge of entrepreneurship and we should certainly welcome it, but there is another danger related to it and the other thing is, and it is related to facilitating the procedures of re-use or detachment from the forest economic base of those areas which should not be there and the opposite of the introduction into the forest economic base of what should be. But before I start to make any concrete remarks about the law itself, let it be a little bit, since the topic is only a few things that are important from the point of view of the Republic of Croatia that should be highlighted for us, and also for our citizens who listen to us. Thus, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 52, states that "the land, forests, plant and animal world, other parts of nature for which the law stipulates that they are of interest to the Republic of Croatia have its special protection". Half of the land area of the Republic of Croatia consists of forests and forest land, 80% of the forest is owned by the Republic of Croatia, 20% of the forest is privately owned. In the EU, few situations vary naturally from country to country, but in most countries the same half of the land is under forests, but when we talk about private ownership, then largely 60% of ownership is private property. So we have specific that this relationship of private and public ownership is far from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. We have brought great wealth into the EU by entering the EU, these are our forests, it is a great wealth. We have a tradition since 1769 when the forest order was introduced during Maria Teresa in Croatian since then we have practically had to say this documented management of Croatian forests. 4500 species in the Republic of Croatia, 50% are preserved in different forest vegetation communities. About 260 indigenous wooden forest species, about 50 of them are important for the economy, and the most represented is the beech. 95% of the forests in the Republic of Croatia are of natural origin. We have about a million hectares of forest and 42% of forests and forest land in the Republic of Croatia are made up of these millions of hectares. And what should now be pointed out is that these areas are particularly threatened by fires. And what still needs to be pointed out, that more significant surfaces, forests are mined or still mines are suspicious. Forest economic plans, to me, here, would ask the secretary of state to explain later when he takes his word. I understand, I need to make them, what's a handicap, what we don't have a strategy to follow, we have other documents, it's not legally precise, it's mentioned that the regulation, who's actually making the forest economic plan, is confirmed by the ministry, whether it's authorized engineers, forestry, which are deadlines, it's little that the law isn't precise, that maybe we know as agents, what it's going to look like. What is important by law must be public procedure, so it must be transparent, must be visible and accessible to citizens. So, what we all know, that forest management is state-owned, is entrusted to the company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. Otherwise Croatian forests have a three-stage organization, so we have forests, we have forest management and we have a directorate. I think that when he talked about decentralisation, he mentioned only in relation to local self-government units, but we have a problem with decentralisation in a different sense, I'm going to make it very clear here. According to all the indicators, when we talk about the label, about everything that's going on, Nasice Forest Management, you shouldn't have a seat in Nasice, so you should have it in Slatina, according to all the indicators, however, and it's a political decision and so it's happening now. We will have the initiative on Monday, and here, I see, my colleague Djakic is already raising the line, and I will support that initiative, and I will try to fight over it, because that is the principle of decentralisation. With what we can say, we don't mind Najsice developing, but we also want Lika Podravska County to develop, i.e. It's bacon. What I mentioned in the replica, it's not just this government, it's the problem of all governments so far, and that's our problem as a society, a strategy, we have to do a strategy, the European Commission, the European Parliament, everyone gives us guidelines, and we don't do a strategy. And now the 20% of the forests that are privately owned, what characterizes them? The fragmentation of private forest properties, the average of less than half a hectares, the lack of property legal relations, insufficiently educated private forest owners, the large share of degraded forests owned by private forest owners, the lack of forest economic plans, under-open forest complexes, poor availability, the problem of mobilization of wood mass, the unregulated market for wood and unsettled forest products. These are some of the things that are affecting private forest owners. I don't know at this point, maybe the secretary of state knows, we in the Republic of Croatia, we now have 20% question how many years will we have in a couple of years of private forests and have given the procedures of returning the forest to private owners. And so, it is also one of the dangers, not in terms of danger, that we are afraid of private ownership, but again it is the units of local self-government, again it is those features that are important for the development of this region, because I welcome the minister's decision to reduce the price for all who use the final product, because this is the only way to develop the economy and employ people. And now to go to this compensation for a general useful function of the forest, to welcome the growth of the economy, however, I would like the ministry to tell me, however, which are mechanisms, in which way these funds will be compensated for what is needed to preserve the forest. And now perhaps to take immediate advantage of the opportunity, what is the general observation of a colleague and colleagues from the Most and our club, somehow the gravity of this law has been placed on me to say management, but it seems to me to be untapped of the forest, and they forgot this main part, which is actually the preservation of the forest, the editing of the forest, after all, the abirg for the future of Croatian forests. Well, that's kind of the impression, I'm not saying it's not there, we can agree when the proposer says so, and so far it's been in the law. But I think it could have made a significant step. And this part then around the forest growers, should be welcomed that private forests can also be used should still be seen, found a means to make it a more significant amount. I think it's now according to estimates of some 160 million kuna a year. And these funds are also used for fire communities, in accordance with the Fire Department, for demining, more than 380 million so far, works, forest cultivation, crops, planting, forest protection against harmful biological, abiotic factors, building fire infrastructure, forest conservation and scientific research. Perhaps we should just list that it is also known that the public knows what the institutions in this sector, which are related, are directly related to this law, means the Ministry of Agriculture, the administration of forestry, hunting and wood industry, a scientific, teaching, higher education institution, which is the University of Zagreb's Faculty of Forestry. He is at the age of 4 high school institution in the area of the Republic of Croatia. We have one institute, it is the Croatian Forest Institute, the Academy of Forest Sciences, the Croatian Forest Society, the Croatian Chamber, engineers, forestry and wood technology and state-owned companies of the Croatian Forest. As far as this Forest Act is concerned, it has related touch points with other laws, through the following points, protection of natural environments, spatial planning, water economy, energy, defence, tourism, and here again mentions these points of reluctance, camps and golf courses, agriculture, and now the main problem is cataracts in terms of culture and science. To go back to the golf course, no one has, I personally don't mind, we haven't heard from colleagues either, but somehow, it's weird that it's kind of getting through that much. I've never seen a study anywhere as much as it can actually be of interest to the Republic of Croatia, in terms of tourism development, and here, you as a promoter, you have to understand that our fear is actually of apartmentisation, of what goes into golf. It's not a golfing problem in itself that someone out there is going to hit a ball in the woods but what's going to come out of it. We have the Strategic Investments Act, under the law something can be declared a strategic investment. And then it can even happen that even local, if I'm wrong, warn me, that even local self-government units can no longer intervene because the Ministry of First Economy and then the Ministry of State Property will say it's of strategic interest and this project will be implemented. What it is for sure to greet is the register that plans it. Here we need to think carefully about how the register will be established and for information support so that it doesn't happen to us like in other cases that we don't have, that we have a bunch of data that we can't connect with each other. Does agriculture and forestry have this problem, catastra, unsettled relations. And as head of the local self-government unit, I met with this problem that people later sought contract annexes because actually, while it wasn't the ARCOD then they got the incentive, then they couldn't get the incentive anymore and they had to pay rent for land that they couldn't actually process because it was grown with permanent crops. The law mentions and there is important to introduce order, I welcome it, so licensed contractors, there are about 360 crafts and companies, authorised engineers have about 1200 members. The only thing that may be missing in this law and the European Parliament welcomes it and actually encourages the whole and the strategy, and then the law should put a focus on workers in forestry. Forest workers are the bearers of the whole story. That's where the weight should be. You know that the work in forestry especially if we're talking about cartilage, people who are in peril every day isn't easy at all. That's why I feel it, and I'm going to admit it as a personal failure because at the time I supported the government when most of the jobs were being transferred to the agencies. Here you should see because these people who work in agencies work again with tools from the Croatian Forests and people are half paid. So the whole strategy should be towards the worker, according to job creation, especially Slavonia. I will say this now, and may I say, at least I have noticed so far there has never been a problem, in my personal name, I believe that, although I speak for the Club, I believe that Croatian forests as a company do not have to do business with profits, do not have to do business with profits, Croatian forests must take care of forests and Croatian forests must ensure the employment of all those who should work and always work in the woods there is. And here we end up touching, it's not to ignore again, it's a wood industry based on forests, a strong export segment, the biggest trade is with Italy, Germany, Slovenia, Austria, a large economic contribution, a 7% share in the total exchange of Republics, one third of the total number of employees in the processing industry. So what the ministry, the minister has set off, the ministry has begun to prevent our troops from exporting as much as possible, because it actually needs to be stimulated as much as possible by the production of added value. And believe me, there's still a lot of gaps. I also received from Vienna a picture of Croatian trucks driving wooden logs around Vienna without a problem. As far as these contracts are concerned, I hope that these contracts will be settled, that all, as the minister has promised, that all those who produce furniture will receive the necessary amount of wood mass. And not to mention hunting, I'm glad this law mentions hunting plans, that they must be consistent with forest management plans. It's the same big, it's a great potential for tourism development and ultimately for rural development. Finally, let me conclude, we'll see until the second reading, if you adopt any of our remarks and all, there's a chance that we can support otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76257	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagar. 11 replicas. First Mr. Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76258	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke of the importance of this law, but you also quoted parts of the provisions of the Constitution that speak of both the importance of valorisation and the protection of the forest. And that actually motivated me to get involved in this debate and make my contribution from the context of Article 46, which says that on the burning surfaces of forests and forest land can't change for at least 10 years from the fire. In fact, I would like to say specifically the following, what is the very precise and clear position of our club, which is that in the burned areas construction must not happen and there must be no construction. The following, I believe, is that this law is from the experience that we can assess from our environment where... In the burned areas, certain criminal groups exerted strong pressure on politics and that the burned area later changed into a construction area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am following this attitude that this should be incorporated into the law, there is no construction in the burned area, that the time limit should be removed as far as the time limit is concerned is concerned, and that the solution that this culture in the burned areas can be planted there. My colleague Demetlik spoke the case of the town of Vodnjan where they were olives. Whether there's going to be olives or something but I'm going to repeat, built no, the waist has to give which cultures there can be planted and planted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76259	Mr. Sagar do you want to answer? Okay, no. Mr. Tomislav Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76260	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the reference to your question: Who's making the forest-economic bases and programs, and what's defined that? Well, even in this law, in fact, from Article 28th and beyond, one good part has been defined who makes and makes the very way, but it is also defined by a series of acts, both the chambers and the regulations themselves, primarily the Regulation on forest editing and I am actually the process of making forest-economic bases and the program is very complex and extensive. And if we were to implement it in fact the provisions of this law then this law would have to let's say that maybe five times or six times as many articles as there are now. I would take this opportunity to appeal to the ministry that, of course, by adopting this law, I am withdrawing a series of amendments, i.e. the adoption of new regulations, i.e. in particular, I am referring to those regulations on forest editing, since I myself have been working for ten years as a tax collector and a maker of basics and programs. The most complicated, most of all, problems bring us this split between the two laws when we have one law in place under which we make the basics. We have to commit to regulations that are very often either late or not passed, and then there's a lot of different interpretations and there's an awkward situation. So once again, I will also appeal that, in parallel with the law, we are going as soon as possible to make new regulations that will actually define further things for us, because we see that there is much change in the law, so that the makers of the forest-economic plans would actually allow us to do so much easier work and here's how much longer I have you said that Croatian forests don't have to do business with profits. I agree with you here, but let's define that for once, not that we have periods in which we force profits to the heart of the forest, to the heart of the workers, to the heart of the protection of the workers. On the one hand we ask the Croatian Forests for profit, and on the one hand we ask to say it so let's say a service in fact and one purpose of the Croatian forests which we can not achieve at that time because of running for profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76261	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76262	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a very short colleague. So, there's no misunderstanding. Well, of course, Croatian forests are businesses and private businesses must deal with profits. I said just like that principled human attitude, because it bothers me when it comes to winning, and then the question of where it's going to be spent. Maybe it's better to get more people to work, to have, but that's the thing I won't say again, maybe let's say business plan, what the company will do, how it will. Because you can make a profit by sharing your cancellations, and then you leave it to the agency, the agencies offer 50% cheaper and here, here you go. Or you sell a bunch of pits, you cut. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76263	Thank you. Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleague Sagar. So speaking of the law you mentioned something very interesting, it's been current for years and it's the management of the Virovitica-Podrava County forest that would have been in the protection of forests and in the cultivation and progress in the old forests meant a lot since it was once in Slatina and the building remained empty. By political decision she was transferred to Slatin, i.e. To Nasice. Today, Virovitica-Podravska County has three forest administrations. One is in Koprivnica County, one is in Bjelovarska and one is in Nasca. Since the conditions have been met that in the return of property, the largest part that has been returned to private residents has not been enough to manage anything, and the Osijek-Baranja County has two administrations. There is one for willows and poplars in Osijek, and there is another in Nasice for our oak and beech, so it is a normal initiative that you have supported since 2003 and now it is a wonderful time when there are so many of us interested in bringing it together and putting it together so that it would probably be the 17th administration of these 16 and that would unite the County with the whole area and its natural wealth and protect and grow but also care for all segments of life on the forests in that area. I hope some have three administrations, so it's too much so that one county can function with one administration throughout the area. I'm glad we're together in this initiative, and we'll probably put it into action.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76265	Thank you very much. The joint initiative shortens the time I see. Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76266	Thank you very much, dear colleague Sagar. So you mentioned the lack or lack of a situation in terms of lack of strategy. So we don't have a strategy in many fields, and so do we in this activity. In fact, I think it is forgotten that the forests in Croatia are one great wealth, one major that generates various interest rates and is often seen only through, therefore, the amount of biomass and money that can be obtained. But we need to know and remember that every cubic meter of wood that grows binds a ton of carbon dioxide. And on that account, we at the national greenhouse gas emission balance have a sink of what is measured in millions of tons of carbon dioxide. And that's the potential to work on, given when it's burned, then it's neutral because that CO2 comes back. However, each of the trees remaining in the country represents a bound CO2 which is therefore bound by this least desirable carbon pool in general, i.e. carbon dioxide. So I agree with that view of yours and that's why it would be good to have a broader view here. I'm not saying that there is no profession in the proposings, but things are quite complex and it's very important to include all aspects, to use all the values that come from this extremely valuable national treasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76267	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76268	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Dobrović, what somehow marks us as a society we have a tradition, we have knowledge, we have experience, we have institutions. Here's the mention of the Forest College. We're, my neighborhood from which I come from from the Djurdian towards Virovitica he's actually developed in the woods. The first railroad passed there. In Slatina, there were the first steam sawmills in the late 19th century. Dear gentleman, I think, unfortunately, the deceased who founded Ikea, he earned the first money in the 40s or 50s of the last century to smuggle matches. At that time, serious things were done in my neighborhood, serious tree-related programs, unfortunately a giant wood-processing giant Guy Slatine who hired more than three thousand workers. He had $20 million in export products, he had the world's largest hotels, the most prestigious, so we had tradition, we had experience, and now we don't use it in such a way that we don't have a strategy at all, and the wealth remains present. So forests as wealth exist only we all need to get serious and start working and ultimately enable those who want to work, and wood mass is not just like we said regarding its heating value or value of making furniture. What you as a doctor of science and a professor at engineering school wood is an extremely good construction material and there is plenty of space. Guy Voćin remained production, something was managed to preserve wood carriers that I think were not produced in this part of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76269	Thank you, too. Next replica, Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76270	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. Dear Representative Sagar. Croatian forests d.o.o. and landowners are obliged to manage and maintain and improve the biological and landscape systems and to use these resources to protect the forest eco-system. cca 35% of Croatia is under the forest, but this does not mean that everything that is classified as a forest is economically usable, but those forests that are not economically usable have a general useful function. The fee collected from the general useful function of the forest is the fee paid so far by all legal and natural persons who have carried out economic activity in Croatia. This law exempts 90% of the current taxpayers and cca 181 000 users from the compensation of the new law. all natural and legal persons carrying out economic activity and earning income less than cca 3 million kuna. For years, a fee has been collected if you know what the annual fee was, and have these funds been used for forest management or have they been used differently? Now the funds of approximately 80 million kuna will be in the Wood Industry Development Fund, which we think is good and positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76271	The answer to Mr. Sagar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76272	Thank you. Dear colleague Kirin, well maybe I'm speaking here on behalf of the club, I'm not a forest profession, and maybe it's my handicap. There are colleagues who know a lot more about these issues, but I was saying what I hear from everyday conversation with citizens, what I hear at the end and with people who are the same professions. We can set things up like this, we should welcome the release of the KEFSH payment for small entrepreneurs. This is where you put the income limit of three million kunas. I think it's 250 kuna a year, if I'm right, 265 a year. Now look, what you say now, on the one hand maybe there's room and somewhere else to free the entrepreneurs, it's 20 kuna a month. One company certainly uses the phone a thousand, 500 kuna a month for needs, so it's hard there, if I say something about this now I'm attacking a little entrepreneurship and we support parafiscal accusations, but on the other hand I warned there, there will be no funds, I guess there will be no funds, and then the ministry or government will have to find other models.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76273	Thank you. Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76274	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Žagar, here in your presentation you pointed out the decentralisation as one, I said that through the law one small move could be made, one small step forward towards decentralisation that increased this forest contribution, even we could actually remove it from paying the natural persons to remain only for legal purposes only for Croatian forests. An ideal opportunity to increase the budget of small local units to really invest in this rural development of our area that I believe we can all agree here that these local units have very small incomes, unfortunately it wasn't done there. But what's much more important is that we think about a functional decentralisation, which would be the ultimate goal of moving forest management here to the county. Why not? because today we are arguing about where the forest management will be, where certain institutions of the Croatian Forests will be located. Of course, everyone comes from us from a certain area and that everyone will be pushing for that administration to come to his county, to be placed in his city. The key problem, however, remains that central management remains in Zagreb as much as possible for the Croatian forests, the profit goes into the central state budget and we haven't actually done anything. If management were to be at some regional level, then it could certainly have that end of income from these contributions or how compensation would already be known, so from the entire business of that system and then we could really say that we are going towards one real decentralisation. We're not going with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76275	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76276	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Vesligaj, therefore, to clarify once again, to point out, I think that, too, in his replica, Djakic said, "Let the Board of Forests be in Nasice, we don't mind, but we want the Management of the Forest to be in Slatina because it was natural, because it was according to all indicators." So we're not arguing in the sense that we're looking for something political but we're looking for what's economically real. Why is that important for decentralisation? Because there are a lot of laws or regulations that lead us to centralization. The law on public procurement provides that it would be transparent, that there would be no possibility, so that you in the Croatian forests in Slatina cannot buy chemically, but Zagreb has to make public procurement in order to buy 5 chemicals in Slatina. These are the things we need to take care of because it's always about the benefit of the local community. It's the same with this contribution. We and while I was the head of the municipality, Croatian forests tell us that, but we don't know who controls it. People came to me and told me the following story: The forest mass that they cut in your municipality shows that they were cut in the territory of the city of Slatina. I couldn't actually check, here. I don't know, maybe it's the fellow forest that's here, there's a Parliament here, maybe the secretary of state knows, who actually controls the area where that forest mass was cut up and how much it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76277	Thank you very much. Next replica. Mr. Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76278	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, when you spoke in your debate that the Croatian forests, i.e. the Croatian state should provide more raw materials, and you also said somewhat contradictoryly that you saw the logs being exported from Croatia and that you saw them in Vienna. Croatian forests don't export halves, logs. That must be clear for everyone. These same exporting logs are exported by the wood sector that buys those logs whether they are in free sale, whether they export the halves by virtue of the contract. Can the Croatian Forests handle it? No, I don't. Can the state do it? Yeah. And another piece of information I didn't mean because it's the Law on Forests, not the Law on Croatian Forests, as a public enterprise, there's your data, the price list of the provinces, the furniers' logs, the Pilanite logs of Croatian forests, the duchy forests, Serbia, Bosnia, Germany, Hungary, Italy. Do you know where the cheapest part is? 20-30% cheaper than our Croatian forest environment. And this particular wood industry, by the way, needs to be helped, absolutely, to buy the logs cheapest on the cheapest market, on the free market in the environment they don't want to buy anything. And then they also complain to the state and Croatian forests, excuse me, that prices are too high and that they should be reduced. And of those logs, there's funding to grow, protect, generally useful functions that we've now, let's say, reduced, I think that's enough. So we can't have both sheep and money. We have to decide what. And our wood industry, with all due respect to one part, but I think it's more about the primary sector,.../The speaker speaks English./... as we used to call it export without final processing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76279	Excuse me. Time's up. Answer, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76280	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Batinić, you see it's really a serious matter and any word can be misunderstood or here, I accept if I misrepresent myself, then I apologize. Indeed, they cannot do so in the Croatian forest, because Croatian forests provide for all those who provide the necessary documentation a certain amount of wood mass that it has is required. So if someone shows up to make furniture, then they'll give him that wooden mass. Then the problem comes along, and that's what people tell me from that branch where the control is then. Croatian forests don't do that either. Who's supposed to work? Financial agency, IRS, who? Who controls their products? So if someone took so much wood for furniture production, where's their output, where's he, what's he done with that furniture? Is there a warehouse, where is it? These are things to see then because it exists in practice, at least so I know, there are those who get wood mass, that after they resell it to those who miss it because it's cheaper than buying it at auctions. But it certainly does not belong to the Croatian Forests, as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76281	Okay. Next replica. Mrs. Martha Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76282	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I must say that I fully agree with you, and I would particularly refer to the part where you have concluded, and so do I, that this Law is more about using and exploiting the forest and less about protecting them. And that conclusion of yours which also, if we had Croatian forests that make profit, is enormous every year, and we do not even know from this law to determine how many of these benefits to protect and restore further forests. Because the law is contradictory. He says the woods are cut down less than they've grown, right? But we in the law don't see how to control it, if it's really how it's done. Here's a specific example. You have a forest-economic base and these are the 10-year bases by which each year the plan is prescribed. And we do not see, that is, whether there is a cluster and a dried forest in them, because you cut down every year what is dried up and if you cut down what you have planned, do you cut down more or less than growth? That's the question. There is no such thing in this Law and it is not seen at all in this Law. Then specifically, at the protection of the forest. There is no mechanism, a species, that can go into the forest. You know when you cut the woods, tractors when they cut it, they destroy the surrounding trees, not just the ones you know. Also, this mechanism can, old machinery pollute the soil forest. It's not prescribed here at all, nor do I see that by regulation it will be clearly defined which mechanism can even enter the forest. So the general conclusion is that this model and way of managing the forest is not good and in this law we don't have enough elements to protect and take care of the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76283	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76284	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Žagar, you said something in your debate about private forests and the role and importance of private forest owners. I have to admit, I'm one of those, so I have a grandfather and I'll never give it up and I'll leave it to my kids because it was my family on Bilogoria who owned the forest. And this law when I read first I went to read those infringements, so in Article 85, it says that property actually commits what it commits and owns privately in the woods and obliges us to maintain everything else. And now there's this one narrow part and the part that isn't defined to the end, the relationship between private forest owners and the Croatian forest, the way that, so 20% is about private property and you have people who actually use these forests for the economy, but you have people like my family where we have woods in terms of tradition, in terms of grandfatherhood, in terms of where we are because it was one big forest where the seven grandchildren inherited us, and now there are different situations and different topics and I think that should also be taken into account in the law a little bit. We're these little forest owners and we're taking care of that forest of ours, I have to admit that even a little bit of water count someone else, so when we get here, we're surprised that there's no or no in the woods, but that's something else. And it would be good if in the Law of the Forests this relationship, not only when people use it as forest owners for economics, but there are a lot of cases like my case and it would be good to have a little more detail in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76285	Thank you, too. Mrs Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76286	Your Honor, Vice President. Here, Mr. Sagar, you mentioned in your debate that this compensation for the common useful functions of the forest is lifted, for small entrepreneurs who make up to 3 million and that is certainly commendable. I come from a region which, for example, from a forest contribution as a city has only 794 kuna in 2017. Last year we had 184 as a city, so we are not a forest-like area, but there are areas in Croatia that significantly generate much higher revenues, here are cities per wheel of up to a million and a half kuna and more and certainly have to use it in the way that should be used, how the law prescribes and all that is published by decisions. However, I also have a connection with Lika, so then I know what it means to the forest there, how much it means to these people to live on and a lot of people are employed there, and I personally think that it really needs to be like the lungs of Croatia. Personally, I would like the masters to be more quality in the sense that they really care that there is not so much garbage I would say in the woods, in the sense that even when the tree falls and the rest is being cleansed and that it can be used and that citizens can take it and use it for the needs they need. What's still in the law which points me to this, I won't get there, it's about young people who intervene in the law in terms of urban forestry, nature protection and the environment that is here, and I'm going to add here in another replica, which is not mentioned here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76287	Thank you. And finally Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Žagar, I have listened to your exposure and what is crucial, what you have said is, and with which I agree, there is no strategy of managing Croatian forests, or connecting with other parts of the economy, primarily creating new, larger added value. Croatia has turned into a huge sawmill where it turns out that only a log can be drunk and export boards. Our wood industry, better said the furniture industry that used to be among the strongest in Europe, in the former state, it hardly exists now. So please tell me, why do these laws, or their processing, processing, alteration, if we don't have such strategies? If we don't know how one of Croatia's largest natural resources and these are forests, that's the mass, that's a noble tree, if we don't know how to create more expensive or more added value to sell to the world? Is that an accident or is it actually a strategy that there is no strategy? With this little game of words, maybe I'm talking enough and saying what I need to say. And the second question, why again in this law, do you remember that 5, 6 months ago I suggested free picking of forest fruits, here again in these amendments to the law remains in force that our citizens are banned from the practical collection of fruits, mushrooms, asparagus, wild fruit, etc. And you said you didn't have to make this much of a profit, but I agree, they have to come true, but we don't know where it's going, what does this all look like?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76289	Answer, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76290	Dear colleague Lovrinović. One of the world's greatest mathematicians, I don't know his last name, was supposed to get a prestigious prize, I think it's two million dollars and that day, when he lives with his mother from her pension, the money doesn't interest him, when he should go for the prize then he's justified, he didn't want to take the prize, but that day he said he was going to pick mushrooms in the woods so there's no time. Reading mushrooms or what the forest fruits say is also part of tradition and I think we should work on it. And as far as the strategy is concerned, maybe we should make that clear and admit it to ourselves. All our systems, our health system education system, here and forestry, so you know all this rests on enthusiasm and the work of hardworking people, hardworking teachers, hardworking doctors, nurses medical, staff even housewives at school, here's a carnivorous, lugary if they start acting the way we all are now propagating, so we're saying that the market is sacred, we're not. If each teacher started to act like that, then a luggard, then a doctor, and if he didn't want to treat a man, then his system wouldn't predict it at all. We need to get serious, make strategies, make plans so people know which way we're going. Here's what I'm going to do for an example of education, because I come from that area. I mean... the Croatian National Education Standard, so we had a mantra knowledge society, so we're in schools with various experimental and now the strategy makes it difficult, and people just need to be able to do what they know and give them clear instructions, and when you give them clear instructions, that's the strategy in which they're going to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76291	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas, and now Mr. Damir Felak will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, Mr. Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76292	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I welcome you. I also welcome the Secretary of State, Mr. Krajnick, Assistant Minister Francetic, all colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for the Law on Forests, we have already had the opportunity to hear a lot of debates, one part of these discussions is not directly related to the Law on Forests, but that is how it is discussed in this Croatian Assembly and ultimately it is not bad to open some topics that do not concern the very direct law. I would talk about the law first of all, on the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, as stated at the very beginning of those opening provisions, that is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia Article 2(2), which states "the Croatian Parliament or the people directly, acting independently in accordance with the Constitution and the law on the preservation of and use of natural and cultural wealth". I think it would be useful in this introductory section to specify the provisions of Article 52 which directly concern the forest and forest land on which this item was quoted by Mr. Sagar, so I won't repeat it here. Furthermore, the Forest Act is a fundamental act in the area of forestry which regulates the cultivation, protection, use and availability of forest and forest land as a natural wealth, with the aim of maintaining biodiversity and ensuring forest management on the principles of economic sustainability of social responsibility and environmental acceptability. This law seeks to achieve a long-term legal framework for the achievement of the optimal measure between forest management on the one hand and forest protection on the other hand, all aimed at delivering raw materials to the wood industry and the population and rural development as a strategic need, given demographic developments in our country. Since the adoption of the last Law on Forests in 2005, more amendments have been made and the addition of the law has also been intervened by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in some articles, the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service has also been amended, and a new Law on the Agriculture and Forestry Advisory Service has been adopted in the meantime. This new law amends or supplements more than half of the existing law and requires the adoption of a new forest law. This bill regulates the principles under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia manages forests and forest land in the interests of the Republic of Croatia according to the principle of public, predictability, the principle of effectiveness and the principle of accountability. All of this is essentially contained in the principle of sustainable management of natural resources. Forests are by water our most significant natural resource, forests and forest land are a special natural wealth which is managed in a sustainable and environmentally acceptable way. This law provides for the establishment of a register of the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia to be conducted in electronic form. It is a desire to establish such a register to generate savings, to facilitate access to all interested, data, information on the entire management area of forestry. The register should also contribute to better control of the traceability of transport and wood products, which we recently passed a law adapting to EU regulations. The law in Article 14 provides for the definition of forest owners and the division of private forest owners into small, medium and large, which is new compared to the existing law. I believe that the objective of this article and these divisions is to provide additional assistance to small and medium-sized forest owners by releasing certain costs or actions in other legal ways. And all of this should result in such a way as to enable the protection and survival of small and medium-sized forest owners, while raising the quality of forests which they master or which are owned by them, because we need to know that today the forests are owned by small, medium-sized forest owners in much worse shape than the forests which are dominated by the state. Real estate legal relations in the possession of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia are governed by this law and comply with the basic rules in the area of availability and management of state assets, areas of strategic investment projects, areas of environmental protection and nature, as well as areas of spatial planning. This is arranged and simplified in a way that gives an opinion on spatial plans by the ministry a prerequisite for the separation of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are spatial plans covering a building area or a separate building area. The process of establishing the right of service and the right to build on forests and forest land for the purpose of building infrastructure has also been brought together, the process of detaching individual forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and the forest-economic area for agricultural purposes, also allows for the reverse process of including agricultural areas which are in the nature of forests in the forest-economic areas, i.e. the forest-economic base. This would respect the real situation in space and clearly, and one and the other process cannot be carried out without the agreement of the agricultural and forestry profession. I'd say a few words about compensation for other useful forest functions, so-called. OkFŠ, it is detained at the current level with a rate of 0.0265% on total income of legal and natural persons carrying out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, the change is in the works so that the fee would not be paid by companies with a total income of less than 3 million kuna. Recommendations on the compensation for the OCFŠ are constantly accessible and clearly there are demands from economic operators who look at their interest and believe that, in the latter case, some kind of parafiscal charge, even if I agree entirely with the State Secretary's opening explanation that it is not all other than that, and I will also say why. And I think it prevailed here and this quite justified thinking that this fee is necessary in order to manage forests and forest land in karst areas, to forest, to carry out breeding work, to build and maintain fire-fighting averages, to generally co-finance the fire system, to cover the cost of recovery of kalamite in the economic forests, to finance demining forests and forest land, to finance scientific research in the area of forestry and ecosystems that have a practical application in the protection of forests. And here on this point, I will only quote the final sentence from the memos sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by all relevant institutions dealing with forestry, starting with the Academy through colleges, institutes, forestry chambers, forestry societies. So they are appealing not to reduce the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest because it has already been reduced twice, and there we have found justification in the economic and economic state of the state that it is necessary to relieve the economy but since we have left the recession, I think there is no reason for this fee to be reduced already we should think that we are potentially increasing it because I say, it is precisely known what this fee is used for. Here's an example of how 48 million kunas were invested last year only in demining forests and forest surfaces and there's still a lot of forests and forest surfaces that aren't demining and the resources are certainly needed days to speak for everything else. But I say, here, I will only quote the last sentence of this letter sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia: "We appeal that you do not allow a reduction or even a suspension of the compensation for the KEFŠ because such a measure would have a negative impact on the overall ecosystem and the population and in the long term also on the economy. Why bring down a well-designed and functional system that has a clear goal? In this case, the state will need to find new sources of financing of the above-mentioned needs for its forests, which the Constitution also found to have its special protection." I have already stated that all in the signature of this memo. And yet around the OKFSH, there were different questions here, so one question was, what was the amount of that BOX. When the rate was 0.07%, I think the largest amount collected annually was just over 500 million kuna. These sources co-financed all of this. We came today, let the assistant minister correct me afterwards, to some amount of 120 to 140 million kuna, depending on the effectiveness of the bill, etc. These are just too little resources to make all of this count, which should be financed from that fee more if we know that under the current Regulation almost half the demining, fire system and scientific research. So only 50, maybe 60% of these funds are used for the management of forests on karst or for works on these forests and relatively percentages of the share of state property and private forest properties are allocated and this remaining share, means that through that part of the OkFŠ and the forest owners get, here is the 80-20 that the relationship but is no longer such a relationship, the relationship is now 75 to 25, so around 1/4 of the forest in Croatia is owned or not owned by the state. And by that percentage, the OCFSH is also deployed. I don't want to talk about OKFSH anymore, if there's going to be a chance in the replicas I'm going to say some more things. The public debate showed great interest in this law, which is not even strange because there were a large number of proposals and objections to the law from which the ministry adopted part, which shows that both the nature, the forest and our environment are of great concern. It is said here about the Croatian forests, some things Mr Batinić explained in his replica as to, say, the exports of the troops themselves, that Croatian forests do not export any cubic logs. The troupes are dealt with, or exported by those who buy logs from the Croatian forests, which is the wood industry. I'll go back to this, but I'd say one thing about employees of the Croatian Forests, workers of the cutlers, forest workers, and a little bit of that, and Mr. Sagar, we need to know that the job of the chopper workers at this point is the hardest job in the Republic. We have no more mines, we have no miners, this is physically the most demanding job in the Republic of Croatia, and it should be adequately rewarded and rewarded, because teaching these people together are forest technicians and forest engineers, meaning it was in Croatian forests and -15, when we were in the warm here in the assembly and the vast majority of the people working in the economy were somewhere where different conditions were, and the main season is cut for Croatian forests, or generally in forestry and private forest is from 01.10 to 31 March. So, at the worst of times. But it is clearly cut where the regulations are allowed and in the other part of the year, so that the criticisms that go to the account of the Croatian forests are partly justified, but they are not, in part, safe because Croatian forests are not only designed for the cutting of forests, however, it is a sort of side role for you, but rather for them to grow and restore, to maintain the forest system in this form as it is now, but also to improve it. I can't tell you everything, but a national forest strategy has been mentioned. She exists. I don't know, all those who said there was no national forest strategy, there was a national forest policy and strategy, it was brought in 17th of July 2003. She's not, she should certainly be redefined and renewed, but she exists as such. As something will be cut, counterpart Marta Luc-Polanc talked about it, as it is cut, what kind of machinery goes into the woods, etc., so she's a lawyer and she's working in the Croatian forests, and I think she should know that it's better to let the foresters define it because it's being studied at the Forest College, from the direction of the shooting, from the direction of the train, and all in order to protect the forest floor and the forest itself, because, as we say, 95% of it, we restore our forests naturally, and that's how it is done as little damage to that young plant that grows out of the ground when we shoot down, when we extract the wood mass. And one more thing I'm going to give you to think about, I'm not going to be able to say everything that I've planned here, if we plant or put in the country of the jury today, let's know that some generation, if there's not a big climate change happening in 140 years, that oak will cut down. Then he will be full of maturity and will make the greatest contribution in the economic part of the tree. So 140 years. What we're cutting off today's mostly oak income was planted 140 years ago or raised. We take care of that when we talk about forests and I hope, here, that the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76293	Thank you. Six replicas. First, Mr. Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76294	Thank you. Your esteemed colleague, Felak, you spoke about ownership in your discussion, you spoke about spatial plans and about the forest-economic base, and I will return to the topic I spoke about yesterday, and how we are together members of the Committee on Agriculture. In fact, this Law does not solve a problem that has been present for more than 20 years, starting in the early 1990s, and as far as land ownership status is concerned, where litigation with coastal municipalities and cities where the state says it is state-owned, local self-government units consider it to be their property because it was covered by spatial-planned documentation and was within the boundaries of the construction land. I speak on behalf of all coastal cities, but I will tell you that there are no fewer or less cases in the Istrian county than 200 court disputes. With litigation, we're holding off on investment. With the braking of investments, there are no new jobs. With the suspension of investments and no new jobs, there are no new revenues for either the state or local self-government units. As I asked a question yesterday on the board, I'm asking all of us today. When and how will we be aware of these situations and finally take responsibility for solving the current problem? We haven't solved it in our first reading of the State Property Act, and we're not doing it by this Law either. In 20 years, some new generations that will sit in the Croatian Parliament will unfortunately talk the same about this topic... Thank you. [[The speakers speak out loud. You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76295	Here you go. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76296	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Sponza, I fully agree with you and I think this is certainly a major problem which as you and the committee have said is not so expressed in the continental part of the Republic, although there is one, but it is certainly of much greater importance on the coastal part of the Republic and I can only join your appeal to approach this. This Law, as you are told on the Committee, is difficult to resolve, and the existing Law allows such land to be isolated from the forest-economic base, but then there is a property problem, and this property problem cannot be solved by the Law on Forests. But I think that, in any case, we should go with this initiative to those ministries that can solve it, and it's a shame that the land is not being used properly, and I think that such land should be left to the units of local self-government. I was the head of a local self-government unit in one period, and we met, not as much of a problem as with you, but we had problems from the unacquainted cemetery, which were read on the Republic of Croatia, up to some of the particles that were within the building area and that we thought we had a right to them as a municipality, but because of certain restrictions they did not, or, very difficult to separate from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia. I think that this process should simplify and allow municipalities, cities, to dispose of such land, clearly along certain fences, not to be abused, and that would be much more functional for the whole country. I can only join your appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76297	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mrs. Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76298	Thank you, Vice President. In this law, a colleague, Felak, dominated a public debate and, therefore, drew attention. It is a provision relating to the period of 5 years in the case of the reuse of the burned surface, the forest surface. The Croatian Forest Society and the Croatian Forest Institute and the Croatian Association of Private Forest Owners were declared on this subject. I'm interested in your position as an expert on this subject, since I know you're just these professions. I'm interested in your position at all on the existence of a deadline. First it was going to be 5 years and then 10 years and then we met somewhere at 7. Is that deadline really enough, whether there should be a deadline? And I want to know what you think if we're going to do with this clear deadline, prevent any abuses that clearly exist and threaten to escalate, say the abuse of forest land which, therefore, is burned and which, obviously, will, through a certain deadline, become, experience a premeditation. And we can all imagine what that repurpose is going to apply to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76299	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76300	I thank my colleagues, Jeckov, for asking. So I'll take my thinking out, I agree with you, is it very questionable, is it necessary to set a deadline at all? Also, I don't think we can generally say that some surface, if it is now burned that it will never be used in the future for anything but the forest. Or most of it is, let's be honest with each other, degraded forest forms, so these are higher forest land in some kind of developmental form of forest. And we know that fires are cornered. Event on karst terrain, it's hard to expect these to ever be economic forests. But I'm generally in a position not to be allowed, except for some great explanation of the premeditation of forest land in any other way, whether in 5, 7 or 10 years, but in fact, that, in cooperation with the profession, again and again, we should make noise and return to the forest for a short period of time. And clearly, try now, if we have a chance, to bring in those species that might be best suited to develop in that area and get as much quality as possible, if not the economic forest, and then the protection forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76301	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I've been following your debate, and, of course, on the board, we've talked about it, I'd like to say a few words about Okfeša himself, which, I don't know, I don't know what times I'm talking about but I'm saying it out of my personal conviction. And I don't agree that there's been a reduction in this OKFEŠA, and it's basically due to the political fact that I say the basics, where we are, and we know that just over the past few years in the Croatian forests we've had somewhere around 580 million OKFŠ, but here, through all these years, it's been reduced, assuming that it's been said here many times parafiscal intrusion. I don't agree that it's a parafiscal imposition. because we know very well what it is and what exactly these funds are for OKFEŠ use in Croatian forests and I am sure that those entrepreneurs in Croatia especially those who are smaller entrepreneurs and especially those who are engaged in the wood industry, for them it was not a great cost, but it was the pressure of large companies that are developing and doing their activities in Croatia. And that's how the OKFŠ was reduced. Why? I don't think it's good? Because I also know that by reducing OKFŠ in Croatian forests, certain problems are created that will not solve certain things that have been solved so far. I only see that solution, and that solution will be the pressure on domestic wood production processing activities, which will sow funds precisely from the needs used by the BOXS will be the only one forced to raise the prices of our wood industry, which I'm sure is not good. And that's why we're always embarrassing and saying, 580 million, we met at 120 million, which is certainly not good for the development of the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76303	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76304	I thank my colleague Lucic for this comment and in some ways a question. In my opening presentation, I also said a lot about compensation for other beneficial forest functions and that I think it is absolutely necessary and that it should consider returning to some levels that have been before, especially if the economy will continue to develop in a positive direction. And I think it will, because we just have to make people aware that it's not some kind of imposition that's put on them, but by simply, with all of this being financed, we're making it easier to pay for some of the other useful functions of the forest, which are produced, which the forests are given to mean protection from erosion, protection from climate change, there are 9 points there, numbered that these are other useful functions of the forest, and we all just have to become aware when we talk a lot about ecology and all of it, so it's all contained in these other useful functions of the forest. The fact is that what you said, if the revenue for the management of the forests on karst, first of all, would have to be reached in the original revenues of the Croatian forests, in order to have as much ownership as possible in these areas, and I do not think it would be in the least correct because the original revenues are made primarily in the continental part of the Republic, it would not be correct for the Slavonian oak to pay for the construction of forest averages, i.e. fire averages in the coastal area. Therefore, it is often said here about the forest contribution that some small compensation to the local environment, I think it would not be correct to do so from the basic income of Croatian forests, but from this fee from the OkFŠ which is now present.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76305	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76306	Dear colleague Felak, here I will look back on this part that you have spoken to in the woods, and I, as it comes from the coast, then we also don't have the forest as you do in Slavonia, but we have pine forest and maquis and everything else, but we have to do the best we can and surely this legal change in art. 51st, which actually allows for these areas and tourism to be sought, what counterpart Sponza mentioned, therefore, some new steps, and then also seeks golf tourism and mini-golf etc. and in the legislation so far, it was very difficult to implement, and in my area there are exactly these forests owned by the Croatian forest and where many investments have been blocked precisely because of the fact that it was not so easy to obtain documentation, all the permits and everything else that would further improve the tourist offer and what would then open both jobs and everything else. So surely this way and with these changes will greatly help to make some changes and steps happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76307	Here you go. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76308	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Peric. Here, I fully agree here with you and when we say golf, then the code we said I don't know, the black devil showed up in Croatia. We're talking about golf courses, I remember there in the late '90s I was in local self-government, then we were talking about building some 100 golf courses in the entire Republic of Croatia. I'm asking you how many golf courses have been built up to this day in the Republic of Croatia? And that's what golf was all about in this Assembly Hall, I guess one month, sure, if they'd put it all together, if not more. And I think we have built or only half of the golf course in the Republic to date because of all of this. We just need to be afraid of some prejudice or, you know, talk about lobbyes, this, that. If we want to be a tourist country, then in our tourist offer we must have golf courses. It's inevitable because it has all the countries around it. We need to get to these golf courses in a way that it's an interest and local self-government and state and clearly, the entrepreneur who invests in it. The state institutions and Croatian forests and the Croatian state, which ultimately owns forests and forest land, and not Croatian forests, and this Law is just simplifying the way something can be set aside for tourism purposes, for the purposes of campsites and golf courses, but under certain conditions. So no one can be cut off because this golf course building, I know that all the apartmentizations, it should be very clearly prescribed in a way that can build golf courses from which the land can be isolated, but we mustn't ban it and be afraid of that code is that, I don't know, something so terrible and something that will do some big damage. On the contrary, as you said, just such projects could create new jobs and help us not to let people leave this country, but to stay working here in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76309	Thank you very much. They crucified this House when he passed that Law. And me who voted against, but I was inside. Seventy golf courses were supposed to be in Istria, I'm sorry, but I have to say that. You know, you just said 100 playgrounds, right? They've shrunk to 1 by now, after 10 years. Let's move on with the replicas. Mr. Young Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76310	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Felak, since I know that you are these professions and that you well-known matter regarding the forest, so just a few questions. What you're thinking about, we're all talking about decentralisation of assets, which is why we wouldn't leave the management of forests to units of local and regional self-government, and at the same time, since we're coming from the end of Podravina and Bilogor, which is a rich end to forest and individual units of local self-government in their income have a pretty big income from forest contributions. So I'm asking you that who practically controls the payment of this forest contribution to local self-government units because at the same time you said that the extraction of wood and work in the forest is in the autumn and working spring when there are a lot of bad climate conditions and there is a lot of damage to the unclassified roads owned by units of local self-government and that ultimately have to finance all these roads on their cost. And that's why I'm saying that more attention and control may need to be exercised over the payment of a forest contribution that is the income of a local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76311	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76312	Comrade Mader, you've listed here a problem of forest contribution control, I don't think he exists. There is very clear, there is a very clear system in the Croatian forests and it is paid according to which catastrian municipality there is a particular section or section in which the cutting is carried out and I don't think there should be any need to be afraid of it being cut off unless perhaps if some mistake occurred but it can be something controversial. As far as the roads are concerned, I agree with you that it is possible to talk about that forest contribution being larger, there we have already had the intensity and so far for that but you must know that we are rich in forest, but not every forest is as valuable. It's not the same valuable spa pool and noise on, say, a slightly worse terrain, because they cut in such forests don't even carry the approximate income they imagine, but there are a lot of cuttings that aren't economically justified but because of the rules of the management they're doing so that they're not so big profits. You also know very well that a good part of these roads run by local self-government units have once built forests for their own needs and then left them to operate because it was the law. As far as I know, today all the administrations of the forest are resuscitating after cutting the road, I agree with you that it is not enough and that this forest contribution could be even bigger in that area, but I think there is cooperation in most local self-government units between local forests and municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76313	Last line, Mr. Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76314	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a reference to my colleague, Felak, a little bit more about the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest, or for our famous OKFŠ, and often it tends to be a parafiscal imposition, I don't think we often go in the wrong direction when we talk about the charge, amounts, I don't think even here is a problem in that amount, or in the financial amount that is, we have to say a little more than 250 kuna per million kuna of income, or if we look at these 3 million kunas that are released according to this bill, that's about 800 and some kuna, let's say a TV subscription paid by each household. What is important, I think, is a matter of public perception and, in fact, of the lack of citizenship education, for which all these OkFŠ are used for the general useful functions of the forest and, in general, for the very general useful functions of the forest. And Col. Dobrović was just talking about forests as carbon sinks or the fact that one cubic meter of wood binds a ton of carbon dioxide and I would take advantage of the opportunity to read the schedule for the KEFŠ fee. According to the Act or the Regulation for the same, which clearly states that 30% of the funds are used for demining forests and forest land, 5% goes to the fire community, scientific works in the area of forestry 5% of resources while the remaining amount is distributed in proportion to the forest and forest areas in the Croatian forests, colleges, advisory services and the like. That is why I think it is necessary for all of us, starting with the ministry, to start with the forest professions and all the stakeholders that are in that system, to bring the value and purpose of the compensation and the KEFSH itself into practice through education, and then we will no longer have this kind of debate whether it is compulsory or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76315	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76316	I would like to thank my colleague, Lipošak. Well, here, I agree with everything you've said, about this fee for OKFŠ I've talked a lot, there's a lot of colleagues before that and I think this is exactly what people need as much to know about what it's used for. To try to say even more plastic, Croatian forests like those which run forests and forest land on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, lords not only of economic forests, we must understand this, but a far larger area than a million hectares are forests, let's call it forests, but they are degraded forms of forests that carry no income and are huge areas on the cross, coastal part, a roundabout area that requires the cost of management and does not bear such an income, except for some revenue very small from the exploitation of wood material or some parallel forest products I don't know, in Istria, if some truffle is charged, or the right to seek and harvest a truffle or something like that, but these are negligible revenues and that is almost half of Croatia, which is the very cost of the KEFŠ is directed at the management of such areas, I hope that this Assembly will achieve and that the larger consensus remains in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76317	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Milorad Batinic is in front of the Club of HNS Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76318	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. My colleagues and colleagues, there is a whole new Forest Act ahead, which was also some logical sequence after a series of changes and additions and what I can say in principle, we will support in the first reading, we will present certain thoughts, certain suggestions, suggestions, I believe that, since it is to the greatest extent of the profession, that they will be respected. What might be a problem for some in reading is that this law provides a framework, and the practices that are practical in nature that are in practice defined by sublaws. In previous old forest laws that were far more extensive with far more articles, some things were defined precisely which I do not think is necessary. The law is in line with other laws that tang similar areas and that is the basis for it to be accepted. I'm going to take the secretary of state and the assistant to tax through some questions that I'm sure I'm going to get answers and certain suggestions. First of all, when it comes to forest and forest land, we need to be aware that I personally needed a little more attention, a greater accent on forest land protection because if there is no forest land, there is no forest. Here I refer you to the provisions of the law, the articles of the Law on Agricultural Land where they define, only to suggest that certain restrictions on the abuse of the use of agricultural land be revised. I believe there's space. I also have a few dilemmas about the new term forest owner, public forest owner, that's clear to me. The forest owners know there's been a lot of returns. They used to be private forest owners. I primarily mean hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens who own their own forest. And now I can understand if you're thinking in that direction forest owner means you don't necessarily own a granite owner. From the aspect of forest management and what was the intensity and foresters and when we were building the first foundations of the management of the private forests of the 1990s to try forest owners within the economic unit not, but within the department as basic units of management more covered them and a unique approach to them. Is that it? I can be a forest owner, I have a contract with 100 forest owners who gave me a mandate. In what way, what does it mean, formally-lawly, that in their name for their account I rule with that forest. As a forester, he would certainly consider it because for all private forests, basics of management or programmes for the management of private forests are necessary. Maybe like an idea of thinking. I'm looking as a foresteer would be much simpler and I believe far more quality management of private-owned forest complexes. I also specifically asked the board about the question of tree identification, as we used to call it. The mark of the trees of the law says that they can work undergraduate, graduate or integral university studies. In this debate, too, I will express a certain fence on whether it is necessary in the law, perhaps, or whether it will be defined by a rule which can be used to mark the cutting trees. And if we're already going that way then I would suggest for practical reasons like we have a case of icy in the Gorski kotar, or we have winds, that forest technicians can do that, because it's, it's not, so it doesn't take too much expertise to mark those trees for cutting. As far as guarding forests is concerned, the same specific thinking especially in the area when it comes to the protection of forests by organised protection of forest forest owners. And now I'm talking, so that forest owner, the forest owner. The forest is private property, having the view of the Constitution as well as grace, but also binding. Croatian forests pay for their cost to protect the forest themselves. Every forest owner should be responsible for his expenses and care, it's his obligation to keep his property. It's co-financed by part of the advisory service, maybe in which part and how. In this area, I have a big dilemma about waste from the woods. I believe that you are in line with the Waste Act and the regulation that defines that waste from the forest here in a law that is unauthorized by someone deposited in the woods and it must practically be taken care of at the end of the task of the unit of local self-government. I don't think that's a good solution, I'm speaking from long-term forest practice. And I'm saying, that's where I'd like you to try to find out in the Waste Act itself and the Waste Regulation, to offer some other solution. Croatian forests will clean it themselves and settle their costs. Private forest owners or forest owners have the responsibility as property owners to take care of it. As far as the O.C.F.F.S. is concerned, there's been a lot of words. I think this story is supposed to be locked down for further reduction, and I'm going to try and talk a little bit more about it. Article 4 if we read the Law on Forests and I am primarily an advocate of integrated forest management although in historical times we had different approaches, different organisational forms because I see the forest as a unique eco system. And when you look at what are generally useful forest functions, soil protection from erosion, streams, floods, influence on water regimes, water quality, impact on soil fertility and agricultural production, climate impact, climate mitigation. There's still. I'll stop there. And now that the article that defines OKFŠ is funded by everything from it, I think it is also about the interest of the economy and about partial co-financing, it means from the other papers financed from the OkFŠ that in this situation there should be a measure. In fact, Article 4 of carefully fellow Members and colleagues, please, first of all when it comes to the function of the forest are generally useful forest functions, and under point 2 of the economic function of the forest, I think it is the only correct way for us as a society, as a state as a citizen to see this law, and that only says how we have to view the forest as an immeasurable resource, is that it is renewable in terms of wood mass, but very slowly renewable if we destroy the habitat, if we destroy the forest floor or if we disrupt the eco system. As far as the general services of the forest are concerned, another reason why I do not think it should go down, is the challenge that awaits us in which we foresters have been facing each other for decades, is now perhaps one stage where it is much more pronounced, and this is the impact of climate change on forests, forest management, on the development of a management programme or forest economic basis, in which way they will manage the forests themselves in the future. Therefore, all those who discuss the production of wood forest products or logs or shemetics, etc. It's a side forest product. The carbon sink, the production of oxygen, it must be in our focus and it's imperative. If we look at the woods and treat them only as the production of halves, logs, heated wood, then we are wrong. There are calculations when compared and financially materially which benefits from wood products, which is the benefit of that and the figures show exactly that production, in fact profit, benefits from wood products are very, very low compared to what I'm talking about. There are also some illogicalities and one suggestion, namely Article 13. The law on the financing of the water economy which says that water compensation, i.e. the compensation for the treatment of water pays on all real estate except agricultural land. Of course, I'm taking the crime scene and we missed one thing in the debate, but I believe we're on a good track to make it right. When you look at what are generally useful forest functions, influence on the water regime, water quality, soil protection from erosion, streams and floods, forests are water tanks. 22 million as far as I can see from the assessment of Croatian forests pay for the area of the forest water compensation to Croatian waters. My colleagues and colleagues, isn't that absurd, isn't that absurd? Not since yesterday. Why not those 22 million kunas of Croatian forest to invest in the KEFŠ Fund? Here's a suggestion. Now it's no longer within one ministry, now the water economy belongs to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It might be simpler when it was under one ministry. Furthermore, what I would like to suggest to all of us to give support to the initiative, it is primarily that in law from this part of what I am saying is what is the importance of the common useful functions of the forest to finally after a century as it was the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of Forestry, the mining or which have already been named through the centuries back were to finally return to the name of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. I believe that this is the first step to give forests as a renewable natural resource by some not exhaustive, although there is a large questionnaire to give already meaning. Of course we have an academic community initiative, five from the academy, from the forest academy, forestry society, chambers and ultimately Croatian forests to support this initiative. But I am also that this initiative is supported, and if I have to sign it myself, but I would also like to give you some thought where, as a carrier, you should be initiators and holders of certain agricultural land activities, respecting the great importance and agricultural production that we, paraphrasing the country, feed us, but without the forest, we have no water, we have no oxygen we can't breathe. In the context of whether agricultural emissions or some others try to work on the popularity of forestry, the importance of forests, education, especially as regards this part of several hundred thousand private forest owners how to master their forest, there have been some attempts, it was at the time of the establishment of the Advisory Forest Service as far as I think it is not easy to agree, but I think that in this direction we should think far better because we are faced with challenges and the emergence of new pests. We have in the case of the Gorski kotar after the windfall, the wind drains have come, secondary pests have been caught, we have challenges on the oak of the watermelon, I think it would be necessary for all citizens as much as they are directly connected to the forest or not to work on education, to develop consciousness precisely with the ultimate goal of the general useful functions to deepen even more what is important and how important the forests are to us. The HNS Club will support it in its first reading, I believe that you will consider these reflections and until the second reading, I believe that we will also be perhaps this initiative and live because as far as I know, I think, in the ministry itself and in the forest circles, that I will not be alone in this request to move forward with the first step of renaming the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76319	Thank you, too. We also welcome the second group composed of 40 students and students with their teachers of the School of Economics and Bureau Engineering from Bjelovar, another round of applause for Bjelovar. And let's go quickly with the replicas. [[Applause]] He knows Mr. Batinic why quickly, Mr. Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76320	Thank you, Vice President. I will continue my replicas on land status, litigation and suspension of investments, not opening new jobs and giving up new revenues. Since you had the opportunity to listen to me on the board yesterday, and in the previous two replicas I would extend this topic to both strategic projects and to eu projects in the context that we are not defined legal status in relation to ownership of the land in realisation and implementation of eu projects. The European bureaucracy is still more rigid and slower than ours, with much more precise and clear rules that define both sanctions and penalties as for state bodies, as well as for local self-government units. What concerns me specifically is this: I thank the Assistant Minister for saying yesterday on the board that the status of ownership of this law determines because that is also the answer, but what I am concerned about we had in the debate, we adopted the Agricultural Land Act where the issue in terms of ownership has not been defined and determined and we have not solved that problem, this law does not solve it. And we had in our first reading the Law on State Property which has not yet come into the second reading and what I am subsequently afraid that when the Law on State Property is found in the second reading will be an excuse of these two previous laws that we cannot continue to solve the problem that lasts longer than 20 years. We push the problem under the carpet, we don't solve the problems, we're full of mouth investments, and from investments and new jobs nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76321	Thank you very much. Mr. Batinic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76322	Thank you very much. Comrade Sponza, you point out one problem that I believe is that you are not the only one in the Republic of Croatia whether it is the Croatian forests, whether it is someone else, but you are ultimately the weight of the problem. I believe that the ministry will offer certain solutions based on this law, I was reading the law and after yesterday's session there is a possibility through certain articles, but there is that part of the property relationship, part of Article 51, I believe that a solution should be found, although first reading the Law on State Property Management is also saying if the land gives agricultural land, whether forest-defined spatial-planned documentation as a potential building solution. Now, if we go back to the 1990s, why the DORH warranted the state by intruding everything that was disputed or by JLS enrolling I think we're going to spin around and we're not going to solve anything. I believe that in the second reading of the Law on Management that this is the right way to try and in the second reading point to this problem, as well as knowing the situation within the Croatian forests as public enterprises, there is no doubt, there is no dilemma, so Croatian forests never have legal arguments prevented him from doing so. I believe that through this part of the eighth property relations, it would be an appeal to the assistant and secretary of state to investigate whether there is a possibility that this part would somehow be installed with that part that the Law on State Property Management, though in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76323	Thank you very much. The second line has Mr. Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76324	Dear fellow Batinic. At first, let me just say that I absolutely support this initiative that came a few days ago, but which is constantly stretching among the forest profession to return to the Ministry's name the word forestry because forestry had its place in all ministries starting in 1919 and earlier until 2012 when the word was thrown out of the name of any ministry. That's where I absolutely support you, but also those who usually keep that initiative going. I'd like to ask you something specific about how you think. We have a particular problem, and that's what you were saying about forest owners, private forest owners, that today we have a lot of wooden material from such forests to so-called. The gray or black market, and one of the main reasons is that people do not have arranged grants and can therefore not get the ownership list and then cannot ask if they want to, cannot ask the advisory service to go out on the ground, perform a signal and that they can cut down such wood material and then later receive an escort for that wood material. Could it not be found now that we are going with the words of the forestowners that maybe a copy of the catastrophe would be enough because I mean it would still come up to prevent a lot of gray market and a lot of material that is found objectively in traffic, and which we don't think would help these people, we should clearly enable them to register their property as soon and properly as possible in land books, then it would be much easier for everyone, but we know what a real situation on the ground is, so here's a concrete question about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76325	Answer. Mr. Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76326	Thank you. Comrade Felak, ownership is a constitutional category. I'll repeat what I said, she's a grace, but property is bound. So it is an obligation for every Croatian citizen to resolve the issue of his property. Is it possible through this Law, in a way, that I've given one thought, a dilemma, whether it's a language, a forest, a private forest, a forest owner, a owner, means that it can't be a forest owner if it doesn't own 1/1? But the intensity if, just for the sake of mastering the larger forest complexes of private forest owners, I absolutely support it. And I think that's a good way to do it. Whether it will be possible to force or direct private forest owners to resolve their property-legal relations, I believe so. But I'm saying, I think it's mostly the law that makes it difficult to regulate, simply impossible, but I note, that the obligation of each of us who owns any kind of property, land, is to solve for himself. I'd still use this part. Of course, as far as this part of the forest is concerned, it has to be sublegal acts far more precise to define what, how, in what way, but here, I don't know if I'm on the lookout for the proposing, but I think that's a good direction. Because if you want to successfully master, I remember, we've been doing economic bases for private forests by particle. It's against forest practice. So you have to have a complex, you understand that, but this is what I'm saying for the other colleagues to try to figure out what this is about. So far more quality, simpler, cheaper owners themselves to approach it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76327	Next replica. Mr. Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76328	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I'll listen to you and I'll try to speed up the replica. Dear fellow Batinić, therefore, that we fully understand each other, I agree with you that it is not our primary goal and we must not look at the forest as a source of wood mass that we will use for cutting and later on for economic activities. However, there is a difference between the way this wood mass is used and not only this Ministry, but all ministries must be involved. That truth, it also includes this Directorate of Forestry has already issued concrete tables where you can see who makes the final product and who doesn't. The wood processing industry employs a third of the workers in general in the overall processing industry. We have almost 50,000 workers in the woodworking industry in forestry and crafts. In the past few years, significant exports of our products have increased, so even a third of the exports of domestic producers have increased on the German market. What is very important with these processors should be made possible as much added value as possible. So, they need to be enabled through various incentive measures and through solving these, let's say conditional smuggling, that they are really making a final product, which is furniture because the wages in the woodworking sector are relatively low, about 3500 kuna is a net salary in the woodworking sector, which is certainly a small amount of money for such intensive work. So it's not just the exploitation of the forest, it's the achievement of a significant added value for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76329	Answer. Mr. Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76330	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I wanted the public to direct us here to what is the function of this Law. So this law doesn't define the sale of logs, it doesn't define relations with the wood industry, and that's not the point. It is a policy, of course, of the state, of the resolution ministry and of the Croatian Forests. Of course I am aware, and we prove this, means HNS when it was at the Ministry of Economy, that we defined through an industrial strategy, even below the criteria was the wood industry, we gave it priority and it became strategic precisely with the goal of a large number of people who are employed and important, and precisely with the aim of making quality raw materials of Croatian forests, especially through the finale go to added value. So, I didn't budge, ignored in that part of the significance. That's one thing. The second thing, even Croatian forests couldn't do all those jobs that stem from this Law itself from the protection of forests, the cultivation of forests, that there was no money from sales. I just want one more thing. You've mentioned before that it's not necessary to make a profit. Well, it's a matter of country's commitment. But I'm saying, when I'm talking about the prices of the gulf, the logs specifically, if you want, or multi-meters or energy wood, that somewhere from 20-25% in Croatia is cheaper than in the surrounding countries. We have two species in the processing area. So we have the finalists, we have the ones that aren't. It's one thing. The other thing is that during the period of previous administration of the Croatian Forests, some unfavourable contracts have been signed, we must say clearly and loudly, which cemented the prices and contracts for the acquisition by the Croatian forests of certain halves. That's the negative part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76331	Time. And the last replica. Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76332	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here you are, Comrade Batinić, you've noticed one thing well. So if we look only at forests as economic activity and the production of hulls, and not as something that is very useful for human health and human life, biological diversity in the Republic of Croatia, then we're wrong. Well, we're wrong in many ways. It's one of those ones they are because the woods are being cut down by the pitfalls. Usually when they're in crisis, they use ore wealth, and the forest is one of them. And we've been in a crisis for 27 years, and the woods are being cut open. The woods in Lonjsko field where I grew up on the edge and was, now that I'm gone, I don't recognize those areas anymore because there's no such forests, and there's a morphine that's the dominant plant under which nothing grows. All attempts at shaming fail. The real Slavonic oak is already gone. Unfortunately, many individuals in this system have benefited very fatly from, say, the alleged management of Croatian forests. We know there's a lot of traffic in the company market, that some of the most common vehicles we meet on the roads are trucks, so-called trucks. The squires who carry these logs all the time, and I don't see any big benefit for the Republic of Croatia in that forest management. I think the management of the forest should be just more in this sense that you said, which is to preserve biodiversity, oxygen production, and it's unfortunate that we logs allow to be crushed for biomass, to sell and export that biomass out. Here's a colleague who said how much one tree adopts CO2, how many tons and it's being refused by other states than its... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76333	Mr. Batinic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76334	Thank you. I'm glad you support this way of thinking. In fact, as to whether or not the restoration of the forest is successful, of course it is to the glory or to the shelter of the domicile forestkeeper whether or not he has succeeded. Now, we must distinguish whether we are talking about forests owned by Croatian forests or private property. It's a big difference, and it's seen the difference from the growth and from the wood supply in the private woods as they are, on the same floor bonuses, etc. As far as the halves are concerned, I told my colleague, Žagar, of course, that the state must take care of both the wood industry and the logic of the matter is that the state must somehow manage certain processes and industry independently of its ownership. Namely, the basis of the management is brought for a period of 10 and for the next 10 years and the indicative projection is that, that means for 20 years. The state manages this resource, not as much as I have information over the past 27 years, eight Croatian states have never gone into advance or cut more than growth. But that's possible. It's possible to realize the 10-year-old at 7 to 8 years. But not only must the waist stand behind it, but it must be seen and the result that it wants to win. So anything is possible, but I have the impression that it wasn't the case or when I was inside the Croatian forests I know it wasn't the case. Furthermore, as far as exports are concerned, we are an EU member, an open market and a Croatian forest have no responsibility over that part of the wood industry that exports the halves with its will.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76335	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. It's Mr. Tulio Demetlika in front of the IDS, PGS and RI.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76336	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. Here's also on behalf of the club IDS, PGS and RI I want to refer to the proposal for a forest law. Forests are the vessels of sustainable development and green economy, and that is why this topic is very important to us. But by reading this bill, I have the impression that the ruling will boast that they have passed another law, which will not actually be enforceable, and above all because of the inconsistencies with other laws. When we talk about forests, I must point out that we are faced with a number of problems and I ask the question whether we are solving them by this law, i.e. If we're going to get rid of them. The first problem is the fact that forests are a renewable natural resource of which in the Republic of Croatia we have little use for. Forests, shaming, wood like raw materials is simply neglected. We thus show ourselves that we are unable to manage natural wealth, that we are bad masters. Instead of encouraging the production of finished wood products, we are exporting logs today. It's devastating since we have all the resources we need from those natural, knowledge, tradition, experience in wood processing. And this law should create favourable conditions for the development of the economy, the retention of people in the rural area and allow these people to have a better quality of life and a higher standard. The next problem I want to especially highlight is the state of the forest in the Gorski kotar that disappears daily in all respects. There's a disaster on the mountain cotter. The woods are going down, people are moving out. The income of local self-government units from this vast natural wealth is minimal. I also have to point out, here's that the mountain smurf also destroys the smurf's foothill and it can't be solved because the state leaves this problem to private owners of which a large number of them don't even know where their parcels are. This will lead to the spread of the disease as long as the forest in the Gorski Kotar disappears completely. Thus, such unsettled property-legal relations again lead to an old pain called an unsettled state in land books and catastros. I am now asking the question of who will be to blame us when in about 10, 15 years, the Gorski Kotar becomes Velebit. I'm afraid the milk is gone. I think we'll be guilty ourselves. As far as the law itself is concerned, the Proposer states that the proposal for a forest law will enable the removal of difficulties that have been identified in the implementation of the applicable law and will shorten and speed up administrative procedures in the exercise of rights or the determination of obligations relating to forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, as well as those relating to forests and forest land owned by private persons. On behalf of our club, I must stress that I am skeptical about this because, as I pointed out earlier, there are a number of problems from unsettled land books and catastras to the trom and inefficient administration that is holding us back in almost all areas and so on in terms of forests. What we pointed out as a club on several occasions for agricultural land also refers to forest land, which was that, compared to forest and agricultural land, it was believed that the units of local self-government had become owners of building land within the boundaries of the construction area of the settlement. As an important point, I must point out that the Law on Forests was in no way able to derivate the Law on Building Land. Based on such legal understanding of the municipality and cities, during the 20-year period, most of the land books included the registration of property rights for real estate located within the boundaries of the construction area of the settlement of certain spatial and planic documentation. And according to culture, they were listed as forests or forest land, or agricultural land, but in fact they were more accurate building land within the boundaries of the construction area of the settlement, which had not yet been brought forward by intentional spatial planning documentation. However, in terms of forest and forest land ownership, the Supreme Court has taken a stand towards which forests and forest land become owned by the Republic of Croatia regardless of whether they were in or outside the building land zone. The consequences stemming from such a busy legal position can cause enormous damage and are strong, under the alleged signs of "smack" on municipalities and cities. The worst consequence that can result from this is the great legal uncertainty that would prevail because of the change in long-term court practice and the busy legal views and that would completely betray the confidence of citizens and investors in the units of local self-government. In particular, we draw attention to the fact that there are more than 200 disputes in the area of Istria County at the moment on the cases of the Republic of Croatia concerning the problem in question, including 1500 hectares of land owned by municipalities and cities. In addition, since cities and municipalities are those who, by logic, have made things available to their land within the framework of my jurisdiction, ask questions about what will happen to all these land? The proposer further states that the new law will also regulate the process of detaching individual forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is registered in a catastro using the method of use as an oranic, garden, meadow, pasture, olive grove, vineyard, reeds and marshes from the forest-based area of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of agricultural use, as well as the procedure for the inclusion of individual land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which will not be brought into the forest-economic area, which will allow the continuous implementation of land-building operations owned by the Republic of Croatia in a way that individual land is brought into real land conditions on the ground. This confirms the previously mentioned problem of an uncoordinated and uncoordinated catastra because the situation in the cataster has nothing to do with the real situation on the ground. In the end, I would like to mention another problem that is not closely related to this law but is in line with our subject and I believe that the ministry can help and that is linked to our young people, more specifically to the magistrates. urban forestry engineers to protect nature and the environment. According to the Regulation on the content and manner and subjecting of an expert examination for authorised forestry and wood technology engineers, the right to pass an expert examination shall be given to persons who have graduated in the Republic of Croatia from the university programme dip. an engineer of forestry or wood technology or persons who have graduated abroad and who are recognised by special regulations the sameness of an foreign diploma. According to that Regulation, masters of urban forestry engineers are not entitled to pass any of the professional examinations at the chamber or even a professional examination for the authorised ecology engineer, nature protection and urban forestry. Namely, the Law on Forests, as performers of certain works, is referred to exclusively authorised forestry engineers which do not belong to those with a completed urban forestry direction. What these young people will do if we take away their ability to work, young people must be given the opportunity not to push them to leave Croatia in search of work and a better life. And I believe the Ministry will take that into account and amend that rule. Finally, I must say not now entering certain controversial articles as we have concluded, reading this bill, that there is a significant discrepancy with other laws and that we are going to submit amendments accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76337	Thank you, too. Mr. Demetlika, you have two replicas on your exhibit. The first line has Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76338	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Tulio, here's a good mention of the Milky Way, you say no more Milky Ways and the woods are cut down. Well, the Milky Way came to cut down other people's woods and didn't have that awareness problem. But today, when there are no Milky Ways, some of our Croatian milkmen have cut down those forests and cut them down by the pitfalls that are far worse because they cut down their own, cutting down what they should leave for their children and their grandchildren. And when we go back and take a look at all those who ran the Croatian forests, I think they and the team around them have taken good advantage of this leadership of the Croatian forests. Let us remember recently how many bonuses were paid to those who managed the Croatian forests and at the end of the fall the Croatian forests were cut, for example, for the sake of the benefit of the Croatian people, but it is not the end of the day. Unfortunately, we can write the i.e. Proposer the best Law on Croatian Forests when there are always those who know very well how to bypass it, how to turn it to their advantage and how to make a good fat profit on Croatian forests, on state property. We know very well what it's like to be there in some kind of forest, the man who manages it, when you get from the central order that you have to raise the cut by 1000, 2000 cubic metres, that you have to step up the plan and you just don't have a little bit of where to do it so that the Milky Ways weren't the worst, these Croatian Milky Ways that have done over the past 27 years more than those Milky Ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76339	Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76340	Thank you for the replica, surely what you have stated, today Croatian forests are managed by Croatian forests and can agree, I will not say that they are like Milk but we often say that Croatian forests often behave like a state in the country. But that is why it is up to us that we just have to adopt a quality legislative regulation and that one responsible, I will say, by managing this very natural resource, as my colleague Batinić said, which is nevertheless limited and we must take care of this sustainable development and that with this restoration of that natural resource, it can certainly ensure quality development of the economy by opening new jobs but not to disrupt the natural balance that is important. So good regulation and good master surely we can make the most of this natural resource that is available to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76341	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Lipoščak Tomislav, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76342	Thank you, Vice President. Well, he would only be attached to your colleague, the finding that in the Gorski Kotar of the Forest, the state is doing nothing, or everything is going to be left to the private let's say so, to the forest owners. I would remind you of the interpretation that the Ministry of Agriculture referred to the Ministry of Justice in 2016 on this very matter when it was thought that the rightful owner was required to do something about his own matters and if he cannot be forced to do so, then the authorities of the local or regional self-government units are. However, we went one step further, so that Croatian forests also received the authority to infect or endangered primarily the trees of the pine tree in the Gorski Kotar, they can cut down whether or not the private owners submitted a request for a tip, so they went into contact and after 30 days, if the owners had not done the cutting, Croatian forests were cutting. So it's not exactly a finding that the state has done nothing there and that the Gorski kotar forests are left to ourselves, on the contrary, we've even come out of one legal framework and because of one general good and because of the general state of the forest, we've found several modes to do it in one way to make everyone happy. And I would only refer to these Milky Ways that we often refer to as the greatest destroyers, I would disagree with that the Milky Ways destroyed the Velebit forest, namely if we go back a little bit in history we'll see that the Milky Way has passed the first laws, regulations on the preservation and cultivation of forests, especially in your Istria, where they were particularly interested in oaks and where new trees were planted for each tree cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76343	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76344	I thank you for the replica, but you'll have to agree with me, the fact is that today in the Gorski Kotar of the Forest, the same management of these forests is still failing, and to see that it is being exploited and that these units of local self-government have little use for each other, and people there do not find a job in that wooden industry and go and move out of the Gorski Kotar. And we can agree that one critical situation today is in the Gorski kotar precisely because of that. As far as private forests are concerned, can a lugar or employee of the Croatian Forests today enter the private forest and take measures? So he can do it with the law you said, but if he doesn't do anything, then it's transferred to local self-government units, and that's where I see the problem. If Croatian forests are the ones that run the forest...... But then why keep private forests and not switch to local self-government? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Because also under the Fire Protection Act, they imposed that local self-government units must work a special programme, spend money, instead of making the same Croatian forest. So if Croatian forests are for forest management, let them manage both public and private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76345	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next is on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. In front of us is the first reading of the Forest Act, we have had the current Forest Act since 2005, the last amendment was there in 2014 and since the basic law has been 13 years, it is obvious that this is how to say, technically, the decision to make the new Forest Act. And if this Law were called the Law on the Use of the Forest, there would be some things clearer to me, this way he's just a little bit and a little bit and a little bit and a little bit and a little bit of the law that we have and some of the important things that have opened up in this debate, this law has been solved, but we're going to have one line that the law has been passed. And that's what we have all the time and we see what they're doing, they're doing the following, roughly from recycling everything that we have in the context of waste disposal when it's important to recycle everything and have it sort of clean up, a little bit of cleaning up, add possibly some kind of article to discuss it a little bit, and we have new laws, and then at the end of the year we'll be able to sign how many laws we have. The debate that was so far has generally been about the use of the forest. However, the law is not called the law on the use of forests, the law is called the Law on Forests and those 3 elements that were extremely important and that we are talking at the introduction, which is sustainable forest management, efficient use of resources and responsibility for forests at global level. So in this debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I'd like to focus a little on these three basic things and from my point of view of the spatial planner, say a little about what the forest is, meaning the woods. Croatia is approximately 5.6% of the area that is built and about 50% under the forest. Originally, when you look at the old maps and the way they were, you have those forests that were traditional old forests, but you have a series of forest surfaces that were created in the past, I would say 50 years old to the use of agricultural land, so the agricultural land turned into forest land. What are the practices that I've seen and met, over the past 20 years, that's about to happen. So we have a constitution where we talk about forests, as a matter of importance and as a constitutional category. We have always in the law that the importance of the forest, that at forest level, that no building areas can be built, that forests are extremely important to us, which are in practice and happening and is happening and is still happening. It happens next, you have a forest near the construction area, it's very interesting for you to build it, and then you go and watch what you do. Then make that forest known. Someone comes along and declares that they attacked you, like a sub-cod or something, that piece of your forest. Then it comes to you, and the forest is cut down, and then you go to the cadastre, and they come out, and they find that it's no longer a forest, but it's a pasture, and then at the first change of plans, it's no more, it's not a forest, it's not a pasture, it's a building area. And now he sees miracles, we in this law, for the first time, we say, through a provision of art. 46th, when the forest gets hit in the fire, after 10 years. There's nothing to be done for 10 years, but after 10 years, the purpose can be changed. We live in the country we live in. We live neither in Sweden nor in Norway nor in Denmark, we live in a country called Croatia. 10 years after something is burned, there's always a danger that this land, look at what's going on in the context of climate change, let's say, everything else that's been connected to some kind of soil, which was useful for water to take away, so that the water takes away some of the stone and everything else, and that after 10 years, we do damage in the context of that, that one day it would be a building area. It's absolutely inadmissible and we, we'll absolutely be against it, and I'd like the motionaries to think about it one more time, not doing miracles. I'll just say two sentences, you've seen something that happened in Croatia's Kostajnica, there's been a rink. The extent where geologists say it is a scale that is surprising for Croatian opportunities as well. In a space where no card has ever been recorded as a slide. So let's see what's important, even when you're processing agricultural land and what's important when you're taking care of forests. You actually, not only, you protect in a certain way and the ground. If so, how did the slides come to be, and what is happening to us? Climate change is a fact. Climate change has arisen among other things because of man’s taking on the role, don’t get me wrong God’s ability to change and have no consequences. There is a consequence, nature tells us at every moment that there is consequences. And as long as the consequences are material, it's something you can see, when the first man gets hurt and a man loses his life, it's something that's incomprehensible. These glides that are happening are caused by a large amount of rainfall, by a large amount of snow and by what? The work of a man. The man who was keeping an account was in certain areas pulling through the municipal infrastructure, because the infrastructure, it can, it didn't do all the research it was supposed to do. And it's also the consequence of where a man was supposed to build a house, so he built right there and where he shouldn't, because it was hotter and because it was cheaper land or he decided to dig a little bit of gravel, a little bit of this, a little bit of that, and he's definitely made problems. For that which is made of gliders, the water shall come into the layers of the earth; for man hath done something before. So somehow what is important and what should be read from this law should be the clear position of the Republic of Croatia, the responsibility for forests at global level, that it is important to protect them, that it is important to maintain them, that it is important, that we use them adequately, that it is important that we continue to invest new means of shaming where we should be and that we actually use this resource effectively. We only see this use in the export of logs and certain wood mass and themes that are related to it. I would like in the context of spatial planning, the way it participates in the development of spatial plans and consent is in the usual way, which you have participated so far. But there is one theme in this law that speaks of urban forests, and when you say urban forests, it all sounds so convenient, what is it in nature? It is in your nature, therefore, that we all have the established limit of the city, or the limit of the municipality, when the city's border is established, then through a spatial plan from through cities that have GUPs and borders of GUPs. And then, the easiest thing for me is to talk about the GUP of Zagreb, but I can talk about something else, and then within this GUP, which is the space for building the forest that is in urban use, so there can be recreation in it, you can base these provisions that talk about renting there with certain kiosks and everything else. However, these forests, which are urban forests, are state-owned and the theme is who maintains those forests. Who's taking care of them? Who collects paper, garbage and junk in them? And here we come to an eternal topic, on purpose I won't talk about the woods about what I always talk about, and that's the ratio of catastrophe and grantine because they talked about others, but I'm going to talk about the topic of decentralisation. So on this water account the units of local self-government because it is their interest because these urban forests are in their tissues of their municipalities, cities or individual places. Because if it's not maintained, they can see it. And they're the ones who actually take care of maintenance. And then I think it would be at least fair that if we knew that that was the case, and we know that that was the case, that we had at least enough two provisions in the law, let it remain state-of-the-art, but that we know that they could manage local self-government units, not only in terms of maintenance, but also in terms of leases and other things, so that it would be as we say tantrums on tants, that in one part they would get something for the part that they should take care of. And there's one topic that's caused some very, very gentle debate here, and that's your theme of camps and golf courses. The golf courses in these areas have caused a big debate. I remember those discussions, I remember everything. There's been a hundred golf courses, there's been a lot of talk. I'm sure we don't have any golf course in the Republic that should have golf course elements, and as it stands, we won't have any. Maybe because we don't need to, maybe because time is over, maybe because processes are just different. Because golfers say golfers come to a destination where there are three different golf courses nearby. We didn't make it to either, let alone three. But she'd go back to the theme camp. How did the camps come to be? Camps were created where the forest was for a simple reason because it was a natural shade and it was one particular benefit and one advantage. And then we've been messing around and literally I dare say we've been messing around and doing things, whether the camp is a construction area, so if it's a construction area, then there can be no forest anymore, so if it's not a forest anymore, then they have to pay compensation for the separation and forest economic base and for the wood mass that it is, and in nature it's still a forest because a good camp will be where our forest is, where it's cold and where you use nature. And the Law that was passed and entered into force in 2014, the Law on Spatial Planning, for the first time, said that it remains in the nature of the forest, but that it can be used for the camp. And that's one step that I'm sure is made in terms of quality. That in other words means theoretically, some imaginary golf course we're not going to have, which is within its kind of 100 acres, it's going to have a part that's a forest and it's going to stay a forest. He'll have a piece that's an olive tree and let's keep it an olive tree. Through this, some golfers who will not come to Croatia will walk, through that forest, through that olive grove, and it is good that this provision in the Law on Forests is defined in this way because it simply aligned with the Law on Spatial Planning and we finally clearly acknowledged the fact. Where the forest can be camp, the forest will remain still, the forest must be maintained, and the purpose and use will be for the camp and we finally told the truth. We love you very much to pass laws in which we make certain provisions and certain situations so cleverly available, and then in reality it's somehow different. At the same time, as soon as we make laws, we try to act differently in reality to this law. So I think that, or I'm sure that this is extremely good, as I'm sure it's connected to the burning surfaces extremely badly, and there's something that's been going through the law all along, and that's your national strategy. In principle, countries adopt national strategies. National strategies are adopted sectorally and are brought interdisciplinaryly, so all sectors are united together. It is very good that we have national strategies by sector, so that we may have one strategy at the level of the Republic of Croatia, to finally give the answer that we see in 2030, or 2050. Do we see Croatia that will use its advantage of large areas under the forests as an advantage, but not in a way that we see logs being exported or being improperly used, but to see that these are certain advantages in terms of use, in terms of tourism and the rest, or what we have, with which Croatia will say: Croatia is a land of forest, Croatia is a land of nature parks, Croatia is a country in which we deal with pharmaceutical industry, anything. Let us finally know what Croatia is, because at this point we do not know and in the context of this, without the strategy of forestry, the national strategy of forestry, we will find it difficult to know what to do with forests. I hope the promoter will use everything we've been saying in the debate. This law won't, I say it on a few occasions, it won't bring anything good or bad. We've had a little bit of cleaning up, recycled, one of us had such a convenient provision where we somehow made it easier for these forest owners, and we're opening up some sort of topic here, but if it was called the Forest Using Act, it would be something more clear, but it's called the Forest Act and we try to think about the forest and the importance of the forest, and the one we have the responsibility of all those who manage forests and who deal with forests, not only at the level of the Republic but also beyond. Absolutely this provision that I quote we will oppose, and we will see what will happen between the first and second readings in relation to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76347	Thank you, colleague Anki Dark-Taritash. We've all got replicas, the first one's a colleague of the Sorceress Mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76348	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's a colleague of mine you said well that this whole law like a series of other laws is recycling certain existing laws, instead of solving some of the life problems that exist on the ground through the law. Here I will look again at this problem that exists, which is an unclassified road that is constantly destroyed by the Croatian forests and I will mention my example. So in exploiting state forests, they are used to transport wooden varieties are used trucks with trailers that have large axle loads. Of course they're too heavy for our narrow, unclassified roads and there's a lot of damage to them. So Croatian forests use these roads without any compensation and I have witnessed it as mayor and of course the citizens come to you first and ask for a solution to this problem. And we came to that stage that we just said that we would ban at all the transport of those wooden sentinels from the state woods unless they returned the road to our original state. For out of the forest offering, which was, in particular, three to six thousand kunas in the city of Pregrad, in particular, on a yearly level. You know what you can do with that? Maybe spray some 200, 300m roads if you do it along with the transport. So we had to solve these things inside whether through the law, whether through some rules it can be solved, not that the constant problems come from the company, I repeat once again, which has such a huge profit, and so little goes back to that local level where it's mostly earning its profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76349	Thank you. A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76350	Thank you very much. My fellow Squirts, unclassified roads are a special problem. The particular problem is for the simple reason that really when used inadequately and not used properly they become a major burden of local self-government units only to lead them to white to spit and to use them. In my line of work, I have indeed faced various problems that have arisen because of inadequate use of the forest. One of the big problems that I didn't even talk about were the quarryes that were created in the area of forests and forest land, which were created because they were inadequately used because stone was being dug up, and then gravel and everything else was being excavated, so that's all of the things we have. I absolutely and that in the debate I was even quite gentle, if we want to bring so we have two models of lawmaking, one of which is not going to change and supplement now for the seventh time, eight times no one can write down all those People's Newspapers anymore, so we see what we have, we do one consolidated text put in there two provisions we have a new law and that's that. That's what we're talking about or saying my people have problems and, and, and let's try to solve them through the law, it's not this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76351	Thank you. It's a replica from my colleague Giovanni Sponze. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76352	Dear and esteemed colleagues. You have pointed to a very important article of the proposal of this law, which is an article 46 short, containing one sentence, which reads: “On the burned-out surfaces of forests and forest land, the purpose of ten years of fire cannot be changed” and has very clearly pointed out in which the conversions of land into construction were inappropriate. There were several MPs and MPs already on this subject, but on this article, I also talked about it, so I support what you point to, and I would once again repeat it through an example of neighbouring countries where certain groups have set fires themselves in order to later through pressure on politics something that we should not allow to turn that land into construction tomorrow. Every law must be clear and unequivocal. Here I deeply believe that the proposer himself has no intention of allowing re-use through legislation and I expect, in fact, that in the second reading, very precisely, whether or not this and related to some other articles defines the part that it cannot be converted into building land. And I'm going to repeat what I said in the previous replica, and I believe that in these burned areas, the waist should make a proposal that new cultures can plant in that area that we can ultimately exclude any manipulative possibility of turning into a construction area. Our maximum support for what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76353	Thank you. Answer, colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76354	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Sponza. So there are certain experiences, there are certain things that didn't start with us, it started long ago, and it won't end with us. It's simple if it's principled if we're guarding forests and forest land then there can be no provision that says when something in a fire is destroyed after ten years it can be redeployed into something else. My men, we will have professional arsonists who will do it on purpose. And you know where he'll work? They'll be working on the islands, doing first row by the sea or whatever. And the question in ten years is whether it will be more or more climate change and water will take away the land. So let's not do something that we know right now is going to bring absolute mess and this mess with lasting consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76355	Thank you. We continue with discussions on behalf of the club of representatives, next is colleague Gordan Maras in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. There's a proposal for a forest law ahead of us. As the promoters and colleagues said earlier, the law has experienced some changes and has changed several times and it was necessary to write a new law, but in our opinion it does not offer enough, or what we have been warning about for some time, and I think it should continue to be warned that forests in the Republic of Croatia are not managed in the best possible way, or that we can get more than forest and that we need to take more care and invest more in this natural wealth that Croatia has in order to benefit from it. What am I saying that for? I'm talking because we all know that in Croatia our surface area is 47% of the Republic of Croatia's surface covers forests, that they are extremely high in natural composition, so over 95%, that there are over 105 types of forest communities. So we're very rich, but that's where the story starts and stops. So Croatia is now not only exclusive for this government, but the previous governments could have done a lot more for the Croatian forests. As far as world trends are concerned, they also concern us. So 13 million hectares of forests are destroyed annually, and this brings from 12 to 20% of the total greenhouse gases in the world caused by this contraction. So we also have to deal with forests from the position of the economy, but also with the position of environmental protection and nature. Now we come to this law that detects a certain situation in the Republic of Croatia, and this situation says that, for example, on the market in the forest and raw materials that is traded, that is, the total market is dominated by one state-owned company Croatia's forest, which has 90% of its employees and 81% of its income. When you see Croatian forests that have about 2 commas some billion kuna per year, 2 billion and 100 million kuna and 186 million kunas get a man to think that, that's a good result, there's a lot of income, there's a solid profit. But when you look at a certain structure you see that out of these 2 billion kunas and 100 million kunas what incomes Croatian forests have over half goes away whether for wages, whether for a certain cold drive that has nothing to do with forests, and only ten percent a year returns as investment in forests, whether through forest infrastructure or through demining. Now, when a man looks at it, it means whether out of 2 billion and 100 million kunas enough money for Croatian forests to return to the woods especially because the income that is collected from the general useful means for a socially useful function of the forest and which is paid by companies is essentially that income that should be absolutely returned and whether Croatia's forests should still give a certain additional income there, of course. Because that's inadmissible. And when we look at it over the years, it's going around at about two hundred million kunas a year, which, as a rule, half of which is spent, I say demining, and half of it is spent on forest infrastructure. And now that we're looking at this law that's enough, I would say in general, it doesn't guarantee any change in that part or economical, nor socially useful we're not satisfied, and on that side of the first reading we're not going to support it, and we're asking the suggestor to go a little more ambitious, to decentralise the funds, to think about maybe making a concept from this state mastodont to the second reading where a few companies might be built where they could be decentralised, where certain forests might become private legal persons and in such a way that they might also be able to participate through the ownership of local self-government units, meaning countys and cities that could be participated and thus gain greater benefit for the forest itself, or greater benefit from our citizens living in those particular environments. Which is why we have to, it's now of course a question for discussion and maybe it's not a matter that can be solved in a week or two days or a month, but which is why we have to have a mastodon of 7600 employees and 2 billion and 100 million kunas of which I say only 10% goes back to the woods. I'll bet, that's what I'm offering every bet here to change the concept, to decentralize both citizens and units of local self-government. But what's most important, and the woods would benefit much more from that. When you look at the whole market, then you see basically how much the concept is and how much that raw material is worth, and how little it's used. All companies participating in the market, and starting with the Croatian forests, have a marked profit of Croatia's forests about ten percent of their income, and these companies still taking part in the market from 15% to 20% of what it says that no matter how untapped the market is, how well the bad lords and businesses deal with it are also talking about a certain closure of the market, i.e. that these quotas of raw materials that are shared on certain auctions and on long-term contracts are one closed circle that is very difficult to enter. And it's a very nice business that goes this far from the eyes of the public where some make decent money. Because no one can tell me that someone who deals with the sale of logs or has a sawmill can make such high yields unless there is no added value in the form of furniture production yet. And I'm saying, companies, look at them in the FINA, they all profit from 15 to 20%. So 20 million kunas of income, 5 million pure profits, which is what I told you about, the closed market, the long-term contracts, the non-transparent way of granting quotas for certain raw materials, etc. I'm saying all of this because it's possible to do a lot more than we have right now, that it's possible to change the concept completely and that this concept might not be, not that maybe it's definitely not the most ideal one. And what I would like to say is only suitable in situations I say when the quota of raw materials is distributed that certain entrepreneurs get it or when they are hired to hire people in that large mass of 8 thousand people, then maybe when they employ more than 5 hundred workers last year it doesn't seem much. So let's try to focus on sustainable forest management and their multi-purpose role in a way that decentralises the role of those who manage it, to include local units, to effectively use resources. It means that out of the 2 billion kunas collected by the Croatian forest, it is not only 10% back but maybe 20% or 30%. As far as the compensation itself is concerned, we tend to see it completely abolished, so this suspension only for companies up to 3 million kunas, I don't think it's enough and I don't think that income is significant either. It means that it will be covered within this profit without any problem. I said, 200 million kuna profits, 200 million kunas of collected income from entrepreneurs. Because what do we get here? So we get, for example, a 3 million kuna company that's going to be released 0.0265% of annual income, which means disbursing about 8 hundred kunas. It's not even necessary to point out too much to me because I think entrepreneurs will not feel that way, much more will be felt by companies that have, of course, more income, especially in tourism, industry, etc. with high incomes that might be a discharge of a hundred or five hundred thousand kunas would mean something. And in the end, it would be good to at least invest when we talk about tourism, when companies are singled out so much for that purpose that at least it invests in fire protection, not investing in something that doesn't have too much to do with it, and it even happens that people, that people should be punished in situations of course, should be warned but people sometimes go out of despair to work and cut fire roads because unfortunately Croatian forests sometimes don't work in Dalmatia. So to sum up in the end, we're not satisfied with this proposal, it's not ambitious enough. We also agree with colleague Anko Mrak-Taritash about the fire and re-use of the land, let us not allow creativity at will. So maybe because someone can't do anything with their forest there's a lot, there's a lot of private owners in Croatia, they're going to be encouraged by this bill of law, they might also be encouraged by some crimes that we don't want to do, and that's how we destroy the forest belts, or our forests that I tell them 47% in the Republic of Croatia. So we're going to open up a public debate about whether forests can be decentralized, whether they have to function as a central state-owned company when and now we have forest administrations that are very large and which may be able to function much better separately and have a better use of that role. Let's free all entrepreneurs' contributions, not just these to 3 million kunas, it will be our amendment in particular if this proposal comes to another reading. And let's see that we try to make that market a little more transparent because believe me, I don't know any other market where entrepreneurs usually have such high profits. I don't know where the entrepreneurs are. 167 of them operating in that branch have 15 to 20% of the profits. So there's something wrong with it, it might be a guess, but I think it has a lot to do with transparency and the closeness of the market. We're saying all of this in order to get a better law, to better fulfill its purpose, to protect 47% of the surface of the Republic of Croatia. And I said this variety of species which and the forest communities which, Croatia is one of the few countries that has it. And on that side, everyone should be in the interest of continuing like that. All foresters and forest lovers I wish in advance happy 21.03. World Forest Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76357	Thank you. We have three replicas for the presentation of our colleagues, Maras. The first one is a colleague of Tomislav Lipoščak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76358	Thank you, Vice President. Here's just a few let's just say it like that on your allegations. You talked about the Croatian Forests system as one mastodont in our proportions in our country and with so many employees, perhaps we can talk like that, but the idea of establishing more smaller companies doesn't know how much on the ground to live up to, especially from a particular system that is now guaranteed to cover all areas, even those that do not have a prominent economic value. In fact, we have forests, a large part of the forest as we've heard today, and they have no economic value or profit. In this way, one way you said, the central system allows both profit and even resources and people to be distributed from the parts where they have them, let's say, excess and financial and human in the parts that don't have it. Also, if you were to break it into several companies, in several companies, I ask you in which way you would finance such companies specifically on Dalmatian junk, would that lead local self-government units to problems because of additional separation or should then go to an increase in compensation for the general useful functions of the forest that we have heard you advocated to general and abolish them. Let's look just a little bit into the neighborhood, specifically here's Slovenia, which, after many years, has returned to a system like we have, and as far as the financing problems are concerned, or finalisation or non-transparentity of the contract and the award of the contract are concerned, I agree with you that there are a lot of problems. However, Croatian forests in such a system do not have a lot of control options, they have in one part but by making a decision on the way and conditions of sale, we must say that they are forced by finalists but are not Croatian forests which can control and export and whether they export what is really written on the paper, that... which is exported or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] or a log or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76359	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76360	Thank you very much. So I'm just finding out something that's clear to every observer, so there's no business where everyone's successful, I haven't seen it, and in this case everyone's successful. Take a look at the company's little structure, walks and profits. No believe me, of these 160 companies you won't find any parallel examples in Croatia where you have this structure, okay, maybe they're not absolutely all 160 but 90% are winners, 15, 20%, so there's no such thing as almost anywhere. So there's something wrong, that's all I'm saying. As for this fee for maintaining the usefulness of forests or investing in them and allowing something to return there, it is disproportionate, look at what forests collect and earn and what is invested in forests. So isn't it a paradox that the state takes more money a year through profits or the same money through profits than it invests back in the woods? That's a very paradoxical information for me. Instead of exploiting the capacity, to invest in the woods, to invest more in everything that is needed, contractions, roads, maintenance of new plantations, etc., we take more as a state from the company back into the budget. That's just what I'm trying to say, and with that it would, yes, if we abolished the contribution eventually to get the brain would be, but maybe it would be even more useful then if the state took the money back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76361	Thank you, Comrade Maras. Next colleague, Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, a colleague of Liposchak has already said a part of what I was about to say, but why is decentralisation difficult to perform? Because you have a part of the forest, especially in the continental part that generates income and you have forests in this coastal part that mainly generates expenditure, simply woodwork in an economic sense is more favourable and makes better use of this one from the continental part than from the coastal part. So in the event of decentralisation, you would have a part of these new companies, smaller companies that would generate revenue and most of the expenditure would be on those other companies that couldn't be covered. And that is why a centralized system is needed to redistribute because, of course, investment in the forests in the coastal area is very important, for tourist reasons, ecological and all others. Second, as regards the OCFSH, it would be difficult to finance it from profits because it is about remote means, so it is very clear in the rules on what it can be spent on. In the case where this would go from profit that is insecure from one year to the next, you would not be able to predict in advance how much money could be spent on any of these functions that are very valuable, from demining, scientific works, forest maintenance, fire roads, etc. As for the cuts for these small companies, the fact is that for this up to 3 million kunas would be reduced, i.e. abolished, the championship goes to the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises that are owned by Croatia, Croatian natural and legal persons. On the other hand, if you were to abolish these large ones, so if you were to cancel for everyone, in this way you would primarily favour the financial sector, large foreign-owned companies, etc., which is the same legitimate but then should be pointed out, so you have to clearly state what the consequences would be. At the end of this fire work, I don't know if that data has been mentioned so far, but 66% of the last year's fires have been... informing service Croatian forest, so I think it is very good to do work on the ground, can always do better, but should not show Croatian forests as if they only spend and do nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76363	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76364	Thank you very much. So look, companies regardless of whose ownership they employ our fellow citizens, I would be happy to say come Microsoft and open up here or Amazon, and open up here to Southeastern Europe and hire 5,000 of our citizens who would then have their jobs, it's not a matter of ownership, it's not a matter of discharge and it's not a matter of looking at it that way, but it's a way of looking at how to get a certain other benefit, and it's potential new investment, new employment, but what's much more important is that it's negligible income, in my view, in terms of what the woods are using or could still be used. So, with an increase in productivity that would simply not feel it because if it were about a couple of hundred million kunas a year, and forests have 200 million kunas to get now, with a slightly more rational business would probably be space. Now, you've said one thing that's very interesting to citizens. So, what about where there's a weaker quality of the forest and there's less. What are we gonna do about these woods? So look, why, let's say, our parts of the Republic of Croatia that are in one part poorer by much, like Slavonia, Bilogor etc. Why are you still putting it on the line where they're in the best position right now, as they want? There are forests there, there is good raw materials so they must help all over Croatia. And who's helping Slavonia? Who helps Slavonia in other parts, Mr. Falcon? Well, that's like saying that someone from Dalmatia, the tourism community of Split, which is the strongest in the Republic of Croatia, is giving here, in Orahovic, the mayor of Ms. Million kuna a year. Let's talk about it a little bit. Well, there's a fortune in Slavonia's forest, and there's someone else's fortune. Let's just decentralize things a little bit. Not all of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76365	Thank you, Mr. Maras. And the last replica. A colleague of Lenart Zeljko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76366	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, colleague Maras, I would refer to the part where you talked about profits and sawdustrs. Well, let's be happy that at least Croatian forests have that 100 and some million gains, that there is no loss, as in most state-owned companies. We're witnessing a blooming part of the sawmill, which doesn't even have a final product but only cuts. I see them in my neighborhood where they built envious their processing, to say, capacities, where it's seen that there's money and that it can be from the fleet itself, and on the other hand we have too few of those who have a final product, which should actually be the ones who are going to make money. But the greatest absurd is that it all shares according to some arrangement, that it is not according to those who make the best use of it, and even more absurd than that, our citizens who want to save a few rabbits, so they want to make a heating tree for their heating households, for one thing, have received such a price that they simply do not pay to spend their work and resources to do it, and on the other hand, they are not even allowed to use it as a heating tree for their households and thus make it easier for them to use their budgets. So, on the one hand, guessing people who pick millions and millions, and on the other hand, poverty can't even be heated on that tree from the Croatian Forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76367	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76368	Comrade Lenart, you said it was a good thing they didn't have a loss like some other state-owned companies, and I'm telling you that it would be better to have a higher profit or to invest more in Croatian forests under the same profit. And I guarantee you, since I'm sure, for example, you and I will get there to raise the 20% profit at the start. And if a colleague, Hajdas Doncic, who is a doctor of economic science and is still an expert in tourism, because Croatian forests also have a lot of tourist facilities, it may well be 30-35%. So, I want to tell you from the position of como, from the position of como, yes. It's always good there. So when you're a monopoliest, when you're doing 20 years or 25 years of what you want, then it's how much you determine to win it. So, on that side, profit could be even bigger, but what I'm most complaining about is minimal investment in the woods. Out of two billion and 100 million kunas in the woods, 10% is invested. That's inadmissible. So that's inadmissible on that side. More countries take through profits from Croatian forests than they invest through Croatian forests in our overrich natural resource. And that's what I want to say here, and don't be impressed, believe me, it can be there and much, much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76369	Thank you, fellow Marasu. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76370	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all together on behalf of the HSS Club and related to the Law on Forests, I must say that this is an extremely important law, since the forests, as we have already heard, cover over 48% of the surface in the Republic of Croatia and are one of the significant potential and economic resources of the Republic of Croatia, but also important for the preservation of biodiversity and environmental sustainable management. It should be pointed out that we have not yet taken advantage of all the potentials of the same because Croatia or our forests, our forest land can and should be an opportunity to revitalise the rural space. They are also an opportunity to preserve life in these rural areas, meaning that all demographic processes, as well as important industries, especially the wood industry that rests on Croatian forests, represent 10% of Croatian exports and have more than 50,000 employees inside that branch. About the importance of forests and the mission of Croatian forests, it should be said, above all, that we have been engaged in forestry for over 250 years, and from among European forests we are also known and recognised by our universities and institutes, and certainly we should also listen to the profession and it is good that yesterday we had a thematic session of the Committee on the State of the Croatian Forests about the problem and climate change and the occurrences of pests that have not been in our space or done so much damage. And surely we should commend our Faculty of Forests, the Institute that they are on the trail of these events, that they follow it daily, that they are doing research, but we should repeat what we concluded yesterday on the board that the state of our forests is still better than it is in our environment. But that we must certainly be careful and respond to scientific, professional, quality and rapid responses, and in order to be able to invest more money in research and that we can respond to scientific and professional approach in a good way. And I'm glad that the Secretary of State has also accepted that suggestion, that he has promised to allocate most of the money in this year for research, and the proposal is for me and the HSS to provide for more funds in the next budget to rightly monitor these phenomena. Because we certainly don't care what the situation is, and we've heard that over 30% of the forest in the Gorski Kotar is infected with the carrot's foothill, that in some areas it's bigger. And what concerns me that comes from Slavonia, and all of us Slavons, but also wood industry, which is the problem of oak netting, which is already present in most of our forests, and where the danger of further growing oak or even drying forests, because it can't be evaluated in one year or two, it takes one long time to monitor that we know how and what to react. So I say it's good that our profession is present and that more money must be provided for this purpose. It should also be said that we must be more aggressive towards European money, that we have not withdrawn from the Solidarity Fund, we have used the money that was on our disposition precisely for that part of the burned areas, the forest, because these funds have also made good use of Portugal and Spain, and we have either failed to make a quality request or have not applied in time and have not used these funds. I must also point out that different interpretations have emerged, i.e. different data on how much this annual label is, how many forests are cut down in Croatia. According to one data, it's about 7 million cc's, and according to EUROSTAT's reports, it's 5.4 million cc's, and it certainly shouldn't be so different. And of course, in this sustainable integrated management in an economically sustainable, environmentally and economically efficient way and socially sensitive way, we need to make sure that we find a balance between our wood industry's needs, the quality management of the Croatian forests, and we have heard there already a number of discussions. Yes, Croatian forests, a publicly-authorized forest management company should not be an exclusive measure of profit and profit but rather a sustainable management of forests. We can still boast that most of our forests are biorenovated, except in areas where they are not and therefore served that compensation from the general user's function of the forest to finance forest restoration in the fragile areas of these money. And surely we need to continue to take care of it as well as to stress that over 38000 ha of the forest in Croatia is still mined and that we need to intensify and accelerate the process of demining these areas and putting these forests under control and management of the Croatian forests, i.e. to help and put into the economic function of that part of the Croatian forests. Of course, in this part of the wood pulp industry, we need to give priority to the final industry and that this is the only way we can protect domestic Croatian jobs. I liked that campaign that was a tree first, that through the construction sector and the wood industry we use as well as construction material and that Croatian forests and wood industry and thus get more public attention, to keep jobs in Croatia. It is also important to mention the needs of the industry that arises in the context of renewable energy sources, the need for biomass. We have passed certain laws here, and the pressure of this biomass industry has increased, especially from the forest. We have set a quota of 120 megawatts of biomass production in Croatia, while we put 750 megawatts from the wind. We don't have our own industry or our own equipment. We have imported everything and are paying that compensation to foreign companies, while here we should probably consider greater quotas and a higher chance of producing biomass in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there needs to be better and better quality control and in terms of cutting itself and plasma biomass, so that there is no devastation of forest spaces. Here we have a series of examples from private forests where there has been no real control, and on the other hand, in the restoration of these surfaces and planting of new plantations, we have to follow and respect the profession because we have a situation to plant rapidly growing species that are in a certain way a problem, the issue of public health, a lot of allergenic plants are being planted. And here we must respect the profession and look for those species that are indigenous and that can meet the needs of biomass. In connection with the announced introduction of records, we welcome this because there is no quality space management nor forests without records. However, it should be said that private forest owners, or rather forest owners, had several objections. The first observation of unresolved property-legal relations and there must be more money invested to address the situation. Of course, this cannot only be done by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Croatian Forest, or by private forest owners, that other ministries and the competent State Geodetic Administration should be involved. The second problem mentioned on their part is the division of private forest owners, forest owners to small, medium and large where they are prescribed the model from Austria where the only area parameter is. This cannot be the only parameter by them and I agree there, and other parameters should be classified because it is not the same economic value of the forest in Slavonia where the oak is or in Dalmatia where it is a maquis or something else, so that it is certain that the remark should be respected until the second reading sees that it is a little bit more separated and precise. Their observations are also related to the production of forest economic plans, cost-covering, private forest owners do not have that knowledge, and this should be seen in which way they should be helped. Also related to Article 37 relating to consignments of cargo manifests in the traffic of goods where only licensed companies can do the same thing I was already saying about this speaker that it is not good for a licensed company to work and cut and write accompanying papers for the transport of these goods. We should see the possibility of including the Agricultural Forest Advisory Service, we have a lot of forest engineers who are unemployed if they need to be hired and given these powers, and see that these private forest owners, too, have private forest owners of medium and large who have the ability and employment of professionals to do so themselves, here is their proposal, so maybe to think about it. They also mentioned the problem in Article 84 of the penalties for not collecting data on forest damage. We need to be honest that private forest owners do not have those skills in order to follow them in quality, and they will need education, as well as better cooperation with the competent and Croatian forests and competent inspections in order to guide them and how they will do so and who will do so on their behalf, because they do not have such expertise. Article 50 allows forest work in paragraph 3 to allow private individuals up to 20 metres of cubic entry into the forest and to make their own personal needs, we welcome this. However, the proposal is if we have already discussed the OPG Act recently and they are left with the possibility that they should be included in this article and there have been proposals in public debate to allow them to participate in these works and to make an amount of up to 500 metres of cubic income, so that they can have additional sources of income, especially in these autumn winter months, when agricultural work on agricultural areas can be stopped, and thus provide them with additional income and ensure their survival and life in these rural areas. And our people have always lived with the forest and around the forest and it's sad that people can't get into the forest, they can't get what's left behind of the works that were carried out by Croatian forests or authorized licensed performers, and on the other hand they don't have enough heat and we force them into some other sources and other energies instead of entering the forest and making themselves that wooden mass to use for their own needs and to sell them to their neighbors. Regarding Article 38 of the ban on pedestals, we have had a series of discussions and demands, and our desire is to preserve indigenous species, especially the black Slavonic pig. And there have been conversations and agreements that in certain forms and in certain areas under the control of the profession a rule will be prescribed that it can still be, so here's my question: is this how it remains that there is no harvesting and paesaring, or is there something that can be done in that direction that we leave certain areas for the cultivation of such indigenous species, especially black Slavonic pigs, and I think it is of interest to all of us. And of course I protest here because we together with Mr. Lovrinović and have submitted a proposal to amend the law so that citizens can go free, free to go to the forest which is in their backyard practically picking chestnuts, mushrooms or some forest fruit. The bill was rejected so that after 20 or 30 days, the minister would change the rules himself and allow it to go free just to report to the forest management. I welcome that, but I don't see any reason why what the opposition is proposing is always being rejected, and then in a month, the minister changes the rules and makes it possible. Well, here's a thank you to the minister on behalf of those citizens whose name we have proposed these amendments to the law. I'd still mention the problem of urban foresters here. In fact, there's this direction at our Forest College. We are now introducing urban forests into the law and there has already been a debate on whether or not it should be done, let the profession say so. We must enable the development and other activities in these areas, but then we must also give these people who have completed college that direction so that they can get a job and in that part we will, together with the people who have finished this course, put an amendment if they do not change until the second reading that they can also take professional exams and do jobs in forestry as well as their colleagues because according to a very similar programme they have completed college. Here's why I think we should do this, because of every man who finishes college in Croatia. Let our Croatian forests live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76371	We have four replicas for our colleagues' presentation. The first one is Mr. Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76372	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's how we are supposed to represent the Croatian people here, so I'll use this replica of one of our citizens who sent me a message saying that the forests are ecocidating on Bilogorje ruins everything and leave nothing but a beech, grab and oak china, root out the lip, and it's our indigenous tree species and as beekeepers claim to lose 10 million kuna, because there's no more lip honey. It says it is also rooted out and wild cherry, which is also a developmental... the community and the same indigenous kind of wood in Croatian forests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this law, I think it may be necessary, as we have already talked about biodiversity and biodiversity conservation, to add more importance to the preservation of these indigenous types of trees in Croatian forests. We know that wild cherries, wild pears special have been interesting in past times and very little has been there, but try to protect what is left, and here is what our citizens, who are engaged in and beekeeping, which is also a significant branch of redecoration in the Republic of Croatia. A colleague of Vlaovic mentioned here these 20 cc's of wood that a household would rightly build. We know that we have a household with 1, 2 maybe 3 families that have bigger houses and 20 cubes, which means some 28 meters of wood, is even too little to heat one such house and it should be increased maybe by double or at least 30, which I think is fair and not too much in it. Here you said the same thing that means, this proposal that HSS had about washing everything, what to report to Croatian forests, let people walk and pick free forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76373	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76374	Thank you. Well, here, fellow Lenart, thank you for your replica and I'll read a detail of the work of our Mr. Joseph Kozartz, who often wrote about forests especially of Slavonic forest, and then a quote, this interesting. “I’ve never had a cemetery so mowed as such a forest section with broken and mutilated trees” now that I’m not reading any further, I think it’s a clear message and then today our people living next to the forest and around the forest, that it’s very difficult to accept,... of course, while our Croatian forests according to the forest economic base and are agreed on the etatum, work is cut down and always said they work, they cut 70% of what has grown biologically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But always our population, especially in rural areas, is disappointed when they see this nudity and that forest land that was a quality forest yesterday, which consisted of different species and which were habitats, different species and of course bees. And surely we must make sure that such surfaces return to that original state as soon as possible. So also naturally, the biological restoration of the forest, which we have in our forests, unlike other European countries, but also when it is going to the forest, has to be respected by the profession, and this profession has to give an answer, which the forest ingredients need to be reinvigorated in those areas and certainly make sure that this biological and animal diversity in those areas is preserved, because of all of us and because of the generations that are coming. Because it's already said here, the oak that's been planted today, only for 140 years will we be able to reuse in January, or, in the wood industry or for some other purpose. Well, I don't think there's any need to be doubtful about it, to protect the woods and to facilitate co-existence with the woods.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76375	Next up is a colleague of the Vesligai Marko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76376	Thank you, Vice President. Here, in your debate, you have actually touched on the issues of EU funds and their weak use for the development of our forest infrastructure. Here, I can say, in fact, that the rural development programme provided Croatia 2.4 billion euros, unfortunately, we have already contracted only 31% of these funds in 2018, and around 20% has been paid. So 2 are here, we actually have an entire measure, that's measure 8 relating to investment in the development of forest areas and improving the sustainability of forests. We've got more, here I've set aside a 4.3.3 measure relating to investment in forest infrastructure. In these measures, I don't have the data here right now, I'm sure these percentages are much less than this average. Unfortunately, we've been waiting somewhere, here I know specifically about this measure of 4.3.3rd investment in forest infrastructure, more than 2 years for tendering, it's finally announced at the end of 2017 who knows when the results will be. I'll remind you that within this measure 7 we've been waiting for some results for over a year. And in 2020 it is very close to us and unfortunately we will not use this rural development programme that should have been for the development of our forest areas for infrastructure development to the extent that we should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76378	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague agrees with you, and this is no longer just our complaint, but it is the European Commission's objection, that Croatia does not do what it has promised through the announced reforms, and on the other hand, it is an even bigger problem that the dynamics of attracting funds from the European Funds are not going as announced, which is one of the pillars of economic growth and filling the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And certainly these measures concerning forestry, which are well put into the rural development measures programme, I am sorry that it is late, and here it is, we recently had a report on the Committee on Agriculture, reorganised rural development programmes and the withdrawal of funds. For example, in measures 4.1, 4.2, somewhere around 60% is called, 50% is in front of the contract, and only 10% is not paid. If this pace continues, then we do not see this quick chance for economic growth and development or agriculture, nor forest activities in our area, and with the aim of preserving life in rural areas and enabling the development of our and the OPG, and I have already said that we have not taken advantage of this opportunity, to withdraw funds for the burned areas, and here we also have the opposition of our europarliamentaries to contribute to the EU's general objective, to the reduction of emissions, at least 40% to 2030, that Croatia has not accredited our valuable and protected forests in the quota trading system and there is a series of opportunities for negotiations and attempts to obtain new European funds. So I hope that the same debate will take place and that we will be more active in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76379	Thank you. The next replica of a colleague, Makar Bozica, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76380	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear colleague, you've touched yourself in your OCFSH debate, but you've talked a lot about the economic usability of the forest. You've put particular emphasis on what you disagree with, which is to export our logs or boards out. Exports to the EU and Croatian forests are not sold directly but are sold to those economies engaged in certain activities. You probably know that all of them are classified in 8 categories, that most of them have multi-year contracts that they make up then a year, that the prices themselves are equal for everyone except have some extra rebates but that's irrelevant. But what I think and what our finalists would be extremely pleased with is that they get quality wood, get what they're looking for, so they're in the finish class from 6 to 8 come on, or 5 to 8, that they can get the raw material they're looking for, whether it's F1 or what they need, and after what they're left with, they're going and going according to the needs of all the wishes and needs of everyone else. It would also point out that as far as controls are concerned, namely, our economies claim to have too much control from the Croatian forests because every year there are some additional tables, they even have to send a invoice every day for the product that they have supplied by the recipient or with the mailing list or CMR if the goods are exported. After that, there's still a series of controls going on, but I'm saying, I think this would be an stimulation in my opinion, would you agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76381	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76382	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, we recently passed the Law on the Monitoring of Transport of Wood and Wood Products, precisely with the aim of strengthening control, so that they, I say, would not, knowingly speaking, have been exporting logs or semi-products of wood, and that there is no idea of traceability from where it came from, how it came from, because there are also abuses, especially when it comes to private forests, and we certainly need that law in that part. Of course I agree with you, too, that we must always see an account that we do not put too much legal burden on our economy, our companies, and that this tax pressure, it is often an objection from them and too much and inspection supervision. However, if we want to be a member of the EU, and we want to be organized, we need to be able to condition it, but what I am saying is that, through these models of raw materials placements towards our wood industry, we need to be a little more flexible, listen to their needs, and as long as there is a need for our wood industry, I would not allow the export of any logs. And the fact that our wood processing industry is growing, that the need for our products, especially the final ones that are competitive on the European market, is growing, that we must also through other tax policies especially when it comes to exporters, that we are constantly saying that the state has to find models to help them because of the strong exchange rate, that we are certainly keeping those 53,000 jobs with a tendency to be jobs tomorrow and 60,000 jobs. And if we act together, both the Croatian forests and the wood industry, if we think about the economic development of Croatia, then I see a brighter future for the wood industry and we will have better quality forest management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76383	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Liposjak Tomislav, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76384	Thank you, Vice President. Coliga Vlaović, a few things, mentioned that forest owners do not have the necessary knowledge, expertise to observe, for example, pests and that there is a need to jump in Croatian forests or ministry. In fact, none of them expect it. That is why we also have an advisory agricultural service that does so, among other things, we recently had a law in the Assembly in the congregation, so we could hear much more about it. As for the problems of urban forestry, I agree with you there is a problem but I think that it should first be addressed at the route of the Faculty of Forests, students' associations and chambers, to define their relations, if this fails, to be transferred to a higher level rather than to the regulation of certain rights. As far as ecocids are concerned, so it's just biodiversity, native species and orchards, you would mention the rotten trees that we have to leave at 1 ha, because of the doubles are deeply embedded in many regulations of forestry, so it's not disputed for me. And the thing that impressed me most was that you mentioned one of the forest oaks as a cemetery, quoting Joseph Kozarac, a very famous writer of ours, but I would say the most famous Croatian forester, or forester, as he liked to call himself. And I'd like to say what we're talking about, and they're not naked, it's a young forest. Forests are mastered in several ways, among other things, by the regular way that the Slavonic oak is mastered and cannot grow in the shade and in order for thousands of young plants to grow, we must cut down this steep tree that is above it. So I'd just mention that they're not naked, it's actually a young forest just with that difference that it's not 140 years old, but it's a year, two or three years old. Because if Slavonic forests weren't dominated in exactly the way we're talking about in one negative aspect right now, that's one construction site, I can guarantee you that we wouldn't be talking about forests here today, but we would be talking about wheat or rays that would grow in such areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76385	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76386	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I agree with you that the work carried out by the workers of the Croatian Forests through the cutting is always so observed, I quoted Kozarca for the reason that this is the experience of a local population that is not referred to the profession and professional forest management, and they always see the problem of why so much and why everything is cut down. I know that the foresters are working in accordance with the law and according to their profession and I am congratulating all the foresters who have preserved Croatia's forests in Croatia to this day, we are also well known throughout Europe that one of our forests is still renewable and that we manage the forests in a good way. We can be examples. I'm also 250 years of forestry in the Republic of Croatia. And here I also want to publicly praise here the Nova Gradiška Forest Management, which is one of the most profitable within the Croatian forests, but surely it also keeps it safe to preserve biodiversity and to return those satins to the form they were before the cut. What's there is one dilemma why there's such a difference in the data on the label that's been cut annually. Is that 7 million or 5.4 million cc's? And why and whether the label is included and the part that we have through these climate change that happened both from the icy and from the fire, because I think we need to make sure that it's not overremembered then and that this log, that surplus doesn't appear on the market, and it disrupts the price ratio. So that's where I discussed it. And as for colleagues who finished urban forestry, they've already written to all the competent institutions. I've already asked the secretary of state. He replied that he had sent questions both to the State University and to the university and had not yet received answers. It can't stay that way, it's unsustainable. We need to make it possible for these people to get a job tomorrow if they're already out of college. They have to get... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76387	Thank you. That's what ended the debate on behalf of the clubs. Now we continue with individual debates. First is colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76388	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, the distinguished representatives of the ministry. I'm talking about one of Croatia's biggest resources: the forests that should be developed, which should be well managed economically, which should preserve people in areas where they are mainly cut and where wood is used. However, the fact that you are invoking yourself as a legislator by this law is quite a sign that this will help rural development. And in the articles of this proposal, this is not exactly an expression except in Article 67 where you mention that the local self-government pays a forest contribution from 3 and a half to 5% and there are no other specific measures, and this measure is also ridiculous. A few days ago, I was in Gorski Kotar, Slavonia and other areas where there are forests, where it is exploited by the masters and so much damage to local self-government caused by transport and everything on the roads that they cannot cover at all, let alone that there will be snow in the Gorski Kotar. I would ask the Ministry of Agriculture from the Croatian Forests to leave and see what is made of municipal infrastructure in areas where the forest is cut down. That's why the tribals would raise this one, because these municipalities have to be self-sustaining and cities. Here in Gorski kotar means both Vrbovska and Delnice and Chabar in these areas, major damage is also to communication but it is an obligation for local self-government to maintain these roads used and transport wood. That's why I'd like to see it again because in Slavonia it means it's quite rich in forest and mountain cotter and other areas that we have, that should also be seen by the domicile population. MOST said that we are for the sun, for renewable energy sources and of course in these areas is the tree's basic energy material heating. So to them, he's just an entrepreneur who's going to heat up his premises or a man who wants to live and work there, so that from the fourth month of the month, until the fourth month, from the ninth month to the fourth month, the fifth month has to be heated. So first of all, it's important in the service of these people to survive in this area, to make the price more favourable in the areas of the county and the area where the sawmill forests are, to create jobs. Because the entrepreneur doesn't make sense that if it's the same price in both Zagreb and Gorski kotar and Slavonia wood mass, logs, there's no interest in going there because it costs him more heat, maintenance. So the entrepreneur doesn't have any benefits, and they should be paid, asked to work in that area. It means that through the Croatian forests there is a cheaper price in these areas. But it's an interest to keep people living in these areas, to open those sawmills. Of course it is sold in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Croatian forests should think about seeing here in the articles also mention the pasture in these areas, since there is a large area of Croatian forests. I think it would be very important the same because of the domicile population that they can deal with, to increase the number of herding. Of course, there is a problem with wild animals, but that part is not insurmountable, and I believe that there are plenty of pastures in these areas within the forest, so that it could increase there too means that the population in these areas deals with agriculture without any compensation, very small fees. It would even bring down local self-government and regional to them, but with control of course. Otherwise, livestock farming in these areas will also reduce fires. I can talk about Dalmatia, for sure there was more to cattle farming and that no pastures were assigned to those who only received incentives because of these pastures, and not because they were raised by natives like mine in the Cetina region of the mountain were given to people who had absolutely no cattle, nor cared. And these domicillins who hold cattle simply didn't get it because they were set up. Because it's likely that some kind of incentive will be sent to the ministry by a hectare of pastures to get the money. It's a disaster. And people who have livestock, who do cattle, whose only source of income they have to go to Ireland to farm or I don't know where. Therefore, Croatia's forest is a huge potential for the development of livestock, as well as the survival of the domestic population, if we will also use this economic resource in the areas of the county and areas where people live, to make the raw materials cheaper. And of course, this is also problematic 3.5 to 5% to remain human, to remain local administration in areas where this resource from our forest is used. I was really amazed when I saw what those roads looked like to pass those huge trucks. That's what local self-government has to pay for. Of course he doesn't have any living conditions in Gorski Kotar, that the head of these self-governments in those three cities, I was with three mayors, that the leader was forced to pray here for funds to be given to the rams of the road. And Croatian forests centralize money for themselves, of course in this way, to function. The same is true in Dalmatia, we have numerous examples, here I can number, in Sinj we have numerous examples under the pine forest where it is not maintained, it is not clean, and it could be employed by our people domestically, seasonally at least, that the paths are shaken, the average work in the possibility of fire. However, no, these lungs of our cities that are pine forests, lead to problems, when there is a fire because simply, it is not possible to get a fire vehicle, we do not have water pools, which we must, prescribed by law, in these areas. So, together, we all have to solve this problem together and, of course, if I don't see that solution for now, because I can't understand that it's so abandoned that you can't go through it, and it would be a great walk, not just golf course, here you, this law is more intended for golf courses, and less for forest protection, forest restoration, is more for forest expansion in those areas. In fact, these areas of this law are only exploitation fields and centralized these centres from these areas of Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, where they are the richest in forests, including other areas. Instead of focusing everything on the survival of the domicile population in these areas, both for employment, how for the conveniences of the entrepreneur to be cheaper, to open sawmills in Gorski Kotar and Slavonia. You don't do the opposite, so it turns out to be cheaper that tree that comes to Italy and in Italy it's being processed, it's a famous thing, in Italy our logs are being processed and this product is as the finished additional value of selling to us, and from Gorski Kotar our people go to work because they have these qualifications, they have tradition, they go to do carpentry jobs in Italy. Instead of the domicile population dealing with what is tradition, Gorski Kotara is an area under the forest and that we use that resource to keep people alive, not that in the last 5 years 50% of the population has gone, not that they do not have these local self-government enough means to clean snow, but they must... They're taking them there like some imaginary messiah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let's enable decentralisation in these areas, and to develop the economy, where the forest and livestock are, to enable local self-government to cattle, to be grown in these areas. Where game to fence in ways, models like there are everywhere in the world, not centralize money and just be that exploitation field. It is not only in Croatian forests, but also in mineral raw materials, in the area of local self-government. That's why everyone in the village of Dalmatinska Zagora, the area of flat wheels, because the miners and the forests are exploiting fields and 2/3 of Croatia is empty, because we have centralized everything, which is the monopoly taken over by individuals, and that's all coming from the head. From the top, because you live under these lights and you don't really see the situation on the ground. Go, look, see how people live, where they have this greatest potential and resources, which are forests, there are no more people, empty villages, no schools, no children's salary, there's only parents' salaries on the station, but there's no more station, but there's no more what carriers do, instead of being the richest neighborhoods. That there are sawmills, furniture factories, the highest quality wood we have, both in Slavonia and in Gorski Kotar and Lica. And this article, please think carefully, is best only 3.5 to 5%, is it a shame, stealing and robbing of people in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76389	Replica, colleague Lipošchak, here's Tomislav.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76390	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, you mentioned the destruction, i.e. the spending of roads and roads, i.e. infrastructure and I agree with you, it is a huge problem that is growing and greater, but we cannot talk about the forest contribution as a single asset, the only source of financing, i.e. rebuilding and repairing these roads. And what bothers me most is that we constantly refer to the Croatian forests, and I have the impression that whoever listens to us from the side of the Croatian forest can experience as one great demon who goes and eats these roads around these roads. They are one of the stakeholders of the process and pay forest contributions per cubic of the wood they sell, however, we also have carriers, we have gas companies and an even long series of participants, who are in the process. In my view, it is a much bigger problem to control these roads, i.e. traffic on these controls. That it's not happening to us, that the trucks, that are in the so-called. They're the ones who destroy roads and destroy roads. And also these units of local self-government that you mentioned, I know they have huge problems, and we also have a part of the local self-government that the funds of that forest contribution or the kuna don't take advantage of the administration of these roads, or even happens to end the year with neutral means. As for the price of heating, I think even a little bit of a wrong turn of things, we need to figure out whether we want a company that will operate on market principles or social principles. In my view, it would be much more logical for us to think in a way that both the price of the compliment and the heat would be raised, so that the Croatian forests would invest more in the budget from their profits, and that, by means of funds, that is, the way through the Ministry of Regional Development, we would also encourage regional development and demographic recovery in these regional areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76391	Answer, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76392	In this first act, we agreed that simply all the buyers or those who pursue wood mass simply do huge damage to the infrastructure, on the roads of local self-government that are in the area where these vehicles pass, and that's catastrophic, I see, that's amazing. A hole in a hole. And now the local self-government has to do with Vrbovska, Delnice, Chabar or Slavonia at all, and they have to take care of it and they have nothing to do with it. Therefore, I like to say because I ran for this House precisely because of these areas of the day to those areas where we should be much more competitive because we have no transport, there is goods, there are people, there are potentials, traditions in these areas, to make these areas as cheap and competitive as a product and not be cheaper in Italy than our wood mass what is the fact and that our people... Therefore, I always think sovereignly because what I need my country if 2/3 of Croatia is empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I need any law in Croatia that's above Parliament? And we have laws. Well, I'm thinking, these days it's... On the subject that we pay some associations to control us who are going to be above the Parliament, do we enforce some laws, and we have excellent laws, they are not implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course we need to blur things out and not talk about these topics how the Gorski Kotar is empty, how Slavonia is empty, how Dalmatian Zagora and then there would be children. There would be children, they should not pay European Commission associations to come to control us as a body but rather to pay the money we give them, to pay for children's allowances, but only to respect the laws we have and not to implement them, and not to call on what, and that is a huge problem for Croatian society. It is not in the interest of the host population, but in this domestic population with our raw materials it goes to Italy and other countries, from our raw materials where they come from to make products and additional value. And on our market, such products appear, shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76393	Thanks, buddy Bull. We continue with an individual debate following is colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who follow us. We have before us a proposal for the Law on Forests, I will in the first part look at two important articles in the proposal of this law, then I will look back and in general look at this problem of the forest as one great natural wealth of Croatia. I repeat what I said about two, three hours ago, about four, five months ago with the support of HSS and independent representatives, as well as representatives from other parties, I submitted a proposal to amend the Law on Forests to allow citizens in the territory of Croatia to freely collect forest fruits, so mushrooms, asparagus, chestnuts and wild fruit, but unfortunately the ruling majority of HDZ and HNS did not accept this proposal to amend the Forests Act and it was very clear what I wanted to show. Change Croatia considers that our people should be kept in our living space, look at Slavonia, Baranja, look at Banovina, Lika, Gorski Kotar, all sorts of forests, however, less and less people. Our living space is empty, precisely in these parts of Croatia people are feeling more poor than it is in large cities and for this very reason I have suggested that they can freely read in this difficult economic situation when they are living hard, that they can provide for their families as something extra and that they can enjoy the fruits, that they can move freely in the woods. This is where we talk about the proposal exclusively about public-owned forests means state-owned property. Unfortunately, these proposals have been rejected which shows that this ruling coalition has no understanding for a small man, for people living in those poor, rural areas, that they can enjoy the country, in the forests, in the fruits for which they have fought and to which they are bound by that space. I don't understand why it didn't work out. Here on two, three occasions someone mentioned that a decision has been made that it can be read for free, gentlemen, I have looked here at Google, search engine, I would like to see that decision of the Croatian Forests, here in the bill of law clearly states, in Article 38 that the ban on parchment, sand, etc., but also the picking of other forest fruits. So that ban remains, but in one paragraph below, it is said that it can be exceptionally allowed for public forest owners, and these are Croatian forests to be served but with compensation. So it's pretty clear that it doesn't have anything to do with it. But now if there is, please show it to us all, but why have you put it into the law, then get out of the bill. So if it stays in the law of ban and then let it go, write it now, this is the first reading, throw out, adopt the amendment to the bill I've submitted. I stress, do you know how much compensation for picking mushrooms, chestnuts, how many Croatian forests are collected? Not even 100,000 kunas a year. Imagine because of 100,000 kunas that they are harassing citizens that they must obtain permits, whether they can enter the woods of the state, they won't, so you simply contribute to moving out of Croatia and the demographic fall continues. But that's the public familiarity with this proposal that I made, and to my here's the disappointment, think about it, there's one more reading that you're putting into the law anyway. It doesn't matter, I don't matter, call it your article, the amendment, which you want, just let people benefit from it, so don't have to pay for it in this poverty. But there is one proposal for an article of the law that, in my opinion, is much more embarrassing, not to say more dangerous and national stability, security, quote. The 56th proposal of this law, a foreign person without citizenship, cannot acquire ownership of state forests and forest land, now you are listening to this unless an international contract is defined differently. I'm surprised no one here today in the debate mentioned it. Please, so someone can bring a provision into the EU, a directive, that we can and that we simply have to, as a superior law, give or sell to foreign investors of the forest. So that says please remove this supplement, unless the international contract sets out differently. Forests, water, soil, it's not for sale. It shows here which party and which government runs the sovereign or globalist policy. Enough of the service in this country, enough of the service. So, please, get rid of this, get rid of this, I'm warning the citizens, that this is a hole or a canal, that if this law is passed that the woods can be sold, the state woods. We see that the tendency, therefore, is a neoliberal tendency, because unfortunately, the structures, all that have led Croatia so far, they are by verification of the neoliberal options, and they are represented by the social, democratic, folk, like this, but in essence, we see that they are not working, therefore, in the interests of the citizens. Now, I'm passing, so this was by the articles, by the proposals of the new law. Let me say 2, 3 words about forest management, as one great God-given resource for Croatia, see where we came from. So, I'm embarrassed to talk, too critical, but I can't, but I'm talking to arguments, with data. We have, from one situation, already said, had a developed furniture industry, among the most developed in Europe, come to the point of turning Croatia into a large sawmill. Chicken logs and boards are being exported, and somebody's making something here and there. So in such conditions, what happens? And even when we combine that with the exchange rate policy that's been leading the CNB for 23 years, and occasionally I see people who work in the furniture industry what's left, they've been crying for over 15 years and warning them that they've been killed by this kind of kuna course that's been fixed for 23 years. You can't survive about that. So, in forest and wood management policies, wood mass, we should prefer just furniture producers because they produce added value, more expensive products, and so far it has not been, we have not seen it so far. In this context, therefore, we also see how wood mass is sold, so today it is said that wood mass, shapes, logs, on average, are cheaper than in our neighbouring countries. So what did we gentlemen actually burn to? We're exporting our production factors, a little while ago even here to Italy, so basically, that industrial part, the processing, the added value, we're not going to work here, but it just seems a lot to our harm. And I got a letter from students from the Faculty of Forests, the direction of urban forestry, urban forests, where they are asked through the amendment to allow them to do jobs that are predicted to mean for their colleagues, other study programs, but I answered them, that they should do so in cooperation with the university, that their outcomes of knowledge and objects that have to be coordinated and that these young people are allowed to work, not to mean that the course is being desecrated, and that later they can't do what they are trained to do. One more thing to say, you have there that the profit is about 170 million kuna, however, it is shown that Croatian forests have loans of about 150 million kuna, how it is managed, why, therefore, it should get a little more into analysis and obviously some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76395	Thank you, one replica, colleague Felak Damir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76396	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Lovrinović, so let me just correct you in this part of the collection of unannounced forest products, mushrooms and the rest of what you said. The fact that you initiated the amendment of the law and then you were told that it was not resolved by law but by the rule of the Croatian Forests. But here you can take credit for the fact that your initiative has been subject to an amendment to this Regulation, you may not have found it, but on the pages of the Croatian Forests, we inform the public that 20.2.2018 has entered into force by personal mail or e-mail, forest administrations will be granted an annual permit, which will be issued without compensation. The annual authorisation issued shall be valid until 31.12. of the current year, in the area of the management of the forest of the branch which issued the licence. And now it's listed what's needed. So that's on the pages of the Croatian Forests. So that rule states, what are the quantities, meaning up to 3 kg of mushrooms, etc. other forest products, which can be collected without payment, just means, along with annual permits and here, that's what you wanted to solve by law. As you were told then, it should not have been put into the law, but it was settled by this regulation and if it will help the population to remain in their areas, I hope that the Croatian forests here have reacted and I believe in cooperation with the ministry immediately or spotively, respectively, in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76397	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76398	Dear fellow, here's a thank you for this information, I couldn't really find it on the website of the Croatian Forests. And I'm glad I said, I'm not asking for any credit, so don't even tie it to me. It is important that our citizens can collect our fruits and enjoy them. But I'm distracting you again. Shouldn't that be in the law? Therefore, Croatian forests change, something blows on them, so to speak, in 3 or 6 months. I can change the rule again, so, according to that, it needs to be put into law. Too few people, too little to stay in Croatia, let them walk in the woods, these are our national forests, no one will go there to destroy, but people go there to collect something for themselves and their families and they are the best guards. But to move on to another thing, it says the same thing, it's forbidden to pick, jury, etc. But it can be allowed in certain areas. Did Croatian forests, as a public forest owner, make it clear in which parts of the forest it can be carried out. It is known, where goats become, sheep go, there are far fewer fires, let's go to work preventively for once, so not waiting for summer so there's a live crowd and panic, but just by that average, the finger, in certain areas, it acts against fire. It will then be a real strategy and management of the forest, for the greater benefit of all of us, so I hope we all have the same goals when it comes to this God-given resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76399	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague is Tomislav Lipošchak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76400	Thank you, Vice President. Once again, I welcome Mr. Secretary of State and Assistant, and here we have a new Law on the Forests, which is in the first reading, and immediately at the beginning I must express my personal satisfaction, which also through this legislative proposal, recognized the role and importance of the useful functions of the forest at all. I must admit that I have also had concerns about the OKFSH climate that has recently ruled, that we have often mentioned it as a certain imposition, a parafiscal imposition of which few of us benefit from. However, here also in Article 6 of the Law, it is said that the interest of the Republic of Croatia in managing forest ecosystems is to be achieved through several measures, namely 8 measures, including the protection of forests and forest land, as well as the protection and conservation of common useful functions of forests and biodiversity, as well as the provision of means for sustainable forest management, demining of forests and forest land, of which these last 2 items are financed in a well-funded way from the funds for the common beneficial forest functions. Also speaking about measures, the law also cites a national strategy and a national forestry programme. I believe that by just passing, that is, revising some of the existing documents, by making a major shift that we have all agreed more or less here, because it would remove many misunderstandings and disagreements, both in forestry and in other branches, which are related to it. It would also refer to Article 5 of the law, which defines, that the forest is not considered among other things and the culture of short periods on agricultural land. How are we the law on wooden cultures of short periods in art. 5. Defined that, apart from agricultural land, short-circuited crops can also be established on forest land, I think it would be desirable to define these cultures by concept or status. Whether we consider it a forest or we don't consider it a forest. As regards the protection of forests and forest land, it is defined that their protection, i.e., the implementation of forest order in forests to be carried out by a loon, means a person with a minimum SSS forest direction and with other compliance with the prescribed conditions. And that middle and large forest owners, forest protection, while small ones can decide whether to do it on their own or in the organization of the forest owners' association. This second option in my opinion is much more effective and better, especially for reasons, which also allows through the law the actual co-financing of the security service, by the advisory service. Here I now have one question, actually a proposal, that the ministry prescribes or in some other way decides, in case the service co-finances the guard service, i.e., the protection of the forest, that the conditions are then the same as those for the state forest. I'm saying that, so let's say from the shoes of all those fellow forest technicians who are on the labour market and who, in this way, could actually get into the system, i.e., employment. Equally in Art. 50. The law defines that in forests owned by the Republic of Croatia, natural persons, i.e. locals, can be made firewood for their own needs up to 20 cubic metres, under certain conditions. In my opinion, it would be desirable to define the concept of the local population a little more precisely, for reasons to avoid certain abuses of this provision, but to make it easier for that staff of the main Croatian forest, in fact, to say so for issuing fire permits, precisely because of these manipulations and different interpretations. Art. The 52nd Law also defines the possibility of detaching individual forest land from the forest economic area and it is about land that is naturally owned by the Republic of Croatia, but which in the cataster is defined as a hurricane, garden, meadow, pasture, orchard, olive grove, vineyard, reed or marshland. Here we would stress and underline the word "separation", not the obligation for one very important reason, namely, in past periods, we had the opportunity to see that similar legal provisions could be misused, so that we had cases that in certain normative acts that prescribed either the number of people or the means for certain areas, i.e., forest economic areas, that in the beginning we rejected areas from and out of calculations that could come out of these provisions outside the law, and so we came to one least to say, the strange situation of the example is in the last river rule where we, in this way, threw out almost half of the forest guards in the management of Split forest, and we know how much their role is in the protection of forests, especially in Dalmatia. In addition to Article 67, which defines the forest contribution, it would point out that the necessity of proper use, i.e. the spending of funds that are thus paid into the special accounts of the local self-government unit, has already already been discussed here today several times about the destruction of roads under the burden and necessity of repairs or the same. A large part of the local self-government units in a good and satisfactory way are available with these resources, however, we have units of local self-government that use a small part of that contribution precisely in this direction towards forest roads and unfortunately we have units of local self-government that have neutral assets from those positions at the end of the year. A few more words in general about the supervision of the implementation of this law. I think the law is relatively well written and actually implementation is the most important, so just so that if that law enforcement doesn't schedule itself, we won't have a discussion about deforestation, traffic destruction and the like. In addition, Article 66 of the Law states that the funds of the KEFŠ are also financed by the co-ordination of works financed from the funds of the same and the fees of the OCFŠ carried out by the service. It might be wise to consider extending this provision to a public forest owner or other licensed performers simply for reasons not to be discriminated against in this way. And the reports of the home Committee on Agriculture, we have seen that a good part of the objections if not all the observations of the chamber have been respected and recorded so I don't think there's any point in repeating them here, I'm just going to point out that they went in the direction of recognition and in fact sensitivity to the compensation for the KEFŠ and the fees themselves. We also mentioned here and the problem with the students of urban forestry, I will repeat my position, I think that this problem should first be solved in relation to the University of Forests, students' associations and chambers, and if it does not come up with a satisfactory way, then we should raise it to the level of the law itself. And finally, here I hope that soon, in the name of the ministry, we will return only the name of forestry, we have heard in today's debate how much we are all related to the forest, how important the forest is, so I think that in the future we should consider that our parent ministry in its name also has a name for forestry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76401	Thank you. Before continuing the individual debate, welcome students of the Food and Technology School from Zagreb and their professors, welcome. We're going to continue our individual debate. We're going to have a colleague named Veligaj Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76402	Thank you, Vice President. Here is a colleague and colleagues, at the end of today's debate on the Law on Forests, for which we have actually characterized the opposition here as one recycled law that is passed except for this OkFŠ and liberating indeed for a large number of people, does not bring anything new. What we could see from the debate is the difference about one concept, we from the opposition advocated a decentralised approach in the management of Croatian forests while it is logical that the HDZ that established the central state model protects a centralized model that actually most of the funds go to the central. That's what was expected of them. Why decentralisation? So decentralisation of the management of Croatian forests for the reason that Croatia is one of the few European countries that has almost 80% of the forests and forest land in its ownership, therefore the state-owned enterprise of the Croatian Forests. Therefore, according to publicly available data, Croatia's forests as the largest employer in state forestry annually cut about 5 million cc's of wood mass and generate income of around 2 billion kuna. The largest of these revenues are generated from the sale of wood raw materials, so here of course there are no data for the forests of the eligible forest owners who, after the return of the property, have more and more, with growing forest surfaces and actually have an increasingly significant share. So far, the Forests Act, in Article 65, has laid down for legal and physical rooms carrying out product sales by exploiting the forest that it is mandatory to pay a forest contribution of 5%, so for assisted areas and 3.5% for other areas, therefore it is also used to build municipal infrastructure. Therefore, the obligation is prescribed for all but most of all we know that this compensation is paid to units of local self-government by the company of the Croatian Forest and the annual amount paid is about 50 million kuna. I personally believe and here from all the debates we could hear that came from opposition lines that this amount is far too small in view of the business results that Croatian forests achieve and that we should return much more to local self-government in whose areas these forests are located. So there's one initiative, there's one pressure to increase this forest contribution because it's one way to invest and increase standards in rural areas where there's actually everything, almost all forests and we know that in these areas, our poorest units of local self-government are located, so the units of local self-government that have the lowest original income per capita and that literally each kuna is extremely important for investing in an increase in living standards in their area. Here's the county I come from, it's about Krapina-Zagorje County, where by the ownership structure of 44,000 ha of the forest, 34 000 ha are private forests and 10,000 ha is state-owned, so by this relationship we are equal to the ratio between state and private forests that exist in developed EU countries. However, these state forests are the smallest yet surface and are scattered throughout the county into small complexes, so they are away from the main roads. Of course, around the private forests they can say that they are also decomposed, they are quite an average area of some 0.5 ha per owner and of course they are owned by a good deed unedited. Therefore, we cannot expect that some amount of forest contribution will be charged from these private forests. What's the problem with this structure that we have in Krapina-Zagorje County, so in exploiting these state forests, so to ship troops, trucks with trailers, high axle loads and those for our narrow unclassified roads that aren't built for such heavy loads are actually damaged by the greatest work. And as most of our transportation is carried out by private entrepreneurs and they often load their trucks in order to reduce costs, and of course there is even more damage to the roads themselves. Now one interesting thing is to say that Croatian forests charge passengers a fee for the use of their roads, but the same fee is not charged for the use of unclassified roads that are within the jurisdiction of local self-government units. Therefore, Croatian forests and transporters use these roads without compensation and, of course, because of this mentioned before the weight of the cargo, they are greatly damaged without paying in most cases any compensation for this damage and maintenance. So, we should definitely take this if the law, whether through the regulations to try to find a solution through which Croatian forests, the company, you get to compensate for that damage to the unclassified roads that I repeat once again, is largely located in units of local self-government that unfortunately have low original incomes and great needs for maintaining municipal infrastructure and for other needs that are in their jurisdiction. What I'm going to say is, therefore, the Republic of Croatia is of course rich in the valuable forests of shell oaks, whales, beech, so there is one great demand for wood growers, so it is known that the prices of these wood varieties in the Republic of Croatia are about 30% to 40% lower than in the EU, and that we have a lack of wood, therefore the most profitable in this area are wood growers who received relatively cheaper raw materials which are later sold as a semi-product, final product, heating, pellets, etc. By good work are these owners of woodworking facilities and foreign investors, they earn, of course, a certain profit, there is no one against foreign investors, but what is not well certainly that we could have organised it better and that even more of our wood growers could have derived profit from it. Why am I saying that? I am speaking for a reason, once again I will return to the fundamental thread of my presentation in all my replicas, a large part of the budget unfortunately goes to the maintenance of these roads that are destroying Croatian forests, of course simply because of the need for extraction, it is simply such an necessity, however, I repeat again, it is not good that it remains exclusively on the budgets of local units and, unfortunately, through this amount of forest contribution, it is impossible to maintain, perhaps several local units that have this greater income and can, unfortunately, those that have less income, which I am generally talking about the original incomes and revenues from the forest contribution that I can't do, this percentage here remains the same, I think should still be increased and that, however, we should show a decentralised step that I believe is necessary to do in every law through which we can do so. So decentralisation, greater transparency, I will also say better coordination between all state institutions, institutions, state-owned enterprises, of course Croatian forests, so that certain paradoxes that are happening because of this coordination may be avoided. Here I'm going to mention a paradox that happened to us recently in the city, so we had, you know, that according to the Agricultural Land Act, the rules on agritechnical measures were adopted, so it's the responsibility to oversee the agricultural directors then you had a situation for the agricultural director to come out, to find that it was agriculturally abandoned, that the owner should edit it, but the cadastre issues a geodetic elaborate which, due to several beech, oak or whatever, determines that this is forest land. Such situations should be prevented and only possible if better coordination exists. Of course, we have also made little use of EU funds to improve our forest infrastructure and to allow many more people to live than that, the most valuable resource the Republic of Croatia has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76403	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Welligaj, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Martha Luc-Polanc, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76404	Thank you. So here's how today's entire debate is seen by the opposition going in that direction, and I support it, and I'm still saying that this law, it's been announced to us as a new forest law. We had the Forest Act '05, with certain changes and additions and when you read this law in detail you see that it is one consolidated text of the old law with two or three cosmetic changes. Nothing in forestry as an activity will change significantly with this Law. The direction of movement in forestry is, it remains the same, and you are aware, the profession is aware that forestry is very detached, that nothing has been done under that plan for years and that the consequences can be very devastating. First and foremost, it's bad in this law, which is that it hasn't changed the governance model. You mean, we continue with that trend that our forests, we have mainly, we have already found in the debate, we in the Republic of Croatia have mostly forests in state ownership and these forests are managed by a commercial society. Several speakers here have said that forests are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and they are managed by a company of commerce, and we know that in the Company Act, the basic purpose of each company's existence is to make profits. On the other hand, we have water that is also good of the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is managed by the institutions. So, I think you should consider though that this model, if it was once perhaps appropriate, has now proved to be very insufficient. Here's when you analyze what kind of company it is. Croatian forests are a very centralized company. You have a directorate with one 200 people in Zagreb employees, on the ground you have 16 forest administrations that are divided into smaller branches, these are forests. Many colleagues here have highlighted this decentralisation problem that can be applied specifically to forest management. If we, in particular, come from Brod-Posavina County, if we in Slavonia have rich forests, which is why our local units do not have the benefits of exploiting these forests. Why does the total income derived from the use of the forest go to Zagreb? So the problem with this company is that these smaller units on the ground, they're not your own. So, you have a forest management that exists as some bond between the Directorate and the Forest, and they don't have any authority at all, there are employees of people who are educated, with high-end facilities, who have no responsibility, completely unused within that profession. So this is the basic problem, and it is precisely in this way that the way of forest management, how the way of management of Croatian forests is entrusted to a commercial society, that is exactly how the Law went. So, in the law, we have mostly the exploitation and use of that wood mass, and we don't have enough, we haven't focused enough attention on the protection of the forest. Here is a detail that also stretched during the debate, which is very important in the work of the Croatian Forests, that they have their wood mass, that is some data in the Croatian forests that exist, that they sell their wood mass, meaning that our wealth is 90% sold through the contract. And only 10% goes to bid. I came up with the data of some bidding which was held in 20.10.2017 where the prices of the oak tree were 50% higher than the prices of the Croatian forests. So, interest, so someone has an interest in buying at the auction, and it's worth it. So the question arises why Croatian forests are forced in such a way to protect the wood-processing industry that they have under any price to give their raw materials. Especially considering that this wood-processing industry is privately owned. Of course, there are very influential names that run that wood-processing industry. There are also foreign owners, and you know the workers there are oppressed. So I'm asking you, who's making that extra profit now? If they receive goods at the lowest prices in the EU and on the basis of a contract that allows them goods over a long period of time, where does this money end from the forests that are owned by all of us citizens? So these are the problems inside, these are the problems that are just appearing in that model and that model is exhausted, that model should certainly change, and especially if we really think they are forests, and if we want to respect that constitutional provision, that they are protected constitutional values, then it thinks that they should be treated accordingly. I have already cited several times during the replicas I have used, which is that there are not enough elements in this Law relating to the protection of the forest. So here, I'm going to do two or three examples again. So, from the Law, and this business model itself, we do not have prescribed how many Croatian forests must profit from their incomes, to return to the protection of the forest. So what's that amount that's got to come back to? Is that 10%, 15%, 30%, and we don't have it prescribed, nobody controls it. Furthermore, we do not care enough about the health status of the forest, and on the other hand we have a new article that now explains extensively that we are changing the escort with a new name. It's a cargo manifest. I don't know if there's any point in a freighter's list anymore since we know that all today's companies have their accompanying papers and are asking a question which is more the purpose of the freighter. I also cited this and again ask the question because the secretary of state did not answer immediately at the beginning, so I expect that in these final parts they will now answer, and that is how we determine whether the cutting of the forest is larger or lower, or lower, should be from the growth of the forest, since we do not basically have the foreseeable cutting of the forest that is dried up. So basically we have a regular cutting, and on the other hand we have a certain drying of the forest, so the question is, is our cut smaller or larger than growth. And in the end, I'd like to point out, so this model, which I think is necessary, needs to go more to decentralize, help the local population. We today in the Croatian forests, we have a shortage, and that is precisely in that direction not to invest enough in the protection of the forest. Today, in the Croatian forests, we have a shortage of logars, and in Slavonski Brod you have an annual schooling class of forest technicians who can't get a job. It's another segment of protection where we protect, where we save in the protection of the forest, and we spend on some other things that are not in the interest of rebuilding and protecting the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76405	Thank you, dear colleague Luc Polance, we have two replicas, dear colleague Damir Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76406	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Polanc, I could agree with the good part of your exposure, only your exposure is falling off what your colleagues from your SDP Club have been saying so far and most of your colleagues from the opposition, who have indicated that as much wood raw materials as possible should be processed in the local area where it is obtained from the forest. And you've advocated that as much wood as possible be sold on auctions. I can tell you from experience, that if more raw materials are to be sold on auctions, the truth is, there will be higher prices, short-term, but all that wood raw material will end up on trucks, as someone said in Vienna or somewhere out there. Because our wood industry doesn't have enough cash capacity to track some foreign predators who will risk and, if necessary, a certain loss in a shorter period of time, to come up with valuable wood raw materials, such as our Slavonic oak or biligor beech, etc. and when that happens and if they bought it, our wood industry would lose its goods, which it now has guaranteed by annual and multi-annual contracts, resulting in a loss of a large number of jobs. So be careful when you speak in contrast, among other things, I know that you probably want our wooden treasure to be used as best as possible, but something that looks like this on a very short scale can bring great damage in the long run. We had a short period of increased bids, just when Mr. Pavelic was headed by the Croatian Forests and then it resulted in a team that the wood industry had nothing to process, so it quickly gave up. Therefore, let us be careful when we present things, for they can do great harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76407	Thank you, colleague Felak, for your response, colleague Luc Polance, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76408	Dear colleague Felak, I still believe that if you, the amount of your wood mass that you give on the contract, if that amount is 90% of the wood mass, I still believe that it is too much and that it cannot possibly be in the interest of responsible management and forest management. So there must always be a certain balance, with that and when you do those contracts, that first of all we must define what our interest is and what products and semi-products are, which will eventually be exported after that woodworking industry. So I think there's a lot of irregularities in those mountains, and I think they're hurting the company itself completely, and eventually they're restoring and maintaining the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76409	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Luc Polance. We have another replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76410	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives, distinguished MPs. In your presentation you said and mentioned that this law is the one that will bring only tiny cosmetic changes. Here, I'll read it, or I'll say what I realized, so I don't know if it's cosmetic, whether it's important or significant. The Wood Industry Development Fund, which is adopted by this law, circus 80 million kuna, suspension of fees for 181 operators with income below 3 million kuna and amendment of Article 51 of the procedure for the deforestation of forests or forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and the forest economic area for the construction of entrepreneurship zones. Here, my answer, my comment, your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76411	Thank you, colleague Kirina, for the answer of my colleague Luc Polance, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76412	Thank you. Dear fellow, you have now listed only 3 elements, which, it could have passed in the amendments to the Law on the Forests, and these are mostly, what you have stated, are amendments to the objective of encouraging the economy and economy, and here we are talking about the Law on Forests, which should not only be directed at the purpose of exploiting and managing, but also at maintaining the forest. So here you were talking about one, about a law that was supposed to be much more comprehensive, and these are just, I'm staying with that it's only cosmetic changes, or only partial changes that could go with changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76413	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Martha Luc-Polanc. We have the final word, on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State, Zeljko Kraljević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76414	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to thank you all for a truly comprehensive debate, on constructive proposals, and I believe that on the basis of these proposals as well as the conclusions of the Assembly Committees, for the second reading, we will prepare a quality final proposal of the Forest Act, which will ensure for all of us the development of the wood industry sector, the creation of added value, the employment of people right in rural space, where raw materials and growth, where there is tradition, where we have organized education. But most importantly, we will ensure sustainable development and management of our forests and preserve our forests for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76415	I thank the Secretary of State for this closing statement, this concludes the debate. I thank another State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Zeljko Kraljić, Assistant Minister Ivica Francetic, for the reasons of this bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76416	Proposal for a forest law, first reading, P.Z. No. 308. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a forest law is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes: 78 for, 3 abstentions and 10 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76417	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2016. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The island law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. I would like to call on the national secretary of state at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Mrs. Nikolina Klaic to give us an explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76418	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on Islands, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2016. This report shall show how the Law on Islands and its effects, as well as the investment and engagement of the public sector body or the investment of the central authorities of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority in the development of the island and Peljesac peninsula in 2016. During the preparation of the proposal for a Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, relevant data from 74 institutions have been collected. Public sector bodies carried out investment in islands in two ways, through direct investment from budgets, grants from EU funds and own funds, and through investment through credit lines. In 2016, a total of €1.71 billion was invested, with € 1.28 billion being grants, and €432.35 million being loans in the form of loans. Out of the total amount of funds invested in 2016, around € 127.61 million relates to EU funds. The report, which you have seen before you, focused on the transport connection of the island to the mainland and the island to each other amounting to 375.4 million kuna, transport infrastructure amounting to 375.7 million kuna, municipal infrastructure amounting to 214 million kuna, environmental protection and energy efficiency, 58.1 million kuna, economy and economy support of 449.1 million kuna, energy and electronic communications infrastructure amounting to 97.6 million kuna, investments in a culture of 33.9 million kuna, education 32.9, health care 11.9, social care at 2.5 million kuna, investment through return of income taxes of 37.1 million kuna and a series of other investments in somewhat lower amounts. This report shows that the public sector was primarily focused on investment in strengthening the economy and supporting the economy, improving the transport link between the island and the mainland and building transport infrastructure, which is in fact the biggest problem that islanders face, or the problem of life on the island, and 1.2 billion kuna has been invested for these purposes this year. The highest amount of funding in the reporting year was invested by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, a total of 388.8 million kuna, most of which were singled out in the area of transport connectivity or the promotion of regular maritime lines in public coastal transport. For the purposes of this Regulation, a total of EUR 303,76 million was allocated to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure through the subsidisation of 12 shipowners in 2016 for the maintenance of a total of 51 ferry, ship and speedboat lines. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure co-financed and bridge for Most Krk why 24.13 million kuna was paid in 2016 by the concessionaire of the Rijeka-Zagreb Motorway Society. of that amount, €6.8 million refers to co-financing of the transition of legal persons, and €17.33 million to co-finance the transition of natural persons across the Krčko Bridge. This measure enables all categories of bridges not to pay natural and legal persons who have a residence or seat on a bridged island or on an island connected with a bridged island by means of a bridge crossing. In addition to the advantages of maritime transport, islanders have the right to a number of other privileges applied under the Island Law. This should primarily highlight the subsidisation of public island road transport, enabling free bus transport for primary and secondary school students, students, pensioners, persons over 65 years of age and persons with disabilities and their ensuing island residence. For this measure in 2016, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds singled out 27.8 million kuna. There is also a measure to subsidise the price of water to island households why, during the reporting period, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has singled out 9.7 million kunas and this measure refers to equating the price of water to island households supplied with water by a water carrier or a road vehicle with a price of water charged on land in a coastal island county. The measure aimed at affecting the development of the island economy is the granting of small-value support to island employers to preserve jobs in 2016. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has singled out more than 8.5 million kuna. Also through a small capital investment programme on islands, the same ministry invested a total of 14.9 million kuna in 2016, assigning from island cities, municipalities and counties to projects in their areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76419	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Ms. Nikola Klaic, for this explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76420	Thank you very much. Dear Ministry representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about islands that give a hundred times more to the central state than the state gives them back. It's not just a question of these governments, it's a question of all the governments so far, because we need to know that the profits we have from tourism from these beautiful islands, maybe individuals have, I can see that a colleague is rebelling, only from the maritime good, how much he earns, that it was directed towards local self-government, i.e. If it was directed towards people living as a community, there would certainly be a lot more people. It may be funny, but it is factual, and we can repeat it, repeat all concessions and beaches and on the beach is a maritime good, and how much is the brake from the very border of maritime goods that are not defined for various reasons, so it is a whole series of things that can be done on islands for a better life. We do not have the courage to help islanders, fishermen, and indeed it was their job to declare an exclusive economic belt, and by doing so, means fishing fleets that literally destroy our seas, and by convention, ours are taking out a set of ours, fish in the Adriatic Sea, in our waters, therefore in these areas what should be developed, is not developing. People get a concession that was shown to them as on the beach Gold War, that they will invest 80 million kuna, but you have nothing to invest on the beach, only you can unfortunately transfer one from one beach to another beach, because simply God gave us such a nature. I expect that the islands and transportation of passengers, that's what you said that the lines that are secured in a larger number, should be respected, but not enough because we need to know that it's in the interest to keep, because by joining the EU we'll have a commitment, now the market will also appear, there will be competition on the market that will reduce the price, and our domestics will lose, there will be losses, because the fact that foreign corporations that don't mean anything in a season will not protect us, and they will be in summer when the tourist season of course works, and who will work if our carrier, such as Jadrov, fails or collapse, like anything that crashed in that competition, we need to protect our transport company that will transport people in the winter. Surely no stranger will work there when there is no interest in the foreign fleet. So I think that we try to think sovereignly about our islands, our Adriatic which is rich, about people in those areas, in my Split-Dalmatia County, would mean a lot to the Ravca-Drvenik link, because more to Split, from Hvar to Drvenik there would be about 20 minutes, with it being open on the highway, but in 2009, there was an announcement of construction of this traffic vertical which would really reduce, instead of now traveling hours to Hvar from our coast, there would really be a connection between this island of Hvar and some Central Dalmatian islands that would be much closer to Drvenik and I expect that this project that went far away with documentation and I believe there is no reason for the island of Hvar to travel 3.4 hours to the coast when this way will be only 20 minutes away. Also the bridge on Ciovo, which has been promising for years, which would also be significant for that part, I expect that it means that in our coast people will stay alive, deal with this traditional, of course modernized fishing, agriculture, everything that is possible on the island, because they have potentials and resources, but in addition to increasing some of the certain lines that we are listening to here, I think it's not enough. And we have to protect the domestic carrier company, because if our competition really destroys it, because other Member States have been asking for 20, 30, 40 years to avoid competition in these areas like transport, because competition will only work where it can earn. She won't be driving 2, 3 passengers, 4 from the island, and that's facts. Reports are what they are, of course, that I am not satisfied as a representative from an area where there are a large number of islands, but I expect that in the future and that part of Croatia, islands and the Adriatic Sea, as a territorial part of the Republic, will be protected sovereignly from emigration, from indulging in those areas of capital that does not look after the domicile population, and I expect that there will be more and more crying of children in those areas, and less and less crying will be heard in ports where people leave the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76421	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, for this debate, we have one replica. Dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76422	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I've been reporting since you said something false, and then you need to fix it. So you said a hundred times more coming back than you get, I don't think that's the case, because then our budget would be around 200 billion kuna, and it's not like that. And we see the figures that the state directs towards the islands, at a level of over a billion and a half kuna each year, and that's how it's been for almost 20 years. And these are not insignificant means, and they certainly have made it possible for the island to live a better life. Secondly, you said you needed to maintain our lines as a sovereign, i.e. our boaters, etc. that no foreigners come to us, for your information, competitions for all ferrys, fast-board and shipping lines have been carried out and no foreigners have come to us, so, and concessions have been given for 6 and 10 years, depending on the line to the line, so that the state has long, long before you thought it might have already provided the acts to which it could have been carried out and we can say that Jadrolini, but private boaters are also doing their job for which they were preparing and for which they are doing a great benefit to us daily. And third, maritime well-being. I remember your debates at the Law on concessions, your predictions and accusations of this government selling and destroying natural resources, above all maritime well-being. After a year and a few months of experience, it turns out that you missed and that was purely politics, because we are waiting for the Law on Maritime Good, Marine Ports that regulates the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76423	I thank my colleague, Boric. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76424	Even if I had known everything was so great and wonderful since you were in the Croatian police, I would really not have run for anything, and of course these lights here in Parliament do not paint, the lights cannot be really painted in Zagreb as in Split-Dalmatia County. I really don't know what you saw bad in my words about what the HDZ government promised in 2009 or 2008 was now Sanader's or Kosoric's. I don't know... already in 2009 if it meant Ravca Drvenik would be a great project that Hvar would only... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] islands only 20 for proximity, only 20 minutes would be enough to get to shore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Dalmatian hinterland, the Vrgorje part, the property part, as well as the part of Herzegovina that is in the hinterland and moving out would develop. So we'd combine that very important part. I don't see what I said wrong. As for beaches and concessions, then the Golden War is a very simple story. We are in Makarska, we can go to Split, in Bena also where it is necessary for the coalition potential either to give to another coalition partner and the president of the county... I mean, we have that million, but I think the value of marine goods is as good as there is and how much money is made in the areas of the island and the coast a hundred times less returns from the central state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The central state, regardless of the government, is central to Boric, and therefore we have fewer and fewer inhabitants, and mostly on the islands, mainly which means the results are what they are. Maybe you see it differently, I repeat again, maybe when you enter this hall, these lights shine brightly, and reality really isn't like that. Because I'm often on islands in my county, even in neighboring Sibenik-Kninska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76425	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. The next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76426	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a report on the implementation of the Island Act in 2016 and for me as an islander, and I'm glad we have two club presidents, two of the biggest parties that are islanders in the House. We also have ministers in the government who are islanders, that politics towards Croatian islands has continuity and that these reports that have been carried out since 2000 show from year to year one constant concern of the state about this resource that is not really small. When we say that there are 78 islands in the Croatian part of the Adriatic, 524 islets and 642 rocks in total 1244 land formations surrounded by four sides of the sea simply shows how much we actually have a wealth and, above all, a divergence of the coast, a natural resource that we can use in many areas. 3259 km square is the total area of the island, and the length of the coastal line is 4398 kilometers. Just looking at this report from the perspective of financial resources, you can't get a picture of the real investments, i.e. the real effects of the investment of all governments so far in the development of the island, including the 2016 Government, so that only figures cannot show what is really in the area of the island, and sometimes create a false perception, because all other representatives from other parts of the Republic of Croatia often ask questions and what is then being invested in other areas of the Republic of Croatia and is then the best example that we may be concerned only with the basis of this data, only about one space or territory of the Republic of Croatia. What do the data say? Last year 2016, the total amount of money invested is billions and 717 million kunas, of which one billion and 280 million grants, 432 million kunas of Croatian Bank's credit funds for reconstruction and development, and another 127 million from EU funds. When we divide it into fifty local self-governments on the islands and Peljesac peninsula, we can take out certain averages to help each of these local self-governments, but of course that would also not be the exact data. I think that all governments have really shown concern for this area so far, and I think that this is primarily the result of one fact that we have, and this is that, in the 1990s, the National Development Programme of the Croatian Islands was adopted on the basis of which the Island Act was created, and then this Island Law was changed only three times. The last time in 2006 in a way that we have one let's call it a complete concern and a picture of the state's concerns in the area. 12 years have passed since the last law was changed, and I think all the conditions have been created for the new island law to be passed, that it respects the time in which we now live. All the effects of the laws that have been reached over the past twenty years and to propose some new measures and some new areas within which we can achieve space of breakthrough and progress when we talk about islands and island populations. Looking at what's important to us, I say in this segment this report can't fully show a picture across all the areas that we are interested in from health, social, education and education, from transport, from some other parts of our lives and sometimes we have a picture looking at and of course our media and what they offer us as a picture of the island, we can often see that in the winter months we have one picture of the island, in the summer months we have a completely different picture of the island, which means that it's undeniable to live on islands in two times, seasonal and off-season times. That seasonal part would somehow stretch from the 5th to the 10th and out seasonally from the 11th to the 4th month, and surely that moment should be important to us when we think about the new Island Law, because we can't realize this seasonal life just that we have to accomplish everything for 5 months to survive 12 months throughout the year. When we talk about the Island Law, I still think it's really a good story that has provided both status and quality of life, because it has provided us with several measures that are important for all age groups living on the islands, that it has taken into account the development of the island long ago, that it has taken into account and that we also have bridged islands, that we have islands that have only one line or that we have islands that have multiple lines, that it has taken into account certain specificities which, of course, need to put the context of today's time in which we live. Well, here I am, given this debate in light of what the new law should offer us, perhaps here I can say a few of my thoughts that perhaps the Ministry of Regional Development might appreciate when it proposes a new Law on Islands, given that I have already seen the draft law that was and at the debate, I also think of the island council as the advisory body of the Minister, when we had the last time on the island of carbon and I think that here is the time right now. We usually brought them back in time before the season, about 5th, 6th month because then a little bit of an increase in the story towards the Croatian islands and looking at what happens to us every day, I say, or every year in certain areas, i.e.. activities and ministries or public enterprises investing in the development of the island, i.e. to preserve the quality and life of the islanders. When we talk about traffic connection, the most important segment for each island is certainly the safety of this traffic connection, and we see for worse times that some of our islands simply remain cut off from the mainland, recently here, I come from a larger island that has almost 10,000 inhabitants, 3 days we were cut off from land in both directions because we are in sub-marine space so sometimes when the ferry can sail, then the road is closed and we can't get to the ferry if we don't pay the fine etc., and yet it depends on some rules that also have Croatian roads but of course it's always higher power. All the lines on the Adriatic are concentrated and I think that this is also a place that we have put into good norms in the past and effectively solved to the satisfaction of the national shipowner of the Adriatic but also to all small private shipmen who in the past 15 years have invested exceptional resources in the renewal of the fleet, above all Jadrolini, but I say, every small boater who has indeed given a maximum effort to ensure the good conditions of ships, catamarans and ferrys and I am glad to say here that we have recently received on the island of Rab a new ferry of “Four bell towers” worth almost 8 million euros, in private ownership of the company and for almost 50 years has held the Stinica-Mišnjak line as our vessel cook or our life or connection with the mainland. Here we have heard Mr Bulj's comment on the Ravca-Drvenik line, it is a space within which the Port Authority of Split-Dalmatia should do its part and then the state in such a segment can certainly help the port administration, which has already shown that it can manage an efficient, port-space area and has indeed made a large number of ports on the Adriatic, restored, renovated, renovated and renovated, and the Ministry of the Sea really does this in a good way, each year there are up to 50 million kuna in the budget that are co-financed. The state invested a lot of money in the reconstruction of the Jadrolinia fleet, we didn't get what everyone said some foreigners, Greeks, Italians who would take all these lines and then turn out to be Jadrolini and those small shipers, no one reported, which means that we still don't have traffic big enough to get into a stronger competition that would then interest some carriers outside. Tollina Bridge Krk, 24 million kuna, we hear these days often stories about what should be released, which is not, we hear that mostly some leaders and mayors talk about it by looking at some other examples, we think that the very clear state has sent a message of non-payment of the bridge for those who live there, the islanders do not pay for the bridge, the state spends 24 million kuna each year. As for the other problem that I think the state may need to consider in solving is a matter of waste, because we are now in a story based on a waste management plan by the Republic of Croatia that all or all of the dumps on the islands will be closed and that waste from the island will be driven to the mainland. In some counties it has been there for many years, some now given that the central county dumps have been completed with this, and perhaps there is a possibility that the Environmental Protection Fund will help municipal societies or local self-government to finance or co-finance part of the costs, given that any departure from the island to land and ferry paid has a certain price and tariff and that is the new cost that the islanders will eventually have to pay, but also all citizens living on the islands or occasionally live. The next question that may have to be covered within the Islands Act is also the story of mineral raw materials because I believe that the Regulation on the protected coastal belt had, when we talk about legalising illegal objects, a good effect, but now it is time to think as far as possible and simply try to find space for at least an exploitation field on the islands, if not the quarryes, since it can only have two islands in Croatia, when we talk about quarrys, and that the vast majority, unfortunately, could not have had other provisions of other laws for a long time. We are forced, given that we have the stone as a good resource to drive a stone from land, and we have it really much and too much so that we cannot use it effectively both in the benefit and in the local island population, as well as in all those who want to build something on the islands. The operational programme for islands, when we talk about EU funds, is already designed within the Law, and I welcome it, only here, I would like to make one small proposal, since we are in the process of designing certain agglomeration projects, which, based on certain directives, provides for islands by 2023, we must have a second degree of wastewater treatment on the islands, that we have one limiting factor in designing already creates a problem with regard to the affordability of 4% of the average salary in Croatia, given the small number of inhabitants and the total fiscal capacity simply cannot meet certain conditions and projects will probably not be able to pass if the state does not help us with half and 1% of these averages in relation to the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, because of course, if we fail, we will have to seek greater co-financing of local self-government, or the project will even be rejected, and many are in the design phase. As far as tourism is concerned, and this is one of the special perhaps strongest economic branches on the islands. We have certain statistics that say that the 10 largest islands have about 260 thousand accommodation units, which, compared to the total million accommodation units that the entire Republic of Croatia has, says that when we add small islands that are not added there, this number is definitely exceeding 300 thousand i.e. that islands carry a third of the total traffic in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about tourism, not only overnight, but also income and that this seasonal life and attractiveness of the island is a good potential to be used, of course for the benefit of people who live there, but to allow them possible and some other programmes in tourism such as the once designed programme of incentives for success, which has enabled dozens and dozens of small family hotels and that all other instruments are used in this story to, I say, get a better effect in this time, and of course we as the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will accept this 2016 Report and certainly expect and the Law of Islands to be very nearlydiscussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76427	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for this debate. We have a few replicas. Before the replica, I welcome the gallery of members and members of the city organisation HSS from Novska. Welcome. Give it up! Replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76428	Dear counterpart Boris, it is certainly necessary to accept this report exactly as you said at the end of your presentation. But it is also a matter of dealing with the facts that are well seen in this report and they are clearly depicted and that way, when we talk about facts, we can break all the forces of misinformation that are happening in our public space. And as you said in the report, 52 inhabited islands with 344 settlements and a billion and 700 million kunas of invested funds. Of which 400 million kuna in the economy, 380 million kuna in transport connection, the water price subsidy 9.7 million kuna and here we must highlight what in the media, especially in the Primorje-Gorski County is often now passing these days, a free bridge for the Krk Bridge. Free bridge for the Krk Bridge has been for many years, so 27 million kuna is paid and all inhabitants and economic operators from both the island of Krk and the island of Cres and the island of Rab are used if they go over that bridge to the mainland. And just as you said, in the preparation of the new island law, and now what I personally think has already been shown is that it should have been done in this report to make some kind of analysis of some of these investments in the economy and increase the number of inhabitants or some economic development. And especially for the reasons why Milanovic's Government hastily abolished the status of mountainous and mountainous areas to the towns and municipalities of Gorski Kotar, unlike this Island Law, has shown when it goes quickly into something that can be done to cities and municipalities in such regions or communities where it is simply impossible to maintain life itself without such incentives, let alone increased economic development. And I think that this kind of data and this kind of report is absolutely necessary and should be made public as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76429	Thank you, colleague Klaric. Answer. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76430	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I think that when we talk about the story of the toll or the bridge, it tried again by individuals to create certain political points on the subject, and it was not revealed or wanted to hide a part of the truth again. So the islanders don't pay for the bridge, neither do the rabbis, nor the Croats, nor the Cresani, nor the Losinians. Everyone who travels in both directions doesn't pay. Neither do those who come from these islands and cross over Krk in return, nor do they. Even if they're tourists. It was simply a political story that wanted to be made, in a way that we all wanted to deal with someone else's, i.e. that we want to have an impact on what someone else is doing, and that on our measures as mayors on the island of Krk, for example, as a mayor in the Primorje-Gorski County, we offer these same islanders no other solution, and we have income from these islands. So let's say that in that whole story, our mayor said, okay, our port administrations charge the bonds, at some ports and ports that we didn't even build, so we'll simply fire it, we won't let the islanders pay it or say one mayor on that island to say, "We and in the winter season, we charge parks even in summer and winter, so I'll give up my share of the income and we'll help those for whom he fights." But none of that, and the state of 27 million kuna last year, 24 in 2016 for that bridge for everyone and what's the next story? Well, let's get it over with, let's all ride for the bad guys, and when it comes to maintenance, we'll leave that question to someone else again. I think we should speak with arguments and that this law has clearly shown that arguments exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76431	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76432	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Boris, I think we all agree that it was necessary to pass the Island Law to improve the quality of life on islands and preserve life on islands and here from this report and from those previous reports we have seen that yet this law, its implementation results. However, to record a statistically smaller, i.e. a halted drop in emigration from the island, even a slight population growth has been recorded, the quality of life has improved, but it is still not enough and I agree with you that a new law should be drawn up and prepared, which would take into account new circumstances. You yourself mentioned the problem of managing mineral raw materials with waste, tourism, but you should certainly mention fishermen there and see how to preserve fishing on our islands, especially fishing for those of our traditional tools, that there is no limit to local population to allow them for their needs to continue to enjoy fishing, but also to feed their family. With regard to transport and connection issues, I agree that these models should be considered to preserve life on each island, each school should be preserved wherever there is a resident, but also to think about other parts. You also initially said that there are often criticisms from other regions, so I have to say because of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema that a new law is also considered, i.e. one law on Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, because for the implementation of the project Slavonia Baranja is necessary to amend 4, 5 laws, align. I think it would be simpler to pass a new single law on Slavonia, Baranja and Sreme, such as the Islands Act modeling this law and really stop the emigration from Slavonia and improve the quality of this space. And here's everyone fighting for free transport, and let's say the town of Slavonski Brod was divided by the citizens of Slavonski Brod, although the highway is an integral part of the city, they don't have free toll, I think you might think about that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76433	I thank my colleague Vlaović. Reply from fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76434	Thank you very much. I say that this report from year to year is accepted and accepted almost unanimously, but I also said in the beginning that it is not only a taste of what made one ministry or only one law because the data of other laws and the effects of these other laws and measures of all other ministries, which do not appear in the Law on Islands, and that is why I have already once told the representatives of the ministry that it may be time to come down to the Law on Islands and certain areas and the effects of certain measures in certain areas, so that we know as far as possible in each area to work. As for the flood now, the requirements for special laws, for the Dalmatian Zagora, as you said about Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, for I don't know, certain other areas in the Republic of Croatia, I think we have laws that treat assisted areas. Is there room to solve these issues through other possibilities, such as the Slavonia project, which does not only go as a special law, but as a set of measures for a particular area. I think that this government has clearly shown this because, apart from the Slavonia project, there is also a project of Dalmatia which, according to the islands, has one series of measures to be taken to preserve life, not only in the islands, but in the space of all these parts of the Republic of Croatia, because the fact is that only individual laws do not have a clear and good effect in every way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76435	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In his presentation on behalf of the HDZ club, counterpart Boris correctly noted the fact that the presidents are the two largest parliamentary clubs from the island. I think he unfairly neglected the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whose origin was on the father of the island, which is exactly 3 in a row, and so are you, Mr. Boric, vice president of the HDZ Club, if I understand correctly, and you are from the island, and also colleague Branka is sitting next to you. Vodice also has a part of the island in his, yeah, and we're all kind of from the island, one way or the other. Somewhere in 2012 the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities was held in the Croatian Parliament. When Mr. That, and I know it's two points behind, but I'm in the topic and Mr. Tolnauer said then that at one point we're all a minority after which I turned when I heard it from the then Deputy Prime Minister Neven Mimica went to tell him, Nevena you know me from the island and finished. So in this situation, we who are from the island are indeed a minority in relation to the entire population and we are looking for understanding of certain specificities that others who are not in this situation do not feel, not by their guilt or their malicious but simply did not meet with it because he would also like to express the satisfaction that we have managed to agree that despite the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, this report is still going to the plenary session. I noticed this by proposing an amendment that government reports go to the plenary session, and the president of the HDZ Club saw the danger of the Report on the Island Act not going to the session that amendment accepted or the Committee accepted. I will also take this opportunity, although I am reluctant to do so when it comes to the media to praise Nova TV and journalist Ivana Pezo Moskaljov and journalist Šim Vicevic on this last series "From the Small Islands of Winter". So we who have known how to stay on small islands and in winter know about what it looks like. Those who did not have the opportunity to look at a famous American series, called "Life in the North", are not exactly Alaskan, but they are not something much or different. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the adoption of the Report on the Implementation of the Islands Act in 2016, we have done so for all years regardless of the position we were in and indeed the Island Act is a good instrument that puts this particularity of the island, island and life on the islands in some way and gives an opportunity to make life easier on the islands by certain measures, and gives an opportunity to draw attention to life on islands at least once a year's debate in the Croatian Public Assembly. Since these reports have a very similar form, so the legal framework is listed, everything is stated and where everything was done as a rule is not read, but it is a very good document where one can see what all countries have invested in the islands, then this is an opportunity to highlight some of the problems that may have just now become specific. That's what I'm gonna do. First, I was approached by taxi drivers who express concern that in the Road Traffic Act they would be put in a more unfavourable position because of their specific position, so in winter, the taxi on the islands is not exactly used to leave one neighborhood to another, and in the summer, it is a very different situation, and then they are exposed to competition from the mainland. Of course, there is no problem for people who do not live on the island in winter to come and earn not only our citizens in summer, but in accordance with what we have accepted, citizens of other countries, it is freedom of movement and the labour market and services, etc., but I think that when adopting this law, attention should be paid to that specificity. Also as regards the recovery or disposal of waste, representatives of the Croatian Parliament and all parties elected in the 10th Election Unit received a letter from the Head of the Municipality of Vela Luka and the Municipality of Blato warning them of the possibility that if the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund would not finance the project that there is a risk of being left without funds from the World Bank's gift. I'm sure, given that I got it a few minutes ago so either one of us MPs who got it told the speaker that the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund would be involved in this project to resuscitate the dump. But here I was lucky or had a duty to be the first to say it. Also, as far as this story of the bridge of the Krk Bridge in Tunel St. Elijah, etc. I would like to say this, so according to a large-scale survey, the citizens welcomed the removal of the tunnel for the tunnel of St. Elijah and Ilija explained this with understandable reasons, as did those citizens who did not support it, they explained it with understandable reasons. So the state decided to charge a group of citizens to pay a certain service and take it upon itself, it decided for those people, those drivers that go through the tunnel of St. Elijah. It is logical that the biggest winners of the decision are people who pass there more often, so residents of the former Imotski municipality and residents of the former Makarska municipality. And as a representative from that area, I have nothing left to do but support it. Of course, the winners of this are those who will pass through the summer as for example. tourists who go to sea or tourists who now have even a more favourable opportunity to find accommodation behind the Biokovo mountain and these are the costs that we will all pay. As a representative from that area, I support this, but also a legitimate requirement for some others to take care of them, and then I guess it would be my legitimate requirement to keep in mind that a part of the burden now paid by those driving by ferry to move on to a wider community. We have a concrete example that, for example, children who have a residence on the island and are not free from payments as students pay about the same price as adults on the island, do not have an additional discount as children, have this ordinary discount as children, so, for example, this illogicality could be removed. It is always up to the state to prescribe from whom they will take more by prescribing taxes and to whom they will give more or less by budget and other laws. It is a political stance in the rule of parliamentary majority, when they decide to give a billion or two or five, it doesn't matter how many more war veterans. It's their decision. As is the right of others to question why they need it, not some others we think is more necessary. So also in the case of the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit. The parliamentary majority, the government decided to take 37 million kunas to towns and municipalities on islands and thus put them in a more unfavourable position than those units of local self-government on land. The SDP advocates' club, apart from the proposal for the parliament to accept this report, suggested that this measure should make the Croatian Parliament concerned. Of course, I do not expect the parliamentary majority to admit that it has made a mistake, so that conclusion is likely to be rejected. I just hope it fits the usual pronunciation, so at least it'll be put to the vote. Therefore, as regards other specificities, this is, of course, the biggest problem of linking the island to the mainland and, in that sense, should enable local self-governments to implement heliodrom construction projects, enable competitions to be financed and to make land of the Republic of Croatia available, for example, to be realised, because this is a significant transport relief especially in case of emergency medical assistance. The reduction in VAT rates especially in tourism should also be considered, the reduction in profit tax for island companies because of this seasonality that Boris was talking about is simply a different way of doing business and is significantly smaller in the winter months, and still obligations should be paid throughout the year. Now, we have a case that certain cities and municipalities on the islands are classified in a high category of development because of a small number of inhabitants, because it goes according to the population, so if some people have fewer, then they are classified into that smaller category of development. And how summers affect those who are not from there may have a slightly higher income than the real situation. And therefore, because of this unrealisticly high category of development, they do not have the possibility to apply for EU funds, and on the other hand they do not have enough resources to realise capital projects such as schools, kindergartens, etc. Because it was abolished in this law. When I first talked about this new TV series that was also on the island of Lastovo, so it is, Lastovo is in the largest category of development, and de facto someone said at the end of the world. And now we're talking about it, that's what we were just talking about. It is also necessary to see the role and share of the local self-government unit in the construction of schools because the school is the founder of the county, the ministry is funded, and all the way to the building permit should be financed by a local self-government that can't normally do so. To conclude, the need for a new island law has long been discussed. In this regard, therefore, the new Island Law should allow economic operators on the island to be placed at the same level as land-based farmers, taking into account the specific conditions of life, the specificity of health and social protection, the specificity of engagement, the specificity of cultural, social and other life. And, of course, it's at least a little bit of life- and-and-damaging that the islands have in summer and, of course, the beauty to bring it closer to being the remaining 9, 8, 7, and hopefully it'll be six months soon when we extend the season a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76437	I thank my esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76438	Thank you very much, colleague Bauk. After this debate as an islander and you as an islander, so go back a little bit and say I was also a minister in that government as an islander and my colleague was Branko Grčić and I should have told him all of this maybe and then let's say he didn't cancel the Board of Islands and turn it into a sector so we returned 2017. So he can give us a little bit more resources, and then even a few more programs are introduced. And then it would be kind of let's call it consistent, credible and then suggest and all of what you saw as a problem. As for that time, I remember only my skepticism towards the only move that you then made, which is an island card which, after several years of implementation, showed its justification even though we thought a little differently about it at first, and it certainly needs to be tied up and a part of the measure through the future Island Act. As far as this funding story is concerned, I have to correct it, nothing this country has taken through the amendments to the Income Act. Why? Because she made it clear that what we have less and was deposited once in a special account at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development will return by looking at the averages three months, similar to the measure introduced by the former SDP Government and this one continued in 2017 when income averages were seen in the first three months. Well, if something was 130 then, and now it's 100 we'll give you 30 back and you'll be left with as much as you had, at least. That's true. So I, as the head of the municipality, can confirm that, too, means that we are being paid from the state budget the difference in a smaller part that once went to a special account. And as far as this last one is concerned, I can say that this report should be accepted, because I think it's a real picture that the state really cares about islands and islanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76439	I thank my colleague, Boric. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76440	Thank you. So you won't believe it, but I told my colleague, Greek, of course, that's why I didn't resign. However, I think it would be better if this management at the Ministry of the Sea or the Ministry of the Sea, it was a solution during the previous HDZ government and somehow we liked to see the specificity of the island compared to other parts... In the Ministry of Regional Development, we kind of prefer to be in the Ministry of the Sea or the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the island card, I'm according to it, I don't think it was necessary to introduce it, not because, because it gave good results, but everything that's written on your island card, it's written on your ID card. Just as we were glad to be in the Ministry of the Sea, so we're so glad we might have a special card, that's in some way, and I have to say that in order to obey what my government brought that card, while I was a member of that government, I didn't want to take it out, but I was knowingly paying for a more expensive ticket in protest. So that was very difficult for me, it was very difficult for me. What you said about the funds that were taken so they would be returned, you just admitted it, so they were taken at the moment, so they will be returned, as far as I know for capital projects, are not returned, so some cities have fewer. Yeah, and as for the fact that I was a minister, that's right, I was looking for this report if there's a Ministry of Administration somewhere, but unfortunately there's not. So, I wasn't in a vault where you could directly help,...... Yeah, I gave consent to the law, to some, and I didn't. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I wasn't in the vault to help but I was trying... Yes, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76441	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Next replica, dear colleague Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76442	Dear colleague Bauk, you mentioned St. Elijah's tunnel and free toll. From this report I believe that you will agree with me, that nothing is actually free. It is seen in the report that the people of the island of Krk, Cres, use this convenience across the Krk bridge but it costs 27 million kuna. It also costs a ride through the Biokovo tunnel. So when we say something is free we must always know that it is not free and that it is the same for our Croatian citizens to pay. You mentioned what the state took, in part expressed the attitude that I thought, which is why I reported for the replica of my colleague, Boric, this is how the state explained it and returned it. However, much worse the situation was experienced by residents of the Gorski Kotar. For example, by stripping me of the groundless and insufficient analytical status of the mountain-mountan area, which has not been taken back as you have said, 24 million kuna, they have been taken from 57 million kunas which have not been returned in any way. And I think that this kind of thing we have to keep in mind when we make the law, which gets something, which loses something, and which ultimately means that for the development of a certain end, we see here and gratefully that the island law has received these results, the new island law will certainly be better, but in any case, it's all costing something, you correctly said that it's a political stance but I believe that the quick-to-be attitudes adopted here in the case of the Gorski Kotar were essentially something that caused great damage to that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76443	Thank you, colleague Klaric. Answer me, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76444	I can fully agree with you that nothing is free and I can also fully agree with you that it is the right of the Government to have some groups unload a bit and other groups, that because this number has been released, a little burdened. And then after that she goes to the election and talks that she's unloaded, which she's burdened, it's very simple. For example, if the price of gasoline was increased by 10 June in Croatia, it would be an additional income so that they should no longer charge for ferry tickets. But on that brilliant idea of mine, all my islanders laughed and then I asked, but why would the Slavons, the Zagrebers, the Priors pay more expensive gas for us to drive for free the price of a year and they would once in summer? That's about it. So, precisely the fact that something can be done that is also a particular responsibility for the government, that is, we decide that this group is more important to us at this point and that it will pay more attention to it, more money and some other group that is also more important and less important, will have to be burdened further, in which political parties differ. We're still on these other topics, but when we talk about concrete things, there's a relatively quick solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76445	I thank my colleague Bauku for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76446	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bauk, here I have decided to replicate myself as an continental to you as an islander and let Mr. Boric hear me,... And he's gone, maybe he can hear it outside. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I am pleased that the government and the state are helping the islanders, and this release aid of 1.7 billion kuna and 300 million kuna is being granted for public transport. And I would mention that we have very many streams in Croatia, there are no islands only at sea, but unfortunately there are islands both in Lika and Slavonia, and in Zagorje. I belong to a single area which is along the very edge of Croatia towards Slovenia, and there are some Zagorje municipalities up by the Sutla River, which are almost out of public transport. Not long ago, we had a meeting with the commissioners who expressed the need to intervene and ask the Croatian government for help and the ministry to co-finance our transport. So there are municipalities in Zagorje that don't have any public transportation. And I'm saying, that I wouldn't be sorry if the Croatian government and the Croatian state were helping the islanders, I'm not sorry at all, but I'd like to have the same status for the rest of the Republic. For municipalities and cities, or municipalities, these are the most municipalities in the underdeveloped parts of Slavonia, Like, Zagorje and that this Croatian state takes care of them as well. We have a special island aid law, that's fine. 300 million kunas for transportation on islands, and how much did Slavonia get, how much did Zagorje get, how much did she get for co-financing of the transport? Here, so I'd like to pray about it, and another piece of information, when we talk about the development index in the top 20 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, 19 municipalities are from Primorje and from the island, and one from the mainland alone. So now we could talk about where it is, where the islands are. Are the islands on land or are the islands where we think they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76447	Thank you, colleague Prelec. Answer. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76448	So, as far as public transport is concerned, I would interpret it this way: the municipalities you spoke do not have well-organised public transport. Can we do that? They have no public transport, and islands have no transportation but public transport because it is very difficult to swim, as you know, with small ships it is also very difficult to go to distant islands because you are not sure if you will be able to make it back in time. That's why it makes sense, therefore, that the only transport that is possible for islanders is public. Unless you have a yacht, but let's just say you didn't mean it that way. And as for transport, public transport, it is doubtless necessary to organise public transport. Is it city or county assignment or maybe even state, OK. The same should be taken into account, but always say: for us the only possible transport is public. We don't have anyone to drive us to the center of the former community like there are people from these municipalities. So we're either going to swim or we're going to have a public transport and we're going to have to do it at exactly the right time. If you miss the ferry at 15.30, next time it's at 18.00, then it's at 20.00. The other day, I thought he was at 8:30 because he's leaving Split at 8:30, so I'm almost late, so I'd have to stay for another four hours, but it doesn't matter. So, here's exactly the specificity that I've talked about before that you don't see until you feel it on your skin, but of course it's absolutely your duty as a representative and here I commend you as the president of the club, to warn you about the specificities of the area from which you come so that we can solve these voter problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76449	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk for his reply. Next replica. Dear colleague Marko Vučetić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76450	Dear fellow Bauk, you have now spoken of the reality of life on the islands and that reality is partly difficult, but it is also encouraging that such islands can be helped because it is an island reality. I come from an island that unfortunately has no help and can't be helped because it lives in something I call isolating hyperreality. What does that mean? That means my island, the island of Vir, has about 100 million kuna budgets somewhere, but lives in sensation. He doesn't live in reality. Now I'm just going to tell you three elements of that sensation or that hyperreality. Three years ago, in one political enthusiasm, the island of Vir was said to receive a 2016-2017 university and everyone believed that last academic year would be the first generation of students at the University of Vir on an island that still has no developed water and sewer network. Most likely, the project was abandoned because they could not dig up a large enough water storage facility. Furthermore, the island of Vir has a continuous party because it has 100 million kuna budgets. They're fire extinguishers all the time. One time there was a fireworks event at noon, only once because they concluded that out of the hearth fireworks and not seeing, there was no big use. So again, it's a new hyperreality on an island called the island of Vir, which can't really be helped. The next helplessness of my island is that on several occasions it is said that rich Arabs will come and put solar panels on the spring roofs. Everyone believed it, the media transmitted it, and that's exactly what corresponds to hyperreality. So since we cannot help this island, we can look at it and invite you to come and participate in hyperreality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76451	Thank you, colleague Vučetic. Answer. A fellow bogeyman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76452	Thank you. Well, I was on Viro for the first time in 2008 when I was a representative, at the invitation of the then and present chief, who I think, for 20 years and of course, the first thing I thought was you have a bridge, you're not an island. What else would they think? Then when I came to Vis, then the Vis guys said to me: you have 12 ferry lines, you're not an island, approximately that's what it looks like to you. So, as far as the island of Vira is concerned, he has one specificity. First of all, it's a little bit built up. And the historical reasons why it was reconstructed are partly and subjective to the nature of the islanders themselves who are in danger, I think, from the construction of the nuke. I want to make it impossible for them as soon as possible, if I've heard correctly. Did I hear that right? Yeah. Secondly, the number of inhabitants in summer is somewhere more than half of the county's centres in the Republic of Croatia. Somewhere between 50 and 70 grand. So the infrastructure that needs to be tolerated is very large and of course there is then of all the specialities that the islands have, it has at least 3 specialities. The first feature is that unlike many other islands, it is connected to the bridge, and then in that traffic sense it is not just like other islands. Second, that it has been reconstructed or that it has a huge population relative to the summer and winter period so that if fireworks are this third specificity at noon, it can only be attributed to one situation. But obviously if citizens still choose the same power, and they choose it, then I guess they're happy about it. Since I know your local-political games with Mr. Kapovic, then I won't go on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76453	Thank you, Comrade Bauk for your reply. We're moving on to the next individual debate, distinguished colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76454	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this report on the effects of the implementation of the 2016 Island Act is a good report, from which we can really see exhaustively who separated in 2016 for the islands whether it was a unit of local, regional (regional) self-government, ministry or any other institution. As I come from Sibenik-Knin County, from the city of Vodice, there are closer problems for me, so I will focus more on this part of my presentation and this debate. In fact, colleagues have already spoken about the problem of connecting land and islands, so here's what I'm going to do about it. In fact, the Ministry of I must, transport and infrastructure, as a payment of support to shipowners in 2016, allocated 303 million kuna, according to concession contracts, 12 shipowners received the funds by 53 state lines by a decision of the Government. According to this report, Sibenik-Knin County received a lower amount, only slightly more than 18 million kunas and conscious situations that Split-Dalmatia County, its islands, distance, size cannot parise Sibenik-Knin County as well as Zadar County, we do have the smallest archipelago, the least populated island but still should be mentioned that in previous years we have had a lot of problems over the ferry and boat line especially that link relating to the remote islands and these are Capri and Žirje. Namely, we had frequent cancellations of these sailings, even over 80 in 2017. As some islanders have said, the fast ship ferry and your ship Tiyat are all 156 years old, so here from this pay phone to see if it can be brought to the Sibenik-Knin County and into our area under the same boat because we are aware that the concession contract is signed, and until it expires, that we have no major change options, means we cannot expect a new shipowner but that indeed in the area of Sibenik-Knin County they come faster and more quality ships and that we have no problems with cancelling the lines. We know that this link between the mainland and the island is the greatest sense of security and that the islanders are safe when they consider whether to stay on the island or return to the island, to first state that sense of security when and at what time they can reach the mainland. Furthermore, we see the exact list of cities, municipalities, ministries who invested how much of their original assets in their area, so here we can say and see that they are for example. The city of Vodice invested over 2 million kunas. I don't think that's enough, I don't think that's enough, I don't think our islanders are satisfied, but when I look at comparisons with others, then we see that numerous counties, or even the ministries, port administrations, municipalities etc., have not invested more than 20, 30, 40,000 kunas not to call on anyone but what I would like to mention, that it would be good for the ministry to deploy its funds, of course, taking into account the development of a single unit of local self-government, to think about, for example. One city of Vodice in the same year 2016 received a grant from the ministry 477 000 and we are grateful for that, to be of some extent, that some unit of local self-government, which is even richer, which is a higher degree of development, has received more funding and has invested its originals, I don't know 20, 30 000, 500, 600 000 from the ministry. I think that, in some ways, it should be potential for all those who receive the ministry's grants to decide to invest more on those same islands. In addition to what is seen, it means infrastructure projects and facilities, less visible and requires significant financial resources, for example. and co-finance the cost of municipal waste from the island to the mainland for its final disposal. It is a great burden for local self-government units in their own area of the island and we welcome the idea in general since the co-financing started, but 50% is also a small amount, for example. Only one Vodice with the only me would say, and the small island of Prvic, must single out 600,000 kuna for that purpose. We know you can see a nice investment on the island that year. Furthermore, co-financing of the playground for children, we need no one to argue about how much children on an island mean. It would be good to take care of the specificity of the island when making any law, for example. The playground because we can't and can't call it kindergarten, it can't provide the same pedagogical standard as the one on land. In fact, it may be too expensive and pointless for six or seven children to provide anything that requires a pedagogue standard for an island kindergarten. And so now, not to list in order, we all look forward to a new Law on Islands, but we are already hearing signs that some island activists warn that development policy will benefit more investors than the island's inhabitants. Now, an appeal to the island's inhabitants, namely, on any arrival of investors or investments that the islanders themselves most often welcome, we have a big problem with the occasional residents. Many islanders who have long since left their island or those who only have their own weekend facility on the island come as some good souls and then help those who destroy such an initiative. All those who come to the island occasionally would very much like to again, as we say, bathe downstairs in their scraps and have peace. However, people on the island need new jobs and investments and the progress of the island itself. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76455	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Damir Mateljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's how nice it is to listen to this debate that went beyond the party frameworks and it's nice to listen to you bodules beat each other and all the honor of it because it's local in this case in front of the national one. However, I would be like colleagues of Prevec, who here, not to defend, not to be jealous of the islands, but to defend this part of continental Croatia, our continental islands. So I would mention this one of our continental islands, which is the same area as the island of Brac. The island of Brac has about 15 thousand inhabitants, and this island of Žumberak, therefore has barely two thousand inhabitants. And as for traffic isolation, it's hard to swim, but it's even harder to ski or fly. In this winter, in many villages in Žumberk, people literally starved for weeks until the HGSS or the Red Cross reached them. And I just want to hope, in fact, that in some future Regional Development Act, our ministry will have emotions, that is, empathy and those continental islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76457	I would like to thank my colleague Matteljan for his reply. She's a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76458	Thank you, Comrade Mathelan. So I would agree with you and it is our duty in this Croatian Assembly to talk about the problems of all our citizens. Surely the problems of our inhabitants on the islands and the coast are nearer to us, and here you are, for example. in Žumberk. Therefore, this government advocates even regional development, we know that we also have a special project Slavonia, it is a new Law on Islands, a mountainous and mountainous area and our duty in this assembly is that when we discuss how best to approach any problem and to meet our citizens wherever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76459	I thank my colleague Juričev-Martinchev for his reply. Next replica. Dear colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76460	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's colleague Juričev-Martinchev, continuing this polemic continentals and islanders and seamen. That's why I'm saying, I'm going to repeat what my colleague Mattelian said. Mr. Bauk and Boric are almost never on the same side, except when it comes to the island and I'm glad. They need to fight for their islanders, like my colleague Matteljan and I are fighting for continentals, but so we don't turn out to have anything against the islanders. Absolutely nothing, I just want simple and the status of some municipalities here in the continent to have the same opportunities, that their citizens have quality public transport, and somewhere in some municipalities there is no public transport at all. You told your colleagues Branka it was a matter of cities and municipalities. I agree that it should be a matter of cities and municipalities, but some municipalities in my environment have such budgets that they simply cannot afford to subsidise public transport. Here's a colleague talking to Vira, I'd say if they weren't an island, thank God they got the bridge 30 years ago and over. Their budget is 100 million kunas or 88 million kunas as far as I know, you said 100 million kunas. With 100 million kuna, you can do a lot, a lot. There are municipalities in Zagorje, which have more inhabitants than the municipality of Vir and have 2 or 3 million kuna budgets. These municipalities simply don't have the opportunity to co-finance public transport and that's where I ask the ministry to engage, to simply enable these municipalities, these communities, so we're not talking about Zagorje, we're talking about Slavonia, we're talking about the person, we're talking about having a simple even development. We're talking about the demographic restoration of Croatia. We're leaving people, from Slavonia, from like and from Zagorje. From the island, too. However, this 1.7 billion-dollar money invested in the islands, I believe it is so evenly deployed throughout Croatia that there will be less departures from both Slavonia and Zagorje and from other areas. So I have nothing against the islanders, I just want the same treatment and those other islanders in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76461	I thank my colleague Preleco. Reply from my colleague, Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76462	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Prelec, I stressed that there was a need to take care of development, so when I was talking about the town of Vodice how much they gave the original ones, how much they got from the ministry, then I said those who were even more developed. Of course, we can't put those who are up to the fourth category, they need the absolute help of the state and all of us together in all respects when the law is passed, especially the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76463	I thank my colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev for his reply. Before the replica of my colleagues, I would ask my colleagues from the HDZ Club to allow colleagues and colleagues to discuss and not interfere with colleagues and colleagues in their discussions. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76464	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague Yurichev. Well, the good side of this report is that it gives a picturesque and figures out everything that happens in one year, but discussions in the Assembly always cause a different effect compared to what it says, and then we have a feeling that this is some kind of competition between certain regions and certain areas within the Republic of Croatia, and that shouldn't be the goal of this report because that's how I've been following 15 years of the same debate, it means. And it always avoids the real truth that exists, which does not want to be respected. So no one on the islands has free bus or road public transport in the sense that nothing pays like in Brdovac or any other municipality on land. We only have one cost that other municipalities don't have, and it's a ferry because we're surrounded by four sides of the sea and we just have to kind of skip it, and it's called a ferry, which in your community you don't need to do, and we're paying equally toll and toll and toll and everything we have to pay somewhere. So you shouldn't look at it that way. And what you were saying means, when we talk about the small islands of the Sibenik archipelago, they certainly deserve better ferrys and ships, i.e. Ships in this case or a high-speed line. And after Jadrolinia has made the last four new ferrys, it is time to make four or five new ships in its fleet for small islands within the Losinj, Sibenik, Dubrovnik and Zadar archipelago so that these islands have adequate transportation and certainly there are resources that... they have, but they must of course and make an effort and I expect it from this administration. As for the price, there is one illogicality, and I would like the secretary of state to try and solve it with the Ministry of the Sea, which is that we islanders drive all year long, and that we have a set price based on the seasonal price of a ticket and a discount based on it, and we drive both outside the season and in the season. I think it's more appropriate for that alien part and maybe it's one illogical thing if it can be solved with all these measures that I've proposed for the new law not to drop us. to try her, too, in a way to make her useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76465	I thank my colleague, Boric. Answer from my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76466	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boric, you have now reminded me of a debate we had on the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds. Namely, our external member also the recent island resident Lastova suggested ministerial assistants to consider the way in which those people who only come on weekends have their own facilities on the island, also that some privilege that some percentage pay less than that card to the island because they would probably visit the island even more frequently then. Not only do they come for vacation but they often process their vineyards, olive groves, and thus, they would bring the island back to life, even on weekends.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76467	I thank my colleague Juričev-Martinchev for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76468	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Branka, we're coming from the same city, so here's what you did at the end of your presentation, I didn't mean to report for a replica, but you finally encouraged me to do that. You said, you emphasized this to our local and you specifically referred to investments on our island and activity on our island, so I would say in that sense that first of all, truly islanders, I think they have the right to decide for themselves what's going to happen on their island. And now whether it's activists that are occasionally or constantly, it's really less important to me at this point. It's as important as these people, how all these people see the welfare of their island, so that's how I see our island. And in that sense, I would say, and I think you'll agree with me that we have to take care of and give some kind of a chance and when some investments are already coming in, or we're in a position to bring some investment to the island itself, then give priority to hiring people if they're on the same terms just people on the island. I think that these situations were, and that we didn't give people on the island in those situations or that you didn't actually give them a chance and a right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76469	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. Answer from my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76470	Thank you very much. My colleague Alfirev, at least we know that we are talking about the same petition problem that was recently written to build a marina on the island of Prvic, and I really thought in my exposure to this problem. You're saying that you don't think it's important whether it's the occasional or permanent residents, I'm in my presentation, and now I'm going to say again that I think it's very important because these permanent residents are wanted investments, new jobs, resuscitation of the island. In such a way they think about the future of their children those who do not live on the island but come only a week, two or three they would be very happy to keep their island intact that when they come on vacation to have their peace. In particular, as far as this and some other investments are concerned, we know that investors would tell us or we heard it in the debates of very timid fish and that when they see that they are not welcome in that environment, they turn very easily and move on. Let us not wonder, then, why in some islands or environments we have more investors, more new jobs, in some less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76471	I thank my esteemed colleague Juričev-Martinchev for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the secretary of state at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Mrs. Nikola Klaic for the explanation of this report. Thank you very much. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break until 5:00 p.m. when we get back to work. It's a 16-50 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76472	Report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2016 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act in 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes: 88 for, 1 abstention and 3 against, a conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly another conclusion, which reads: The Croatian Parliament expressed concern that the new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government has reduced participation in the share of income tax from 80% to 60%, creating a lack of income of 37 million kuna. I am voting on the proposed conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposed conclusion has not received the required number of votes. 12 was for, 2 abstentions and 78 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76473	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.50 HOURS]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds. I would like to invite the motionor, the representative of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Secretary of State, Mr Velimir Žunec, to explain the report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76474	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. So, as you have heard before you, there is a proposal for a half-year report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union and European structural instruments for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016, which the Croatian Government is obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the conclusion adopted in October 2014. Therefore, the report, the half-year report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes and European structural instruments, includes key information on the implementation of the first, second, fifth components of the IPA programme, and operational programmes for transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and human potential development, and the operational programme for fisheries for the financial period 2007-2013, including financial indicators of the effectiveness of the absorption of each component or operational programme. Also since 2015, the half-yearly report provides a review of the financial indicators of the use and descriptive review of the situation, implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the current financial period of 2014-2020 through the presentation of all operational programmes of the Operational Programme on Competitiveness of Cohesion, the Operational Programme of Effective Human Resources, the Rural Development Programme and the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries. The following are now key information on the use of European funds for the financial period 2007-2013. Therefore, although it is the second half of 2016 due to the N+3 rules, a number of EU funding projects were still implemented. Thus, during the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016, the European Commission, on behalf of the National Fund, amounted to EUR 167.23 million, representing 15.54% of the total amount allocated to 1.08 billion since the start of the 2007-2013 programme. In that reporting period, projects worth 11.19m euros were agreed, i.e. 071% of the total contracted funds on 31 December 2016, totaling 1.57 billion euros. During the same reporting period, users and contractors were paid 233.51m euros, or 21.94% of the total amount paid since the start of the implementation, amounting to 1.06 billion euros. Finally, in the reporting period, 120.23m euros were asked by the European Commission, i.e. 10.92% of the total amount requested and certified since the start of the implementation was 1.1 billion euros. So here I must stress that the acceptability of the costs for the financial period 2007-2013 is therefore ending on 31 December 2016, I have already said because of the said rule N+3. And the total use of the funds here will help be known after the closing process of all these operational programmes and programmes, which will of course be the subject of some subsequent half-yearly reports. A few words about the irregularities themselves. This reporting period identified 5 new cases of irregularities which were delivered, i.e. OLAF. So there were two cases in component 5 of the IPA programme, two cases under the European Regional Development Fund and 1 in the framework, 1 in the context of the European Social Fund under the operational programme human potential development. Key information regarding the financial period 2014-2020 or European Structural and Investment Funds. So in the reporting period, the European Commission has allocated an amount of 115.17m euros, representing 16.84% of the total amount allocated to the programme of 684.07m euros since the implementation of the programme. In the same period, projects worth 544.16m euros were agreed, i.e. 42.81% of the total contracted funds, amounting to 1.27 billion euros. A total of 167.21m euros and 48.77% of the total amount paid since the start of the implementation of the report were paid to end-users and contractors, respectively. Finally, 55.13m euros were certified in the reporting period, or 26.58% of the total amount certified, which has been EUR 207.40m since the start of implementation. Finally, on 31 December 2016, 1.27 billion euros were agreed, i.e. 11.83 total allocations. The end-users were paid 342.84m euros, i.e. 3.19% of the funds allocated. In total, 207.40m euros were certified, i.e. 1.93% of the allocations and were recognised by the European Commission by 684.07m euros, and 6.37% of the total allocations for operational programmes in the financial period 2014-2020 amounted to 10.74 billion euros. And finally something about irregularities. Therefore, 23 new cases of irregularities submitted to OLAF were identified in total during this reporting period. All irregularities are within the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. So much for me in this opening statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76475	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State Velimir Žunec. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? No, thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate. And she has a colleague, Ivana Lesandric-Ninčević, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76476	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow secretary of state, right, if I'm not mistaken? I got an answer to all those questions that you didn't know on the committee that I gave you, so I have another question about that. I hope you're familiar with all the answers that you've given me in my answers to explain how the governing body implements, or knows a lot better answers than you do, so I hope you know the answers too. I am now interested in a question related to EU funds, especially when we are talking about the 2016 report. So, in the previous financial period, we agreed on certain projects. We didn't realize them in 100 percent, we didn't realize the whole project, but 10-20%, which project depends. Then we staged it, so we transferred that part to the next financial period. What happened to those funds we made, let's say we booked for the project and we never used them during that financial period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76477	I thank my colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. State Secretary, answer. Here you go. Right here in your place.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76478	I appreciate the question. So, just because certain projects, as we say, were not fully realised or they were phased out, they were going with a higher level of bargaining, so, specifically in the operational programme, the traffic was significantly higher than 100%, and then, depending on the circumstances, depending on the implementation, depending on the problems of some projects, I'm going to say, temporarily, i.e., the prolongation, and some of them, was staged to mean, however, being solved in a future perspective. In this case, therefore, in particular, I do not know if you were referring to Dubrovnik airport or any other similar example. So... These projects, then, won't give up on them. [[You can't hear it.]] They will end, but unfortunately for some reason they have not been completed in the previous financial perspective. They're not lost because I'm saying, there's a contract rate that, in some cases, was 170, 150%, so it's shrinking. So, but the funds aren't lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76479	Thank you very much for answering the secretary of state. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76480	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the use of the EU's pre-accession programme and European structural instruments for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016 will support the HDZ Club. It should be recalled that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit six-month reports on the use of pre-accession aid programmes to the Croatian Assembly on the basis of the conclusions of 24 October 2014. We also need to know the period for which this report was made, the circumstances in which it was done and what decisions could have been made. In January 2016, the government was formed, and then there were early elections in September of the same year and the formation of a new government in October, which means that this is the period when we had a technical government most of the time. Every report, including this, has no purpose for itself if we do not read and see what is right, but what is not and where there is a possibility of progress and it should be emphasized. We see here that from 1 July to 31 December 2016 we are from the IPA programme and the operational programmes of the financial period, meaning that from 2007 to 2013, the European Commission has amounted to 167 million kuna at the expense of the National Fund. All 15.54% of the total amount allocated, which is a billion and 76 million and paid 233.51m euros or almost 22%. Surely we care very much about how much it was agreed by that time, meaning up to 31.12.2016 out of the total allocations of 275.66m euros, 123.20% were agreed to, to Millionaired 571m euros. In the same period, as part of the financial perspective programme, a total of EUR 544.16 million was agreed on this new 2014 to 2020, with 11.83% of the total allocated, 10 billion were all allocated, pardoned, billion and 271 million. As the period from 31.12. to today is a very long period, I would say that it can calm us down to the fact that, during 2017, users have been placed on the disposal of new 2.8 billion euros through 141 competitions published in the framework of the European Structural and Investment Funds, and thus the amount of tenders announced under the operational programmes from 2014 to 2020 has risen to 52% of total allocations, i.e. 5.6 billion euros. As we are in 2018, 2020 is not far away, we expect to do this even better in this year, i.e. to open an even greater number of tenders and sign as much contractual amount as possible so that we can withdraw as much as possible from this allotment. And if we compare this to the three-year period from 2014 to 2016, then, in those 3 years, approximately the bid of value was announced as in 2017 itself. And as I said, the meaning of reporting and discussing this topic is precisely in finding new solutions, removing obstacles, either legal, human or financial, in order to increase or be as effective as possible in withdrawing these funds. Thus, the following problems were identified during this reporting period: delay with the adoption of strategic documents, i.e. legal and sublegal acts. I would therefore remind myself that this is why the Ministry proposed, and therefore the Government of this House, so we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia in December 2017. We also adopted a regional development strategy for the period until the end of 2020 in July 2017. Furthermore, problems and lack and insufficient coordination among the authorities responsible for meeting the specific conditions have been identified. Furthermore, an ambitious initial set of deadlines. We all know that we have a great desire and, of course, with the pressure and the public, we are very much hoping that we will bring in a number of projects, but there are great problems, not to say, when we come in with the Public Procurement Act, first and foremost, the choice of the most favourable bidders, complaints and everything that goes with extremely large and therefore valuable projects. It is also limited to the possible impact of co-ordination and management bodies as they are not within the competence of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. All those who work and who face different projects, for example, the construction of a sewer system, certainly not through the Ministry of Regional Development, but through Croatian Waters, thus also through the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Also, when it comes to the construction of a road, for example, the waterways, the project funded by EU funds, has been done via Croatian roads, which is also responsible for the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Furthermore, there is no experience of sectoral competent authorities with EU procedures and standards for drawing up strategic documents, as well as an inaccessible number of professionals. The key to every success in me is people, and so the realisation of European projects is of paramount importance to us are quality people who have knowledge and experience in the implementation of projects themselves. Unfortunately, in our institutions, we are missing and we see this in the withdrawal of funds. As I said, there are certain shortcomings in the humane inability to withdraw them and therefore a decision has also been taken and a tender for new employment for the use of European funds has been opened. We are also witnesses when it is seen that a tender is being opened, regardless of what is known and it is said that it is for the withdrawal of European funds that many critics call out from where these funds come from, whether we need them, and then the same will be very much critical that we have not withdrawn enough funds. What I also think is not good, which many people who are employed in institutions where the state and the resources of the state budget are spent to educate them. After a while, due to low personal incomes, they go either to private consulting companies or become private consultants themselves, and again our institutions that are competent to control these procedures remain without quality staff. So we would need to see how to keep the frame very often after education and acquired knowledge departing from the system. When we analyse the IPA programme and the operational programme of the financial period 2007 to 2013 we see that the most resources are allocated to the operational environmental protection programme and that, during that period, as much as 53.79% were paid and that we have requested 94.97% of the funds for this programme from the start of implementation until 31.12.2016. In this programme, wild dumps are being rehabilitated, regional waste management centres are being built, sewerage systems are being built, waste water treatment devices, and it is not surprising that we have just come from this programme and withdrawn the most funds and received funds from EU funds. Furthermore, within the framework of the operational transport programme, 7 contracts were terminated, so we have only 63% of the funds requested, although 382m euros were agreed under the programme, and 236, which means that we have agreed more, but here, there has been a breakup of 7 contracts, so there is still something lower funds requested in the final. When we review a few other programs, then we can notice that there are 11 competitions published from the operational programme of effective human potential during that period, which is commendable, for example. from the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, for the period 2014-2020, only 4 invitations to tender. This is where we expected, and I think that there is a lot of shouting for the rural area, not only the rural area that includes those that include those who do not work on EU funds, but under the rural area are all the settlements that are below 5,000 inhabitants. The report also identified 28 new cases of irregularities, including 23 under the European Agricultural Fund for Regional Development. We are also likely to have problems and these criticisms that the new programming period has been called for all four competitions in the rural development programme. The Office for the Prevention of Irregularity and fraud has drawn up additional instructions, guidelines, methodology and carried out various activities to ensure that the Irregular Reporting System has as few reports and suspicions of irregularities as possible. So here is another expression of my personal desire and of the Croatian Democratic Community club, with a positive opinion. We will accept this report to schedule as many tenders as possible in the next period so that we can withdraw as much funds as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76481	I thank my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76482	Thank you, Vice President. So, colleagues Juričev-Martinchev, you mentioned that in my presentation, I listened a lot, but I'll look back on only this one part that's being talked about the operational program of effective human potential, so you pointed out and I'll refer to it. So you've even said 11 contests, and I'd say this is how we're talking about 2016. And that's definitely where we have to say about civil society, we should say, it didn't happen again that year in 2016. The worst was indeed the period of Oreshkovic's government, and there was indeed one period that was extremely difficult, many associations and civil society did not even recover. When you mentioned 11, so this programme of effective human potential is extremely important for civil society almost when we talk about it, and when you say these 11 programmes, then I should point out that the smaller part of those who refer to the wider circle of potential users, and that most of these tenders were directed towards direct allocation of funds, which means that especially associations or civil society could not appear in that competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76483	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. Answer from my colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76484	Thank you. Comrade Alfirev, I will give you the right to know more about this program than I do. What you can read about effective human potential is a program that doesn't even provide us with too much resources, nor can we withdraw them. So some of the tenders that have been issued are the total value of a million euros, so then I don't know no more than 10m euros until one of the construction of the sewer system comes alone for a city of about 70m euros. However, I would not agree that there was, because it says encouraging social entrepreneurship, insurance of teaching assistants and professional communications intermediaries, and I don't see that it's quite intended for one particular association if volunteers are continuing, then I suppose any school can be reported. And now that I'm not counting and I'm sure there are 11 competitions far more than four competitions from another program. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76485	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76486	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Juričev-Martinchev, your secretary of state, says that the funds from the previous financial period in the phase of the projects have not failed since you are the chairman of the Committee on Regional Development and Funds, I do not agree with your colleague as Secretary of State, but I am interested to explain to me exactly how these funds have not failed from the previous financial period in the phase of the projects, exactly which decisions, processes, which have been happening to them and in which the procedures have now been, when that is said, failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76487	Thank you. Answer from a colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76488	Thank you. counterparts Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, what the secretary of state said would be best for him to explain. As far as I know which way they are, the funds are working, and if some money is foreseen for a particular project, it has failed to be spent until that date. I'm not sure how much he doesn't go down. In the only case, only if it happens that a lower-value contest is opened in the meantime, so all together until that date we manage to withdraw what I'm afraid is very, very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76489	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues of the seven of you who have remained. So this report ends on 31.12.2016. This is neither current nor this 2016 data speak of the force of RS absorption for the use of EU funds, nor of the current capacitation primarily of the public sector for the preparation, negotiation and implementation of EU projects. This report on the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia in 2016 may actually be an opportunity for us all to repeat together a lesson on what European funds are, what these funds are to us and how they are available to us. However, here is the density today in the Assembly, in fact, of how sensitive we Assembly representatives are to this extremely important topic. By entering the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, we are, in addition to pre-accession assistance programmes from the financial perspective of 2007 to 2013, which extremely ends on 31 March this year, the Republic of Croatia has become a beneficiary of the European Structural and Investment Funds from which almost 11 billion euros are available for the Republic of Croatia in the financial perspective of 2014 to 2020, namely 10,766 billion euros. For the purpose of this cohesion policy, 8.4 billion euros were provided, slightly more than 2 billion euros, that is for agriculture and rural development, and 253m euros for fisheries. So a total of 10.7 billion euros. The 10.7 billion euros is the cleanest, healthiest, cheapest if you will, the most potent money we have today on the Croatian market. These are the funds for which RS computers in terms of improving the weakest segments of the domestic economy, such as structural labour market problems, for which the Republic of Croatia has one of the lowest employment rates, participation in the labour market. These are the means that we could raise innovation, which also makes us the worst country of all Member States in Central and Eastern Europe. These are the funds that should ultimately raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and raise it from the bottom of EU member states. The Republic of Croatia lost 11% of the real value of GDP from 2009 to 2015, making it one of 7 Member States with the deepest and longest recession in the EU. It is precisely this fact that speaks plasticly enough about how important the absorption of EU funds as a tool for raising GDP growth is. But is that what we do? Well, according to the latest report by the European Commission and the analysis of not only this report, because this report is a dog, we are clearly not successful at it. The fact is, unlike 2016, to which this report relates, in 2017 we made progress, first of all, in the amount of competitions scheduled and the verification of funds. However, when we look at these results as a whole, they are still extremely low. Unlike 2016, in 2017 out of a total of 10.7 billion euros, how many total locations and all ESI funds in the financial envelope 2014-2020 so far have been opened competitions of 5.6 billion euros, which makes up 52% of the total location. Progress compared to 2016 has been made in the increase of contracted funds. This is the level of the agreed funds in 2017. 3.7 billion euros, which is 35% of the total allocation. But now comes that crucial moment, i.e. a data that is the only real indicator of the success of the EU withdrawal. So, of the 3.7 billion euros agreed in 2017, we withdrew, so a total of 927 million euros were paid, that is 7.5%. Why is such a misunderstanding of the agreed and paid funds? Well, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, when we know that over 100,000 people work in the public service, and that the new 10.7 billion euros, some perhaps more than 1000 people, are involved, then the results are expected. In the years to come by the end of this financial perspective, by 2020 or 2023, the biggest problem will be implementation. There will be narrow throats in the capacity of implementing bodies who simply will not be able to process the amount of reports received from individual projects of users, and they will be late, and it is evident that they are already late with the payment of funds, which can actually lead to a disaster, i.e. decomitment, i.e. until the funds are recovered. Well, what do we do? Well, unfortunately, I'm afraid there's not much that can be done because this government has missed, and that's what the European Commission has concluded in its recent report, to implement structural reforms and, above all, the public administration that is crucial to the EU's withdrawal system. Our public administration simply isn't capable, it's not capacitated to implement already agreed projects, and it's proof that this is how projects so-called. great values, i.e. projects of national importance such as transport infrastructure projects, railways Dugo Selo-Križevci, i.e. the Cross-State border, such as the bridge Ciovo, such as Dubrovnik airport, as well as the Pelješki bridge, where we failed to make certain advances such as that, an agreement with the neighbouring country. The implementation of these major-value projects speaks sufficiently of central government capacitation, and when we descend to 556 units of local self-government, then we are aware that not implementing structural public administration reform in synergy with the lack of local self-government reform, that this is a road to disaster at least as far as withdrawal of EU funds is concerned. Let us now start from the public sector to the private sector, i.e. with infrastructure projects towards projects to boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I think the heart of our economy, though a little sick heart, is micro and small enterprises, it's from two to 200 employees, over 2,000 have appeared in the E-impulse tender, so back in 2016, and that's where this report applies, the value of the support requested by some 455 million kuna, so 218 thousand kuna per project, so that's a relatively small amount of money. But for these companies, it's extremely big money, the money they were counting on, the money they had plans for. Detention of selection and support procedures freaks entrepreneurs out, demotes them to report themselves in the future and to spend energy at all in an attempt to report to EU competitions. It's similar in the public sector. Late evaluations of projects for a 7-2 rural development project evaluation lasted over a year. For measure 7 4 the evaluation is not yet complete, but despite all the ministers' promises. The question is, who is responsible for this situation, actually? I'm not going to say, like my fellow MOST colleague, that this is the situation that the political elite is responsible for and that all governments have been responsible so far. Actually, you're responsible. I don't mean directly to you personally, I don't even think about your ministry, but I mean the government as a whole. This government has received citizens' trust, this government has also received this House's trust as a majority, but it has received a majority and has promised citizens structural reforms that are unfortunately not implemented. Instead of implementing structural reforms in local self-government, the government is losing energy on laws such as lex sheriffs. Instead of going into structural public administration reform, the government itself is trying to figure out what is important in the Istanbul Convention. So it's a matter of priorities that are completely, completely disturbed. So I can finally conclude that I don't know if the SDP club will support this report, because this report is a set of data that are of course correct, which are correct. However, what the SDP club certainly will not support will not support, and it will not support the government's policy towards systems dealing with the absorption of EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76491	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Matjana. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76492	Mr. Mateo, you said Croatia should have used EU development funds. However, the fact is that she did not take advantage of them, either incompetent or those funds, that is to say, or these funds are actually a cat in a bag that can't even be used. I think it's a combination of both. On the one hand, the conditions for obtaining money from funds are such that we cannot achieve it, and on the other hand, the ruling majority has done nothing about it now and before and in fact the biggest lie that our citizens, who were served to them when they joined the EU, was that once they joined the EU, we would give little and they would get a lot. Well, that was the story of Jadranka Kosor. She said the good news is that we are a poor country, it's a good thing we don't have because as an EU, there's a lot they'll give us. However, as time passes, it is seen that Croatia is only failing in the EU, it can be seen that EU issues are enormous, and after the exit of Great Britain from the EU will be even bigger. And that the funds we get back aren't really equal to the funds we give for it. And it is being put into question, that is, the meaning of EU membership itself, that is, benefits Croatia from that membership. If we look at statistical indicators of the number of employees, if we look at what Croatia produces everything is falling. After the failure of shipbuilding under the EU directive, there will be a few thousand more unemployed, and there will be more GDP and what else to say. We are in the EU, and the sooner people realize it, the sooner we get out of it and save ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76493	I thank my colleague Pernar. Come in, mate Matteljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So one of the reasons why I voted in a referendum to join the EU and why I urged citizens to vote to join the EU is precisely the EU funds which, as I said in my debate, are the cheapest, most potential funds that we can have on the market today. The fact that we are not capable of withdrawing these funds from the EU funds is not the EU's fault, but our fault. We don't even have to invent hot water. Let's look at one of Poland or one of Slovakia's successes. The fact that we are at the bottom of Europe after withdrawing funds from the EU is not an EU problem, it is our problem, it is the problem of our not implementing reforms, it is the problem of our unpreparedness, it is the problem of our public administration, it is the problem of our local self-government. There are bright examples, there are a whole series of local self-government units that just through EU funds have raised their budgets several times. So you can. EU funds are real, they exist. There are procedures that are the way they are. However, if you have knowledge, if you have potential, if you have motive, will and desire, you can use those resources wisely. I repeat once again, so the fact that we haven't used it is not the EU's fault, but it's our own fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76495	I would like to thank my colleague Matteljan for his reply. The next replica of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76496	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Matteljan, you spoke, criticised the disproportionate of the agreed and withdrawn money, or the euro. Really, if we don't withdraw the funds, I'd say all that stuff earlier in vain to us players. However, it is not a criticism that is being directed and to be addressed to this ministry. In my view, their task would not, not to call as many tenders as possible, but to sign the highest value of the contract, and all that follows with that signator, the user of these EU funds with the contractors, because the most often done is the highest value of works when building certain municipal infrastructure projects and facilities. This is already the problem of the Public Procurement Act, the Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure. This is where we encounter a lot of problems, and you certainly know it as someone who also calls for a competition and when it comes to projects and buildings of several hundred thousand or which million kunas as it happens and what happens when it comes to buildings worth tens of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76497	I would like to thank my colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. This is my colleague Mattelian's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76498	Thank you very much. I believe you listened well to me, that you heard when I said that I personally, so I don't consider it solely the Ministry of Regional Development. On the contrary, it is the whole government's fault, this ministry perhaps least. The problem is the capacitation of people working on the processing of projects. For this particular example of this e-impulse, you have received some 1,000, 1000 forms, meaning 1000 reports that should have been processed and then you are contacted by employees who go on vacation, cannot process those reports, and the users are left without money. So they wait instead of a month, two, three, they wait six months, a year, and their projects fail. I'm not saying this is the Ministry's fault that Croatian railways are unable to make one excessive public tender. I'm not saying, therefore, that it was the Ministry's fault that, say, the state didn't talk to the BBiH at bilateral level before the Peljega Bridge was negotiated, and it solved those problems and put them aside. It is not a problem of this ministry, therefore, that there is no roof institution in the Republic of Croatia, a roof ministry that would oversee exclusively as one Ministry system of withdrawing funds. So, but as a whole this Ministry and Croatian Railways are part of the government. So this government is responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76499	I would like to thank my colleague Matteljan for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76500	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I'm glad you said no one is to blame but our incompetence. So other countries in Europe that were far behind us had the same opportunities as we did and they took advantage of them. We are simply incompetent, and this incompetence is most visible in this competition that you have just mentioned, which is the Impuls, the contest in which the applications have exceeded 806 million kuna, the allocation has been 250 million, 2099 applications, and what proves the true incompetence that we have in the management of what has been given in our hand, therefore, the grants, we do not know how to manage them, and yet, I stress, the inability of the E-impulsion contest that 84 days stood forgotten, but literally forgotten in the halls of the Ministry. After that, the evaluation was, therefore, waiting for results instead of 120 days, a year and three months. You know what it's like to wait a year and three months for an entrepreneur? Today's entrepreneur, some kind of machine or program he requested a year and 3 months ago, has six new versions today. Well, he doesn't need it anymore. And if we don't talk about several thousand jobs here because we know very well, I personally wrote apps for the Impuls, we know very well that it binds jobs. So it was perfectly normal for you to forget about these applications, rather than for people to actually get hired. And that's what the problem is. That's real evidence of incompetence. And to make matters worse, they were trying to justify themselves by anonymously reporting, so when I sent the prime minister a representative question of whether it was true that an anonymous application had arrived because the SORs were actually doing the evaluation of tenders whose evolution was 250 million kuna, then he replied: yes, unfortunately, the evaluation was done by people who were not competent. And what are we going to talk about? We have black and white on paper proof of our incompetence. So it's not the EU's fault, but we're simply guilty ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76501	I thank my dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Answer me, fellow Mattelian.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, that's what I said. So, what's the new slogan of my party, it's all up to us, and of course it's true for all of us. It's all up to us. There are examples of good practice, so there are local self-government units, regional self-government, there are consulting companies that are trying to withdraw from this force EU funds what is necessary to implement projects in order to increase their competitiveness. Such examples exist. Of course, it's not just building infrastructure. So it is not the purpose of EU projects to build only footsteps, to build roads, to build homes of culture, but, therefore, to me above all, to invest in the competitiveness of our economy. And that's where we made the most of our appointments. So, most of all, we've made an appointment in relation to the public sector towards the private sector, and that part, therefore, that segment in which we've scheduled, gives fuel to those like colleagues of Pernar who tell us what the EU is going to do to us? The EU is bad. People just for that very reason begin to believe that story. What the EU will do to us when we can't even withdraw the free money the EU gives us so that we can make ourselves more competitive and better. I am aware and I am convinced, therefore, that at the top of the ministry there are quality true people who would like to, who want to make a better step. But what they lack, they lack me, above all the courage to engage in public administration reform. The public administration is the main brake for development not only of the withdrawal of EU funds but of many other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76503	I would like to thank my colleague Matjana for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. He's not present. This concludes the debate. I thank the respected Secretary of State Velimir Zunac for his explanation and his associates Filip Miličević, head of the department and expert associate Hani Kos for his presence. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted the points for today. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda item Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. I also thank you for a pleasant rest of the day. Session adjourned at 17.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-15-0.u76504	And the last point we vote on. Report on the use of EU pre-accession assistance programmes, European structural instruments for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes and European structural instruments for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes: 87 for, 0 abstentions, 2 against, that a conclusion has been made that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body. Before we continue the work, the point we are discussing, I would like to inform you only about the plan of the debate in the Croatian Parliament for next week. So on Tuesday, we would start with the proposal for a plan to bring RS legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2018. Second, the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Third, final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the service law in the OSR. Fourth, Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Reporter of Irregularity. On Wednesday and Thursday, the amendments to the final proposal of the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure would be announced, and we would finish voting on Friday. Thank you very much, and now we're going back to the agenda.
