ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66176	I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the Agrokor issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66177	Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66178	I am looking for a break on behalf of the club" in Sava Marof and firing 60 workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66179	Okay. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66180	Thank you very much on behalf of the club MOST I am looking for a break of 10 minutes on forgotten areas, and this is most obvious about not passing two years of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66181	Thank you. She's a colleague of Jack's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66182	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I request a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66183	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? Here's your colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66184	I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA about the situation in Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66185	Okay. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66186	I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of GLAS and HSU, the topic is traffic safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66187	Thank you. If no one ever hears from me again, I'll take a break by 9.55 minutes. [[9:45 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] We continue our work, the first is the Club of Representatives Independent for Croatia, Honored colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66189	Dear colleagues, the hysteria of the media about Agrokor, political hysteria, do we still have all the answers? Is Agrokor to be saved? Do you need a rescue plan at all? A rhetorical question, when he employs these business giant tens of thousands of people. Will Agrokor save bureaucrats and politics? What's fate? Or are we gonna leave her? If Agrokor had been left on the free market, what would have happened? What would they get, what would they lose? Who has the answer to these questions? Investigative journalists, USKOK, government, opposition. We still don't have a concrete answer to any of these questions. Now the opposition has risen, and today there will be an 11 o'clock vote on the fate of one person. What are we talking about? Where were the last 20, 30 years where the legal system of an independent institution was to be established? What do we have today? What about the CNB? Is she responsible, CNB for the flow of money, getting in, getting out of the country? Do you have the goods, the goods have the customs certificate, you could see what was coming out, what was coming in here. You have the IRS, etc. Here are some questions. Where is the Agrokora Fund secured and where is the Agrokor Book Property? Do any of our investigative journalists know that? What about the CNB? I'm talking about them again. It's available to them, they have access to stock prices. They could see if the price of the goods coming out of here as soon as Agrokor was engaged, they had all that data. Is Todoric the only one involved in this affair, what about the believers? Did he get them to take credit? And later, the split of the money, and where did it end up? On the off-shore companies. It is standard procedure in Croatia. Croatians are accounting, they are masters of creative accounting. Now, I'm talking about Agrokor, and no one has noticed that from 2004 to 2012, it has drained out of the country $34 billion. How come now? And now the hysteria of Agrokora. How long will it take us to advance the system? We still have that gray economy about 30%. at the top of Europe. How much is all this gonna cost because we know how much this is gonna cost. When there's a order of payments to the claimant, from the administration further, do we know if there's any answer to that question? What are we losing, what are we getting? But one thing's for sure, they're gonna lose taxpayers, why? Because in the 30 years of this country since it was created, we haven't created a system. There's a rabbit in that bush. What are the lessons learned? What kind of business model will companies look like after this Agrokor? There will be new legislation on new legal laws that will allow people to work, as I would say in an atmosphere of economic democracy, because it is not the same economic democracy and political democracy. In political democracy, always 50% of the people are lost, this has been proved here. And economic democracy says if you're capable, you earn money, you hire people, and you pay them, what kind of model is that gonna look like? This reminds me of a sinking boat, the whole state, actually, Agrokor can be a synonym for it, and we have that night vessel, we're throwing water out until the boat sinks. What's this model gonna look like? What will be here in the future if we continue with this kind of business atmosphere? Who's coming here to invest? No one's coming. These are some lessons because we are waiting for us, if we continue like this, until 2020 the script of Cyprus is waiting for us here. Because when the pension system and the health system breaks, then we will all ask the IMF for help, the European Bank, and that will happen 100% if we do not change the laws and standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66190	Thank you. Let's move on, the second one's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66191	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. In Croatia there is, more specifically in Sava Marof there is a company Quasac which has a tradition of 140 years, producing fresh yeast, I would say, bread in Croatia. The owners are French, the company... Since yesterday, yesterday's decision is to close off that plant of production and fire 67 workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will now just briefly return to what was once in this area. In Croatia there were two Kvasca factories, one was in Podravka and they were the same... sold years ago for 5.5m euros to that factory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question should be how did Podravka sell it all together. And shortly after that, they closed the factory of Kvasca in Podrava or Koprivnica. There were several factories in the area of the former Yugoslavia, in Ljubljana, Belgrade, Banja Luka, Skopje and two in Croatia. They're all closed now, only one left in the Sava Marof and the French are now closing up at the Sava Marof factory. The Croats will no longer have fresh yeast or we can say symbolic Croats will no longer eat their bread. It is the French's intention to move that production to Hungary. Or that in what is now in Hungary, it goes to the market of the former Yugoslavia or Croatia. The point is that this Quasac factory that works in the Sava Marof is not non-profitable. No, she's profitable. That's what I'm saying, and I know the data, because I'm the captain there. They close it so they can be even more profitable and make more money for the bosses. And now I'm going to do a little parallel. Not long ago, I read in the "Evening List" that Mr. Jeff Bezos, the owner of the Amazon, opened a store where there will be no merchants. You come in, you log in nice and you look, you don't have to say good day, you go out, you load your card nicely, and there's no merchants. That's our future, probably. There won't be any merchants, but Jeff Bezos will probably be richer by $10 billion. It will have no more than 50 billion, but it will have 70 billion or 60 billion wealth. What's the difference between billions and 60 billion I don't know, maybe you know? Is it enough for a man a billion or does it take 60 billion? But clearly, integrity has no limits. And that happens with factories in Croatia. This is now not just “Kvasac” these are all other factories that have a foreign owner or our owner. We sold the factory with 140 years of history, where they worked generations, including my grandfather, to close it now for the French to close and to import the same product from Hungary for 140 years. And not because it's not profitable, but because the French want more profit. Probably buy better helicopters and better planes. And the fact that 60 and a few people are about to get fired at this stage alone, it's like no one cares. Well, I don't care. I care about both “Kvasac” and all other factories and production in the Republic of Croatia. We don't need hundreds of shopping malls where we're going to sell products from France, Germany or I don't know where, but we need domestic production. And when we're surprised that our young people are leaving Croatia, it's no wonder. I don't know how many of those 68 workers will end up in Germany or France or Hungary. But he'll leave. This is a cry for people and for production in the Republic of Croatia. I heard President Macron's coming to the Republic of Croatia now. Well, here's what I'm appealing to the Prime Minister and the president for them to talk about. To do what we should do. Protecting national interest and talking as an economic diplomacy. Just don't let it be in France, Germany or England, let it be said in Croatia that all Croats hear what we're talking about. To protect national interests. And that we are here protecting national interests. To pass laws that will protect the production, the citizens of Croatia and the workers. The 68 workers who are going to get fired. And don't let anyone tell me that we can't. We make laws and we need to protect our national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66192	Thank you. We're going to the next club, and that's the club of representatives of the Independent Lists. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66193	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, in the last few days, we all remember our undeveloped ends. When it snows, we see that the PR services are doing a good job for our politicians we see in the snow. It is good that HV reacts in elementary disasters, it is good to paint ministers in uniforms, it is good to have the prime minister there, but these ends have been forgotten. 250 thousand people live in these areas of Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Like, Zagorje, once lived here and not long ago and over 500 thousand people, but the fact, while now the concern in the snow is being expressed for those parts, that we also don't have emergency assistance, that we don't have basic conditions for life, we don't have health services, we don't have health homes, but we don't have what's most important. We don't have the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, i.e. We have it that changed in 2002-2014 for the last seven times. And what's the point of being yourself. And what's the point of being yourself. Because if we had promised the Law of the Ministry of Regional Development, today these municipalities, cities, local self-government, those 250 thousand other people, mostly the old population, would have enough capacity to do the job themselves, and even that what happens when the snow falls, to be presented to the tourists. Because in other countries not far away, when the snow falls it's well charged, and with us it's the other way around. With us, the only thing that works is the PR service. That's why, when I look at the laws that come into the process and I read them, here's the Law of Courts, about the seat of the courts, then I get a little panicy because, for example, The court in Sinj. Cetina Krajina is bigger than numerous counties. There are more residents than numerous counties. Expansion for 10 new municipal courts. Imagine the court in Sinj was opened during foreigners, Austria-Hungarian in 1875, 3 years ago it was shut down and became a permanent service of the Split Municipal Court. And now in the changes, in the free Republic of Croatia, foreigner, Austria-Hungarian has opened that possibility for us and the Croatian state is shutting down. We don't make laws in the interest of these areas, we shut down institutions in these areas. In these centres where there was a source of human potential that inhabited our Zagreb today and local self-government have no opportunity to clean snow. As it began in this karst region, in Lica, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagorje, and especially in this karst area. How much we take care of these areas in charge, how much is a folklore about a demographic picture of what my colleague Stramota said that the stone, the tough one, would want to move out of that dirty country, from that potential where people have survived for generations of hard times, as I said in times of aliens. The court in Sinj municipality is only an example of the state's relationship to those parts of Dalmatia, like, the Gorski Kotar, Zagorje. Today I'm going to send a memo to the mayor, all the mayors, the mayors, the council representatives to meet and sit down. There's no time in front of us anymore. We need to pass the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, increase the physical capacity of these areas, we need to preserve institutions in these areas because it is unfortunate that hundreds of kilometers of people travel to Split in court, and they do not have vehicles, they are mostly older people, that we do not have health services. And that's why I expect us all to be together. Finally stop what this folklore said about the demographic image. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66194	Thank you. Let's move on. Now it's up to the esteemed fellow Pupovac on behalf of the representative of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66195	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The weather that we now encounter, which used to be common, and in recent years they seem to be exceptional and never happened. It is remarkable in one thing that in most parts of our country we have welcomed these weather disasters especially in areas that are economically weakened, demographically devastated and neglected by states. So it was nice to see that the prime minister was in Delnice, it was nice to see that the army was the first to react in the area of Gorski Kotar. But at the same time, a good part of the territory of our state territory from southern Karlovac areas from the municipality of Krnjak to practically Zrmanja, to the front of Knin, to the front of Obrovac, all those areas were iced and today they are. I will read you several of the most critical settlements in the Municipality of Gračac and in the area of Lower Lapca Mazin, Bruvno, Klapavica, Deringaj, Velika Popina. For days and weeks they've been cut off from the world, they can't get a hospital car, they can't go anywhere. The people who have farms, the few who have farms, barely keep that cattle alive and on a diet. For many people, we don't really know what kind of circumstances they are, whether they're alive or dead, and it shows on the one hand one complete technical impediment, and on the other hand our social, human incompatibility as a society and as a state as if it's not about our ends and as if it's not about our people. Fortunately, there are people who were willing to react. As far as Krnjak was concerned, the city of Zagreb reacted to the encouragement of the local chief and thanks to communication, roads have been clearing up towards the settlements that have been blocked and completely cut off from the snow since yesterday. The Croatian Army should also thank the Minister of Defence and the people who run these operations have come to some of the Gracac areas since this morning and are heading towards those most critical settlements such as Deringaj, such as Velika Popina, such as some others. But there are areas where they can't enter like the border area with Bosnia and Herzegovina in the eastern district of Gracac and we have to do something to help these people. They may not have many and they are not attractive to big parties and their voters, but they are people, they are our citizens. Living in these areas is already an extremely difficult environment for everyone who lives there, and for a country as one Commissioner of Korenica said years ago, one who lives in the Lower Lapca or who lives in the eastern regions of Gracaca should see it every morning in the language of that time and the currency of that time only because he lives there because he is condemned to live there. But of course the state doesn't do anything. For what? So because the rich take everything and what the state has provided when it comes to water, when it comes to the woods, when it comes to electricity. Where does the most money go from the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Waters? For the restoration of the water supply, for the restoration of the infrastructure, it goes there to the counties that are the richest. And I don't blame those counties because they're well organized and they have people who can make projects and have people who can react in time. But I resent the state that it has not yet passed the Law on Supported Areas, which has not yet established a fund for assisted areas. I resent us in the House except for some colleagues, such as fellow Bulls who spoke before me, we're not talking about these topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66196	Thank you. Let's move on. The fifth debate of a respected colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, on behalf of the Society of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66197	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's since we've been put on the agenda for the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, this is probably one of the last breaks to be taken in this term. But let's get on with it. I took a break to discuss the situation in Agrokor, the arrival of Mr. Fabris Petrusk and Mrs. Irene Weber confirms a single policy of the continuity of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Dalic as directly in charge. It is evident that after Ramljak's Ramljak, it is evident that the Texo Management remains Alix Partners. How much can you trust the team that brought the whole settlement and the whole process into this state or their successors? I don't know, we'll see. Let's give people a chance, but I need to call from this pay phone for transparency and I need to ask a few questions. Did anyone check these people, or how deep did the services check them? To whom does the Croatian Government give such power and so much responsibility? Are these people in conflict of interest? Are we going to find out in a few months whether or not they're in conflict of interest? Has it taken almost a year to discover that Mr. Ramljak is in conflict of interest? Will there be a change in the law for Commissioners to be subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest? That's all the questions I want to ask from here. Mrs. Weber is an investment banker from the banking sector, can we believe that a person who has a banking career behind him will take care of the interests of workers, the interests of small suppliers, or will take care of the interests of banks, Russian, American funds, some domestic banks that are already in which group of creditors? That's all the questions we want answered. I call again for transparency, is it true that 9% of the workers are less today than April 10th? Did these people leave alone, were they fired? We want this information and we want the new commissioners publicly to be much more transparent than Mr Ramljak, not only because of the public, but also because of his intransparency, we would not find them or the whole process again in a month. There is also talk about adapting the settlement, adapting the settlement in a way that religious groups can be reorganised so that there is no complaint. I see in it a confession that if there is a settlement, and without it, there will be a series of lawsuits. So I call on the Commissioners from this place also to discuss how many Croatian citizens or taxpayers will have to bear losses in Agrokor or the consequences of this process. You should also say something about the possibility of bankruptcy, not just Agrokor himself or the company within Agrokor Group but related companies, because when you work with Agrokor, let's say 80% of your volume as a private firm and then charge maybe 10, 20, or 30% of that whole job, will you be able to survive? Are you going to have enough money, because of the unpaid claims you as a related society might end up a small supplier in bankruptcy? How many of those societies are there going to be? Here's the call from this pay phone to get us that information, to open up a public debate about it, because without transparency, we'll meet again where we were a few weeks ago. These days, cynical Minister Dalic says the opposition should light a candle here on the Stone Gate which does not have to deal with Agrokor. That a candle should be lit, however, not because the opposition should not be dealt with by Agrokor, but because Minister Dalic did not deal with Agrokor in her term in 2010 until December 2011. Bons were being released, strange acquisitions were, tax inspection for large systems hasn't been for years and has been entering Agrokor for years in related companies with Agrokor, huge loans, a whole series of irregularities I've counted from this pay phone several times. Why was Minister Dalic in 2011, and it was too late not to deal with Agrokor? Yes, she and the ministers both before and after her, and not only should the financials light a candle which they have allowed Agrokor to grow to this level at which he is today and be one big problem and burden with a questionable future for all of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66198	Thank you, too. And we're going to the last debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66199	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The story of Agrokora is one large umbrella beneath which the umbrella somehow all other topics fall into another plan. Both myself and a bunch of colleagues actually used this pay phone on several occasions to talk about Agrokor. Agrokor is also a serious problem, a problem to be solved, but life goes on. People live, people ride the roads and people die. Not only are they killed in this period when they are an elemental accident, so they can be taken and absolutely are extreme conditions, but what should be talked about equally is that in 2011, Croatia brought the National Road Traffic Safety Programme for 2011-2020 on the trail of other EU countries with the task of reducing the number of road deaths by 50%. In 2010, there were 426 of our fellow citizens who died with the idea of 2020 being 213. Where are we right now? In 2016, 307 people were killed in road transport and 2017. 331. Therefore, the increase is between 2016 and 2017. It's alarming, actually getting red and an alarming situation where we need to think about a few things. The human factor is always a human factor. However, we need to see what our condition on the roads is, how they are technically equipped, how they are equipped in terms of security, and we also need to see what kind of rolling stock we are driving. It is now all the time in the paper that laws are passed in Germany prohibiting the use of diesel-fueled cars and all actually refer to 2020. We don't have to go to Germany, it's enough to go to Ljubljana, they've passed the same law. That in other words means new cars will come to our roads, I speak new, old diesel-fuel cars that will have a certain number of years, which not only pollute but also their safety. In that context, really, when we're all dealing with Agrokor, people on the roads die. The question is why is the increase, the number of deaths between 2016 and 2017. What we need to do, what we need to do, what we need to do in terms of and regulation but also in terms of what individual and municipalities and cities in the country need to do to make the number of deaths less. In that context, we at the club GLAS and HSU have decided and have organized a roundtable in this House today where we call all the experts dealing with traffic safety to hear them. You know, because we all have a way of calling in the experts, to hear them, we're still doing it our way. What we want to hear, see also the result of what we propose in terms of amendments to the law, what we suggest in terms of changes that are. Other countries did, too, have different solutions. There's one solution where, say, all the traffic lights behind midnight in cities are in orange, so there's no more traffic lights, and that's how better flow is enabled, so there's a series of solutions. We kind of stare at it but the fact that it is, that 2017. 331 our fellow citizen died in road traffic. Is it possible in 2020 to really come to be 213, this hour we know it is not possible to come but let us try to go from year to year to reduction, not to be an increase between 2016 and 2017 and get an answer to the question of what happened on our roads and what happened to road safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66200	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate after the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66201	I see that the esteemed colleague Mader has raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66202	Thank you, dear Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a break, given that winter conditions and the conduct of the winter service are, but I can speak immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66203	No, no, we'll respect the Rules of Procedure and meet at 11.40. It's 11:30. Here it is, the break is up and my colleague Mader is ready, running towards the pay phone. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.40 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66205	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I asked for a break to read the letter from the Association of Croatian Road Transporters. In today's morning break, there was talk about traffic and the snow that buried our roads. And here I am asked by the Association of Croatian Road Carriers to read the memo because I don't think they are a small factor in the development of our economy and also, by their allocation of money, express dissatisfaction with the winter conditions and the cleaning of our highways. On several occasions, the Croatian road transporter association expressed indignation with unhappiness, unpreparedness and inadequate treatment of all those involved in the work of the winter service in Croatia. The same situation is repeated year after year. Freight vehicles have been forced to stop for 4 days and drivers are exposed to the worst conditions and colds without the basic existential conditions stopped in the middle of nowhere. We especially stress the following absurd situations. Due to weather conditions that are really bad in certain parts of the country and are difficult to collapse systems in the permeable part of the country. For example, on the Zagreb-Gorican move. In fact, given the real situation on certain sections of the road, it is evident that the closed shares are completely passable and safe for traffic. It is unacceptable for the area winter services to operate according to the weather forecast and not according to the real situation. Slovenia has secured clear and passing roads and a smooth flow of traffic all the way to the border crossings with Croatia. Then they stopped on the Croatian side of the vehicle for days. It is a shame that the neighbouring country can and can organise a smooth flow of traffic and we are unable to adapt to the situation. Today, with available weather models and staff in the winter service, the same service is not prepared, ran out of salt and is given similar, unreasonable explanations. There's no excuse for the unhappiness of everyone involved in that chain. Carriers who had to work for example on the Rijeka move these days were forced to drive through Slovenia to Rijeka, which caused 300 to 400 euros of higher cost and a few hours of delay. That's why everything is clear to harm the port of Rijeka. We stress that for two weeks we have been looking for a joint meeting with representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, Ministry of Interior, Croatian Roads and Croatian Highways. The meeting is finally scheduled for Friday 2 March 2018 at 10 am in the premises of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. It is a shame that when we warned in time of potential problems there was no response and now a meeting will be held after the damage has already been done. We can only hope that at this meeting we will achieve an adequate solution for the future. Here's a memo sent by the Croatian Road Vehicles Association, so I appeal that this is no longer happening on our highways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66206	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66207	Agent Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66208	On behalf of the club MOST, I request a 10-minute break on the subject of the lecture of the Doljani spring in the municipality of Capljin. I can talk right now, so I don't need a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66209	Do you agree that my colleague, Grumoja, elaborates immediately? Are there other interested breakers? If you don't, you're welcome to join us at once.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66210	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I called this break to warn you of a big problem that happened recently. Namely, a meeting was held in Croatian waters, representatives of the Croatian Waters, representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. Minister Coric himself. So there were representatives of the town of Metkovic, representatives of the municipality of Capljin. The town of Metkovic has run the Doljani springs for many years. That spring was built by the town of Metkovic. He's been investing in it for years. For 2,000 years I thought 12 million kuna was invested in that spring and water from that spring, so that water was used by residents of the town of Metkovic, but of course the residents mean Doljana which is now, meaning the collapse of the former state was found in another country. And the problem has a solution, and the solution is the establishment of a sister company that would then pay for the water concession, so these are not some high amount of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the municipality of Capljina has nothing to do with that source, except on its territory. Just as the spring spring is located on the territory of the town of Metkovic, it is not the city of Metkovic, it is MPKLM. So this question could have been, so there could have been a solution. For four years, we were pressured by the Capljin municipality, of course I commend them, people struggled for their interests, pressured us to start a joint venture. We didn't agree to that either, and the current mayor of the HDZ ranks Dalibor Milan signed on his record from that meeting in the Croatian waters, which is not only a simple record, but also the conclusions that the Doljani source will surrender and that all parties agree to the municipality of Capljina, that the municipality of Capljina will establish its own, that their municipal enterprise will manage that source and then deliver water to the town of Metković. All those investments that are the town of Metković, i.e. Metković d.o.o. Had in that spring, as it would be paid through the price of water, and of course they would determine the price of water. So that's handing over what's ours, our property we've been investing in for years. Here I see now he's the mayor, we had a press conference at which we warned about this betrayal of the interests of the city of Metkovic and his citizens. The mayor sent a statement in which he did not answer why he agreed to such conclusions. He gave some opinion to the ministry that it should be decided by the municipality of Capljina and the town of Metkovic, that they believed in the ministry that these conclusions were best. But Ćorić will not tell us what will happen to what we have invested in and what is our property and it is not right for the mayor to be responsible for those who have appointed him, not for the citizens of his work with the interests of the city. And we will fight hard against it, we will insist that we, like, mean the city of Metkovic, or our local municipal enterprise manages that source. And we call on everyone, meaning the opposition parties in the town of Metkovic to oppose this, and we call on the mayor to manifest himself about what he signed because we often have in Croatia, not only at these local levels, to sell something in which we have invested for years in in incriminating or here, as in this case, we hand over even for zero kuna. This is absolutely inadmissible and again I say here is a necessary reaction, I call on both the Minister and the people of the Croatian waters to stop pressing our mayor, he is obviously not a man of attitude, he is a appointed man and I would ask him to stop this pressure to go towards concessions towards the Capljina Municipality. This spring was built by the citizens of Metkovic and we have to manage this spring and we will not agree to anything else like we did not agree to in four years as we managed the city. And it's the same thing with the border crossing that made me speak here to the Parliament, which is why the mayor calls us back, and he doesn't know the basic facts. He's saying that the M.P. is building border crossings, which is funny, which we all know isn't so, and at the time of ours, we didn't even let that border crossing of the Doljani open because it was inadequately built. After his arrival to power, the border crossing was also opened, and here we can see that the Doljans are in the process of surrendering to the Municipality of Capljina. We ask the mayor to take a firmer position and Minister Coric to stop pressuring our mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66211	Thank you. Representative Panenic, you've reached out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66235	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. The Mosta representative's club is seeking a 10-minute break, they would talk about the topic of slowing down Croatia's significant GDP decline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66236	All right, well, I'll give you 10 minutes off. Thank you. It's a meeting at 14.25 p.m. Honorable MPs and MPs, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.35 HOURS]] The bridge club of independent lists asked for a break on their behalf will speak MP Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66238	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I would apologize to the minister, I've taken a little time now, but it might be good to present some information as the publication of the State Statistics Institute's decline in GDP growth rate, so here she and her colleagues consider it and with the prime minister is definitely these indicators and are listed in our media as negative, as the disastrous results that are happening. In fact, in the last quarter, GDP growth was only 2%, if we say just 2%, we make a comparison. In the EU, 2.6% will say so it is not that far from that, but we see highly developed countries whose GDP levels are extremely high so that they are difficult to make comparisons. But if we take neighbouring Slovenia, then I'll tell you that in Slovenia, GDP has increased in the last quarter by 6%. What does that mean on the annual level? At the annual level, it means that Croatia will grow by 2.8% which is significantly slower than it was in 2016 when the growth was 3.2% and on the same projections, the budget for 2017 has also been based, therefore, on budget expenditure. Again, one comparison with Slovenia, it has a growth rate of 5% at year-on-year, while it was 3.1 in 2016. So we had 3.2, Slovenia had 3.1, Slovenia grew to 5% in the meantime we fell to 2.8%. So that's when we like to compare, so let's find someone who's close to us, so here's just showing what's the real problem. He slowed down one of the growth carriers, it's a retail trade of 3.4%, which means smaller private consumption. We see statements that exports also increased 7.4%, however, more slowly than it was in 2016 when it grew by 12.6%. So, on the other hand, our exports are growing but 7.4%, on the other hand we have imports that have grown strongly and now 8.6% was its growth. If we compare the total figures, the export was 103.9 billion kuna last year, importing 161 billion kuna. It is clear that the deficit is increasing and is increasing because the growth rate which is higher and cannot be compared to the smaller one rather than the overall one when looking at the deficit is large. What are the key problems listed by the Department of Statistics? Industrial production has stagnated in the last two months even dropped, for the first time since 2014. So far there has been no month that has been a decline in industrial production, for the first time we have a decline in industrial production from the government of Zoran Milanovic. One of the key issues mentioned above is shipbuilding. We know about the problems of Croatian shipbuilding, about the recent problem of Uljanika and this is a big warning. The biggest decline is in agriculture of as much as 5%, the causes are numerous from structural ones, and also the damages that have been caused by elemental disasters and which have been poorly resolved. From what we can conclude, this is actually not a conclusion, but it is mathematically correct to say that this is the slowest growth since the second quarter of 2015 and we are practically going back to the time of the crisis. The data is alarming, we really need to get stuck and start solving problems because we can't afford to have a drop in agricultural production, a drop in industrial production, that the only thing growing is tourism based on imports, it's not sustainable. And that's why I'm going to ask the minister who comes from an option that's not in charge of the economy, HDZ has taken that role, they need to answer these questions, but here I'm going to ask you to try with your influence to really raise awareness that this problem is being given more attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u66239	I thank Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71654	And now we're moving on to the agenda. First point: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Professional Education, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 250; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. With us, Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak is respected, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71655	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As you can see today is a day of pink T-shirts, so I am taking this opportunity to thank the Croatian Assembly for supporting the National Programme for the Prevention of Peer Violence and, in fact, declaring the last Wednesday of February the National Day of Fight against peer violence. So here I am drawing attention to all of you, thanking you for supporting this initiative. I also stress that the Ministry of Science and Education has specific items in the budget of around one million kuna for the prevention of school violence, school addiction and implementation of national strategies and action plans, and that we work together with a number of, means other and ministries and institutions and bodies, councils on the prevention of violence, peer violence, both in schools and otherwise prevention of violence, what is now highly expressed on the Internet. So here's the message we're sending, this day of pink T-shirts is a stop to every form of violence, especially peer violence, which then actually endangers anyone who is weaker or different. Here's so much about this day of pink T-shirts and now let me get to the bottom of this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, which actually lays the groundwork for reforming the vocational education system in the Republic of Croatia, in which about 70% of all high school students, is the introduction to vocational schools in the future. In this law, we have introduced several newspapers that are important for the development of vocational education according to the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology and the Development Programme of Professional Education. The strategy for education, science and technology did not provide important guidance for the development of the complete system but it prescribed this programme for the development of vocational education which was then adopted and is valid from 2016 to 2020 and provides for vocational education based on the framework national curricula, national curricula for vocational education, sectoral curricula and professional curricula that are then developed by this law and developed. At a session on 15 December last year, the Croatian Parliament supported and adopted the bill and addressed certain remarks, proposals and opinions and I thank you all with very constructive remarks and discussions. I believe that in this debate we have also given answers to the questions that you have asked, and in this final proposal we have included two amendments in a way that we have explained when it begins, when it actually comes to the curricula of the institution, that is, in Article 5, and also in Article 11, we have prescribed that the national centre for external evaluation and education is responsible for carrying out external evaluations by erasing the part that concerns doing so in cooperation with the Agency. So that's the paper and I'm going to brief on what we're actually introducing with this final bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education. First of all, learning based on work. A way to professional professions, professional curricula of age dimensions, therefore not only theoretical but practical learning based on work. Here it is prescribed that it can be implemented in three ways, combined programs that are actually popularly called dual programmes, then in a school with a period of time with employers, meaning a period of practice or integrated into a programme of vocational education and training, which, of course, depends on what profession it is, means the professional curricula. In any case, education for a top chef cannot be implemented in a way to read Power Point presentations but it is important that he has a very high-quality education that includes practice and this law gives the basis for this practice to be included in professional curricula in one systematic way. A link to the Croatian Qualifications Framework was also made according to levels from two to five. So HKO makes it clear that through the standard of interest and standards qualifications, education programmes and then study programmes will be linked to the labour market and this clear link to labour market needs is also included here in this final proposal, i.e. in these amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education. It is also prescribed to ensure quality in vocational education from the position of institutions and from the position of professional qualifications, so that we need to understand that these professional qualifications other than those professional competences include key competences that are then important for lifelong learning, for active citizenship and for training, which then follows everyone in his professional and private life. It is also based on the programme of development of vocational education and hierarchy, meaning that the national framework curricula is produced by a national curricula for vocational education, sectoral curricula and then those professional curricula based on both vocational education and professional education, and then each institution can and must prescribe a curricula of the institution for vocational education. I would say that the biggest newspaper is, however, the introduction of regional competence centres mentioned in the Science and Education Strategy, and how these competence centres should be developed through the basis of network adoption. In the first reading we discussed a lot, I believe that we have given some answers, and here in our law, Article 15 of the amendment and the addition of the law is clearly prescribed that the institution for vocational education, meaning the school can be appointed to a regional centre of competence and that this centre is actually a place of excellence of vocational education and training, in which with that primary activity of the schools, it also includes the implementation of learning based on work, training, training that then contributes to the quality of vocational education and training and its adaptation to the needs of the economy and labour market. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: What is important to note is that we have provided billions of kunas for the establishment of competence centres in five priority areas by 2020, the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, which is extremely important because, according to our plan, it is determined that the founders will. Countys should compete for competence centres, withdraw these funds, and this should all be under way this year. For the first period there are also areas where competence centres can compete, such as tourism and hospitality, engineering and electrical engineering, information and communication technologies, agriculture and healthcare, and we are already visiting all counties, talking to the founders and trying to bring this model closer to them as well as to report and compete for these funds by 2020. So this link between the centres of competence towards economic operators, according to employers, also ensures not only work-based learning but also training of teachers who are in schools so that this course can be conducted in order to ensure that professional competences, as well as key competences can be fully transferred to schools. Competence centres as regional competence centres will represent places where not only with certain counties but also from surrounding counties will have opportunities for teachers and employers to get not only important information, but also training programmes and develop new curricula together. Of course, in this first time, as we've said since... the year of this first period, these funds that are secured are intended for these five areas that I've listed. However, some other areas can be singled out in the next period and the other areas can be provided with funding from European programmes. And that's important, so, plan exactly that way. Of course, if we're talking right now about the centers that were planned during this first period, in this first wave, there will be several of them from a certain area throughout the Republic of Croatia. For example, if we talk about information and communication technologies, one 4-5 centres across the Republic of Croatia will cover the area and for their county, for the surrounding counties will represent a kind of HAP, for excellence in vocational education in this area. Also, the last newspaper I would like to mention here is the Council for Professional Education, which is formed and which is prescribed. 9th and which is actually an amendment to the article of the old, therefore, existing Law. 14. where all members, i.e. who appoints members, are prescribed, means 20 members of the Professional Education Council. That the Council is elected for a period of 5 years and the Council has a very important role to play since it coordinates the work of all stakeholders in the field of vocational education, initiates initiatives to adopt new or amend and supplement existing curricula, proposes measures and activities, the development strategy of vocational education, and gives a preliminary opinion on the adoption of a network and the appointment of regional competence centres, and can carry out other tasks in accordance with the appointment decisions. So this Council for Professional Education plays an important strategic role. Of course, this Law is only a basis, but it is a necessary basis for us to reform our vocational education which I have said is 70% of high school students in vocational education and unfortunately, where we also have the greatest disproportionateity between competences and occupations that arise as a result of vocational education and the needs we have on the labour market. With these changes and, in particular, by introducing these centres of competence, I am sure that we can improve these professions, improve the competences of our students, raise the quality of schools and thus make those schools that are vocational education schools and I am convinced that over the next two years we will completely change the system of vocational education and thus contribute to the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Here, so much in the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71656	Thank you. We have seven replicas. The first came from a respected colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71657	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor. We bring up the Law on Professional Education, which is largely based on the curricula on vocational education, so you all mentioned a whole series of curriculas, the curicula of each institution, the curricula of vocational education, and you also mentioned a national curricula that has not been adopted. The first question is very important, but the second question will be a little bit more important is why we didn't bring the national curricula first, and then go to these lower-order curriculas, but this is how we make small islands in the sea, so we're going to end up with that main curricula that, I think, is the wrong order. And the second question is very important. Why do you constantly ignore the review of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts? Last time I asked you a question, why don't you use the term "couricule," but you keep ignoring HAZU reviews and using the term "couriculum" and now in this debate? The answer was that that's what the law says. That's a nice excuse. And then why didn't you put the HAZU review in this bill now? Why in this proposal of the law we finally put the word out of the standard Croatian language, but using the used word side. So it's not a curicula, it's a curicula. Last time you said it was in the law. Today we pass the law, let's put it into the law of the curicula, not the curicula. Either you lied to me last time, or it's just a failure. I hope it is a failure, so that in the second reading we will have a corrected bill, i.e. that the Croatian word will be used in the new bill proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71658	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71659	Thank you very much. I would, however, concentrate here on the scale of this Law, meaning those important changes that I have listed, which are the changes that allow us, i.e. give us the necessary precondition for reforming vocational education. I use a term that is now in the existing Law on Professional Education and we have simply continued to use the same terminology, which is not only in this Law, but also in the Law on Education and Education, as well as in the national framework curricula that was adopted, which dates back to 2009. So I would first of all concentrate on the scale of this Law, which is the changes that allow us to introduce work-based learning, links to the Croatian qualification framework, clear definition of regional centres of competence and ensure the quality of institutions in vocational education as well as professional curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71660	Second replica, dear fellow Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71661	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. I looked at the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, item 2 says the government will introduce a model of dual vocational education in which employers become partners with educational institutions, and together decide on the programme and the registration quotas. Croatian dual education mode will be based on examples of best practice. And then he lists them: Germany, Austria, Switzerland. I, in your presentation, could not recognize that this is the key here to these proposed changes, although I think it should be the key to these changes because it depends on the progress of the Republic of Croatia. And the plan, the government programme is very clear there so my question is how if here, when we are discussing this law, we have not put emphasis on how this point of the Government of Croatia will be fulfilled which is still current and which says that a model of dual vocational education will be introduced and in German model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71662	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71663	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for this matter. So I said that this law is actually the basis that we can fully introduce different forms, meaning learning based on work and, among other things, the combined program or teaching or what we call dual education. And right now, the dual education model is just on these examples that you pointed out, meaning German, Austrian, Swiss in making and harmonising with different stakeholders. And I believe that through a month or two we will present this model, which we have the basis for in this law, and I thank you for the reminder, maybe I should have made that clearer in the opening part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71664	The third replica of the esteemed colleague of Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71665	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear minister. I am interested in your proposal for legislation today in the second reading whether the ministry did an accurate and accurate study of the existing situation when adopting such a bill. In the last proposal, I told you that we are familiar with those remarks that the CDFOB as a European agency, i.e. the German, put on the existing state of education in the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that somehow the bill ignores the education of teachers who need it. You said earlier in response to the replica that you were talking about the measure of things. So in preparation and for the debate that I will later have, it seems to me that the metrics were also a meeting of teachers, or head of vocational schools in Opatija recently. And in communication with them, they said they were quite dissatisfied with the equipment of classrooms of laboratories where students work in vocational schools, but also with the lack of sufficient number of licensed craftsmen in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia who are able to mentor students and existing vocational schools. You are also announcing in your presentation of the network of centres of competence, but at least it seems to me that this network of competence centres needs to be preceded and a established network of schools that is not as such as the state of the field to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71666	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71667	Thank you very much for asking. Of course, teaching teachers is a prerequisite for any kind of reform, including the reform of vocational education. It is also highlighted in this law, and especially in the Law on Education and Education. In this law, as a special activity of the Centre of Competence, it is stated that it carries out the professional training of teachers of professional subjects, co-workers in teaching, mentors in employers and other education experts. Therefore, through the centre of competence, it will also be working to train professionally, in the areas for which a particular centre is responsible and how it will be competent. So this teacher education is crucial and we'll work on it. Of course, we have made an analysis of the situation and that, in parallel with the preparation of this law in the ministry, the preparation of other documentation and the documentation necessary for the adoption of a network of competence centres that includes both current status and student numbers and different other parameters. A total of 80 parameters have been analysed to reach those of the most significant influences, meaning not only the network, but the sustainability of the competence centres once we bring them in. Unfortunately, what I have to say is that this one, so the situation in which we are now that the lab and the equipment in the schools is not enough is the result of a long period of time where school has not been invested or the school's equipment has not been invested. And we believe that over these billions of kunas mentioned for the centres of competence and their satellites we will invest in laboratories, and by introducing a model of learning based on work where we cooperate with the employer, we will also allow our students, in addition to the lessons provided for in school and employers, to significantly improve their professional competence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71668	The fourth replica, dear colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71669	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in your presentation, you mentioned some sort of quote, I'd just like to point out what's really important here. First of all, it's about a law that allows, and it's not enough times to repeat, a billion kunas for our children. A billion kunas that have been standing there since we entered the European Union, so four and more years. Four and over years, that's because we don't have this law. This law, in addition, will benefit those billions of kunas. Well, just what we heard here and in the debate and in the presentation of the Minister for improving the conditions of education, for the addition of institutions, or schools, centres of competence, that children do not learn on machines from 30 years ago, and today we know that new technologies have already improved far. What is the labour market looking for? Just learning based on what can give competitiveness on the market and our new workforce that enters the labour market and through combined practice programmes, that is, through this very dual education. I'll remind you that over the last 20 years, more than half the number of students in vocational schools has been cut. So, '98. There were 21,000, now there's something under 10,000. So, interest, it's not only the result of a poor demographic indicator, it's also the interest that after school because most of the people were not on these practices until now, but they were auxiliary workers, which means they actually got very little knowledge. They even had a new law in 2013 that prescribed to a good extent, and because it was a leap, I suppose, provided measures which could be from a craftsman who could have their practitioners, and then we had a drastic fall of those who passed the vocational exams. So, I think this is something that should have been done a long time ago and going in the right direction especially at these centres only competences is good that it will not be localised but throughout Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71670	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71671	Thank you very much. So this is certainly the law and reform of vocational education, an important demographic measure. And our intention is for the centres of competence to be evenly distributed throughout Croatia, also a demographic measure. It means that in each area, we allow each county to recognise its strategic development directions, to report on funds and to develop at least in this first period by 2020 one of these areas more significant, and thus to have roundings, exchanges of experience, links with employers, links with higher education, and thus enable quality education for all in Croatia, of course in accordance with these objectives written in this law and in the government reform package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71672	Thank you. We're going to the fifth line, dear colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71673	Mr. President. Hello to the minister with the associates. So as colleague Curray said, this law is worth a billion kuna, and that is why it is very important that we bring it in and apply it. What I particularly want to stress is the realisation of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology as well as the HKO and I will be convinced from the foundation if it is consistently applied to modifying our vocational education which required important changes because it has become unattractive, unattractive for children and has not been quality enough to base the competences that students have acquired to be good for our economy. Therefore, these changes in learning based on work are very important through three segments, as is said, combined, dual education, schools and professions, schools and practices and integrated education. I also welcome this division in five important areas, tourism, engineering and electrical engineering, information and communication technologies, agriculture and health, and I really expect that through the 21st centre of competence that will be deployed throughout Croatia, they will also have a connection with higher education, especially with universities that should also be developed in a better way and of course with the economy. What remains is one question that I want the minister to explain to us is whether the problem with HGK has been solved which in one way wanted to privatise the education sector in a way that I do not think is good and that there is also one discrepancies in view of their wishes and their aspirations towards some regional centres of competence that they wanted to form in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71674	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71675	Thank you very much. I certainly agree that this law is also a link to HKO which enables us to coordinate the needs of the labour market more clearly and methodologically with what we have in education programmes, training or study programmes. It is also clearly prescribed in the law that the centres of competence are actually schools and that is what we have insisted on and so provided for by this programme, the development programme of vocational education for the period 2016-2020. Schools are the ones to be declared the centres of competence, but it still needs to be made clear that those in their work programme must have links, contracts with employers, economic operators, and that this is what I am sure is also relevant to the HGK that there is a clearer integration with economic operators and employers, but that schools and those centres are competences.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71676	Thank you. The sixth replica of a respected colleague, Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71677	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honors Minister. We make laws that don't solve some crucial problems in society. I believe that school is primarily an educational institution. My colleagues talked about education, and I'll talk about responsible things. I think schools are a bit of a place for anarchy. I'm talking to the principals, teachers, teachers, and they're really having an extremely big problem with the students. So the school has to be an educational institution, and that's not exactly what we're doing with some law-making. And I'm going to talk now about the concrete proposals and the objections that my principals and schools are telling me. In fact, there are children who really learn all year round, and there are children who don't learn all year round and have the right to appeal at the end of the year. There is a school in Zagreb that has 70 complaints about grades. And now I'm telling you how thin the line between democracy and anarchy is, we know that in society. We have people here who can step on other people and don't end up in jail, there are those who cheat on the state, they don't end up in jail. And what's the message to our children? We can do anything. All we have to do is have a good lawyer. What's the message for education, for education? Can we also introduce a code of ethics for students to respect teachers, respect what they do and try to build society on another principle? I think the message we're giving the kids is entirely to blame. So school has to be educational and educational, and in that sense education may not have been so scheduled, but education definitely is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71678	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71679	Thank you very much. Of course, no law ever solves all problems, and this law is also based and related to the Law on Education and Education where clearly prescribed and educational goals must be set. However, I would point out here that with the amendments and additions to this law and the Law on Education and Education which is also in the process of change and complementarity. We want to change the paradigm and change the paradigm so that the school really becomes a place where students will gladly go, where they will be satisfied, where they will really gain competence for life and not just bug facts. And that's one of the reasons why this paradigm is changing too, so learning based on working in professional curricula is something that gives the student a sense of doing something useful, which is important to him for life and has that educational component. However, it should be taken into account that even in this law we wrote that, besides the competences that are for the profession, there are clearly expressed and key competences such as competences to acquire therefore personal social and professional needs which include and communication in the material language, in foreign languages, mathematical competence, digital competence, learn how to learn social and civic competence, initiative and entrepreneurship and culture and awareness of expression. So that part over the key competences we've also included here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71680	Thank you very much. The last replica is the esteemed representative of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I only have one question for you. If this proposal is an amendment to the Law on Professional Education, it is a document that needs to be reformed in some way by professional education as you have said. I ask you why in Article 9 of the Council on Professional Education, which numbers 20 members who will be appointed for a period of up to 5 years, you consider that they have what to say to the Croatian Association of Employers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, representatives of the union, representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Tourism, Agriculture and Labour, why do you feel that there is nothing about this topic of development, let's say the center, regional competences and the development of vocational education there is nothing to say, say the representative of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds? Isn't that a little illogical to you if we take into account that this is exactly the Council's strategic body, you give him enormous powers that will propose measures and activities and a strategy for the development of vocational education, while giving a preliminary opinion on the adoption of the network, appointments of regional centres etc., etc. I warned you about it in my first reading, and I really don't understand why we're looking at things this closely. The only explanation can be that this law is only adopted to save a billion kunas available to us by 2020. We are now in 2018 and we decided to quickly deploy these money to 21 centres of competence, only these five sectoral areas and we know that we have 14 sectoral councils. My question isn't malicious, it's really not malicious. Here's what I'm curious about is why you felt there was really nothing to say, one of the key ministries when we talk about both the use of EU funds and the regional development of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71682	Thank you for the response of the Honorable Minister Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71683	Thank you. So as you can see, the Council for Professional Education has 20 members and the Council's tasks are also clearly prescribed. Therefore, in that same article, where it is said that the Council for Professional Education is initiating initiatives to adopt new or amendments and supplement existing curriculas, it proposes measures and activities and a strategy for the development of vocational education and gives a preliminary opinion on the adoption of a network and the appointment of regional centres of competence, as well as on other matters in accordance with the appointment decisions. We have, of course, been involved with this whole meaning, the amendments and the additions of the law, and we have carried out the consent and asked for the opinion of the other ministries. And all those who have shown interest or have found their place in this definition have included all of them which, of course, does not cross over and will certainly be done so to invite representatives and other ministries who can contribute to the debate on a particular topic. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71684	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, will be spoken by respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers and associates. Our club will immediately say at the outset support this bill because we believe it brings certain improvements and that it really has some fundamental signs of improvement in vocational education. Professional skills and competences are as important as academics, a sentence from the European paper on vocational education. Let us oppose this public opinion in Croatia, for many years we have the situation that this public opinion in Croatia in vocational education is nowhere near this sentence in the European document. Over the years, we've been teaching kids that they should go to schools where they can go to colleges, that they need college education, and for many years, we're pushing vocational education into another plan, we're underestimating it, we're underestimating it, we're kind of telling kids that it's even a shame. And then today we have situations that we have that we don't generally have enrollment in professional professions, that we have unquality education and professional professions, that out of this education system come young people who are not ready to work, for the labour market, and that in the end we are sinking all that time and we are recently talking about imports of labour force, professional labour force in labour force import quotas, etc., and all of this is about this system of education and climate that was created in society according to vocational education, we have to add a little bit of course to the various policy decisions that have been made. I cannot look back on the period 2012-2015 when, in principle, great damage was done to vocational education because the dual system in which Ms. Minister spoke and in which there was a replica in this part of the opening presentation, where, in practice, some kind of opposition by the Minister of Labour, a small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, was made rather harmful moves towards vocational education, with everything that had happened before. These amendments to the Law, in the extreme case, even in the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which, therefore, primarily brings together people from vocational education, has positive shifts and, in particular, in this part of the qualification framework where we definitely have a disproportionate proportion of the labour market and of the professions for which children are educated and for those who are wanted, in the end, and even some of them are not even classified as having such. Article 14 of the amendment addresses major nebuloses present in the current Law, which relate to student practice and that the implementation of practices in one day no longer than 4 hours in a business-economic entity. Now imagine a builder who has a construction site, I don't know, 20, 30 km away from where the school is. He's taking five grade builders, driving them to the construction site, and he's got to get them back to school or home at 11.00 a.m. This Law makes it go away and it's as positive as it is in a part of the waiter's cookbook, meaning the catering profession where we had the same situation very concave that the student couldn't have been longer than 20 hours on the cook and waiter practice, but he could have sat in that same restaurant and in that same cafe as the guest. And that's a good move that's getting rid of this law. But I'm going to talk here a little bit about implementing practices not only in economic operators because in that part you're going to have to do a lot of work on this law. There will be a lot more need for major changes, not only of this Law but also of some other laws following. This law will not, of course, resolve it, and this should be the ultimate goal if we are to get to the really dual education where students will spend a significant part of their time, or half of their training time in practice in business entities or crafts, and half of their teaching. I'll talk about the practices, talk about the practice that's being conducted in vocational schools. I have neither been in the introduction of you, Madam Minister, nor in the Law have I noticed any indication that you will be working on education and further education, i.e. additional practical education primarily by those people who are the first to practice. So I'm going to talk here about practitioners of practice and professional staff in schools per class, per individual profession. Competence centers, great idea. In my opinion, more should have been included in it, that they too are actively involved in the preparation of the centre of competence of carrying out work, but this billion kuna itself, which is announced and put in place regionally throughout Croatia's competence centres, gives some hope that there will be improvement. But if we don't have people who know how to prepare students in these centres of competence and in those schools that won't be centres of competence, then we have a problem again. We can get a great car and a bad driver to drive it. I don't criticise or attack people are who are the leaders of practical classes in high schools, but I point to the problem that these people are not in many ways prepared for today's education system. If they weren't in trend, just like the programs offered to students and in the very names of modernization one, we have old-fashioned programs, old-fashioned names that refuse students to enroll. Today we have a situation so that we can organise it much better, do it and prepare it, but we need to prepare legislation for it and allow schools to modernise themselves in this very nominal part of certain professions and thus attract students to enroll in secondary vocational schools. Slovenians have a similar problem, they reportedly created a pilot project where the practitioners of practices and those teachers who conduct practice will send one part of the time in a year to business entities engaged in this activity, at their will in this pilot project, mean nothing by order or by any order, by their will, so that they can monitor what happens in their defence and then pass it on to the students. It may be a great path and direction, but not in a way that we punish these people, that we force them to be punished, but to stimulate them, to see the same of our leaders, to stimulate them in connection with economic operators, to find some models legally, some rules, provisions, which, in order for these people to get into direct work, into direct production, and then pass it on to the students. In this way, we would certainly get a certain improvement in the transfer of these knowledge that we have and are now old - fashioned. Why am I saying that? I'm saying that because like many others, I was a member of those former high schools at the time of Shuwar. And then I went into metal practice, like a lot of other practices at the time, and I was touring that queen hand-to-hand. Now, the problem is that even today the students are tournating that queen, so we haven't moved since the queen's tour. Today we tour this queen in vocational schools and expect to get a man who will be able to be in the work process tomorrow and be, therefore, ready to work immediately at least 70% of the expertise when he comes into work. Around the centre of competence, just one more thing, there are five areas that you ministers listed, I don't understand how the area of construction turned out, here I really don't understand, why there are no buildings in these five areas, the sector that has the most problems with professional interests, which is the most demanding import of labour, we don't have in the centres of competence in the area of construction. Did it turn out to be a mistake, if there was any awkwardness, if there was any reason why it turned out, here's the answer to that question, because I think we made a mistake here. Why am I mentioning the building? The Croatian Democratic Party has long advocated minimum salaries, i.e. the lowest basic salary of 4000 kuna. The other day I attended and witnessed a wonderful event, the Croatian Association of Employers, the construction sector and the city union in construction, signed a collective contract on basic salary in the construction of 3750 kuna. Therefore, in construction, no one will be able to obtain with the lowest description of jobs less than EUR 3750, it is being upgraded, meaning the complexity of jobs, qualifications, expertise etc. So we've come to that goal here, the employers and the unions themselves. That is why I said that many more laws will be needed to change and improve if we are to achieve success by this law, if we want to get the children of the vocational school to be enrolled and if we want these vocational schools to be out of the education process sent to people who are able and willing to work. There is no greater stimulant and incentive to enroll in a school than a secure job and a solid salary. If we want our kids to enroll in high school, then we have to work it out. It's one of the models and the demographics that you ministers were talking about, so we really get one situation, that this occupation is starting to be appreciated, that it's beginning to be respected that it's what the students want to go to. So modernising the programmes, modernising the names, going to raise wages, probably this guideline made by constructionists in the Republic of Croatia and employers and trade unions, could be a good guideline for other border unions and other associations, for other border sectors in the Croatian employers' association, to make such a thing and thus contribute to an even better entry of children. As for yet more centres of competence, I hope and call for quality criteria, quality rules, quality points, that it does not happen to us, that because of the various political pressures and interests that will naturally be because it is a billion kuna, which should be deployed by every mayor, the mayor, wants to go to his town, if he has a high school, get a centre of competence and edit certain practices. Let's make a clear model, a very clear rulebook, points, where these centers are most needed, where they have the best conditions and put the first round of that money right there and get out of these centres of competence, after that, really the best people who will be able to get into the labour market. If there are no clear criteria, I'm not sure that we're going to achieve the right goal, because we have such examples from practice, a series that they've been, when various objects have been built, lobbying, of course, and what else, and we haven't seen what's going on in 5, 6 years, 10 years, so today we might have schools that are built somewhere that don't even have children anymore, we have sports halls, somewhere where there may be no children anymore, and we have a environment where there are children and we don't have such objects. Let it not happen to us now in this part, let it be a transparent way of preparing and implementing this project, to the satisfaction of all, especially those who will be educated by both these parents and employers where they will work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71686	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have stated from 2012-2015 that an immeasurable damage to the professional education of the Republic of Croatia has been done. Well, I would just like to inform you, if you are not informed enough, if you have made this statement out of ignorance, that, during this period, a crucial document for the development of education in the Republic of Croatia was adopted, which is a strategy of science, education and technology, among other things, the representatives of your party in the Croatian Parliament, supported the same. Secondly in the same period, the plan was to develop vocational education and training, which is actually the basis for what we are talking about today, thirdly, operational programmes for the financial perspective were created by 2020, which created preconditions, among other things, for the withdrawal of these billions of kunas for investing in vocational education in the Republic of Croatia. If you have made this statement just for the reason that you have been revolutionized by the amendments to the then Law on crafts where we have in some way called it so important and the influence of the Croatian Chamber of crafts on vocational education where we have insisted on having certain rights to take greater responsibility, then your understanding unfortunately of education policy and the development of vocational education is very superficial and guided in this statement only by partial interests which is not good at all. Professional education as a partnership of education, crafts and economy, but never dominated one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71688	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71689	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I didn't accidentally say this, nor did I say it unargumentedly, nor did I just say my opinion. I said the opinion of people in vocational schools, I said the opinion of craftsmen, I said the opinion of small entrepreneurs. So that's their opinion, their attitude. If you consider all these documents that were brought ok. Probably a part of them that even part of what you said yourself is bound to what is now being brought, what is being said. But in the implementation of the then minister, he was more concerned with breaking up chambers than with what he was supposed to do. And in that part, there was a separation of the private sector of entrepreneurship from vocational education. Today we are talking about having to absolutely connect entrepreneurs and education in vocational education, that children must spend at least half of their schooling time in this process in this practice in these entrepreneurs or those craftsmen themselves. The trend at the time, in the opinion of the people who are really not in it, is not like that, and I am absolutely standing in that position if you are not in a clear position to consult with people who were directly in the process, so they will certainly know very well what was done, which they did not. And it's a shame that you obviously didn't understand it, so that's why you went that way. That was the problem, but here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71690	Thank you very much. Before continuing, we welcome the topic in the gallery of students of the Electrical and Economic School from Nova Gradiška. And now we will continue with the replicas. [[Applause.]] The next is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, I would refer to that part of your exposure that you were talking about the atmosphere that is very important. So about the atmosphere related to the social value of vocational education in Croatia. In fact, we are aware of the fact that this law represents, among other things, and should be, the basis and basis for modernising vocational education above all, and then strengthening its quality and what is very important in linking to the labour market and achieving the purpose of vocational education, which I think is a very important element. And all of this in order to really succeed and achieve, I think it's very important that what you said and said is very important to take care of the relationship of society to professional professions and in general, and I would say that it's very important to actually work on ensuring that all the conditions for the modernisation of vocational education go to me, I would even call it removing the Stigm from professional professions as professions that are less valuable, less important, underpaid, etc. And it seems to me that we will have to and it will really be necessary to work intensively to popularize professional professions, to attract students to vocational schools, and in a way that professional professions want to enroll, to be attractive because they will learn to work through programs first of all. Then enable them to work, and at the end of all this, the most important way to make it possible for them to live decently and to ensure their own existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71692	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71693	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So there's no dilemma for me personally. That kid, that young man who finishes some vocational education, he has his bread in his hands, he knows how to do something. He who finishes high school must go further, he must go to school. In the end, we end up with a good part of these young people going to colleges, not finishing colleges or finishing them, and eventually returning to certain professional professions as trained, so with some schooling with the Employment Service or someone else. And that's why you're absolutely right that we have to do this, but we have to do something else, I haven't even been able to say it. In fact, we must enable these young people who go into vocational education to be a certain flow. You have three - year - old schools and now, for example, that the student who showed up at that three - year - old school would like to move on. He must pass the difference in exams in order to enroll the fourth class from 20 to 28 different exams. I'm asking everyone a question. Are we normal? Are we normal people? I mean, really, when I experienced it, I say it again in the building, when the students were state-owned building champions, state-run competition champions. Afterwards, such a young man wants to see it go on, wants to move on. He has to pass 20 and one-four different exams so he can enroll in the 4th grade and he's a state champion for God. And what are we doing? So let's stimulate that too. It absolutely needs to be stimulated, because these professional professions carry added value, so there's almost a man at 18. And after that, if he goes to some high school and college, he's a double-done man.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71694	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague of HRg you have well concluded that, in recent times, there has been an immeasurable damage to vocational education. I would say that unusable personnel were produced, non-model personnel, nor in knowledge, nor in technological progress achieved anything because they neither had enough modern equipment to teach their professional professions, nor had educated teachers who theoretically bifling the same thing, and children could not understand what they were saying because it was an outdated technology, an outdated way of treating them. For example, in the wood industry, in the construction industry, engineering in all these professions is produced unusable personnel and this is the biggest damage that has been done. There are strategies, plans, and everything that has been done in writing when in practice is inapplicable. Inapplicable are things that are not used on the market from practical workshops. They don't know anything, they're not even for a screwdriver to hold, let alone toss in your hand like you said. And they have to pass that segment to feel that there has been something in the manifestures of past times, so that they can compare today with the greatest technological achievements when laser processes of cutting iron and other things that are very familiar on the market today. Therefore, we need to make additional efforts to support in the perfection of the law in vocational education, especially the missing personnel, which I don't know 35,000, we have permission to import workers from other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71696	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71697	Absolutely correct. So a few things need to be found and done so that some of this could be expected. We have already left several generations of semi-destruction in the extreme case, where these young people, when they come out they are aware that they are not ready to work, they are aware that the system did not give them what they expected to give them, they are aware that they can't come for a machine and at the same time start working. The honor of exceptions, surely there are in Croatia and schools and directions that do their job well, which they have managed, but you know what the system is best adapted to the system so you slowly swim, there are no distractions. There's another big problem here, we today schools are setting registration quotas according to the existing staff they have. The labour market is changing, nobody can predict it, we're in a capitalist system, private property, private entrepreneurship, so it's almost impossible to predict something like that. And today we keep writing down, writing down, entering people and profiles that won't be able to continue to be hired, which will have to be requalified immediately after schooling. For God's sake, it really wasn't the time to start thinking about it normally, to start working on it normally. And what you said, absolutely, and that's why it's good with these centres of competence to move, it's a great thing because having schools of the same profile 15, 20km away and doing each other competition, and nobody's fully equipped for it is crazy. Let's get a location. I even once suggested that in the same districts in each secondary vocational school, one of the two professions that will be fully equipped to enable children to be in a better and better quality education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71698	Thank you. Now we can continue the discussion of the wheel. And the next Club of Representatives is that of the HNS Liberated Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Maria Puh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71700	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honourable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I would say that today we are really discussing an extremely important law concerning 70% of our students who are involved in high school education. And it is definitely one of the most important topics that we would have to agree on, which we would really have to have a consensus on because ultimately it is about the future of our children, the future of Croatia and future workers on our labour market. Here's why this law is extremely important and what is being made possible by it? It is therefore possible to develop national curriculas for vocational education, sectoral curricula, professional curricula and curricula for vocational education institutions and they will allow flexibility and autonomy of educational institutions in the choice, content and method of working for students and enable the acquisition of competences adapted to their professional and personal development, economy and local communities. It enables the establishment of regional competence centres, strengthens what is extremely important, work-based learning, enables the establishment of a better system of quality assurance and system building that will enable lifelong learning and mobility. The latest amendments to this law were in 2009 which, looking at the very topic and the development of technology and science were quite far away. And I think it's really high time for us to have vocational schools in the future and to give our children education according to that. I am extremely pleased and is extremely important that this law places a special focus on learning based on work, means that students have opportunities on them and today’s age by appropriate techniques and appropriate methods of learning. So when they come out of high school that they're finished and complete workers, and not like now, employers have to in some way continue to educate over the years, two of their workers who will then be able to do them well. I also believe that the learners will increase their work-based ability to self-employment so that students themselves will be able to have their own trades or their own companies at the end of their professional profession and will remain in the Republic of Croatia. What I particularly want to point out and what is especially looking forward to is the centres of competence, now will finally put a billion kunas at our schools, directly to our children and will invest in them, will be invested in high quality infrastructure, in the excellence of teachers, mentors who will work with these children. At the very centres of competence, I think it will be necessary for these centres to work particularly well with the public sector, with entrepreneurs, and therefore with the local self-government unit. I used to hear in the debates and in people's conversations that the centres of competence would be possible after some time as the law says that after 5 years they had to go to a revolution, that after that school would be abolished. It certainly won't be and it's not a situation, this school, if for some reason the centres of competence will no longer have quality and will not be intended, schools will remain. So competence centres are just one upgrade to schools that should be connected and local self-government units, which should connect employers and schools, and thus allow regional integration of the same schools. So those schools that will be declared competence centres will not only have the opportunity to use money for equipment and technology but other schools from that region will also be able to connect with these schools declared to the centres of competence and also to withdraw funds for equipment and their cabinets and also to enable 21st century infrastructure and knowledge and technology worthy of the 21st century. It is also related to competence centres, the goal is to increase the quality and in some ways the attractiveness of schools. Schools will be able to do what I think is particularly good, determine in some way to be more specific than other schools of the same direction, and in some ways there will be a positive competition between schools that will be more attractive to students, so the students will decide for themselves I want to do it someday in life, so let's go now to this school, yet it gives me more opportunities, more knowledge and more practice for the work that I want to have. I know from the experience of passing certain exams, well, there may be master exams that are included in the other law, but I had experience when one person took a master's exam for the cook and then there was a whole education and the whole education was on the theory, the person walked a week and I didn't know how many times in the lectures, it was all theoretical lectures, the master's exam came behind it, and on the master's exam was supposed to be made out of menus, of cooking only food, of making normative and all that generally in that theoretical work was not so imagined, so that learning based on work not only in secondary vocational schools but definitely should be carried out through life education when passing master's exams and other mentor tests. I think that in general some presentation of how much learning is important that someone who learns to be a waiter will not be able to learn how to hold a tray and reflect balance by looking at the presentation or by reading in a textbook that says that in this way it is true but when it comes to practice, when it will be at the centre of competence or at the employer, and when it will be really involved in the work, then it will be able to acquire the right competences and then be a top worker to its future employer. So I once again invite you all to a consensus on this law is about the education of 70% of children, 70% of children in vocational education, and I think it's high time for our students to be ready for the labour market, that employers of the age of workers who will be ready to work, who will not need further training, and also that self-employment can be significantly higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71701	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71702	Dear colleague Puh, our minister, Vice President of the Parliament. Here's what I'm going to ask you is the same question that I asked the minister, and the minister answered that it doesn't matter how it's written, it matters what it says. It doesn't matter if it's written in Croatian but whether it's about the metrics or the content. Well, I'm interested in your opinion, do you agree that it doesn't matter how it's written, is it in Croatian or in some other language, or is it important to write in Croatian? Or what do you think of the name of curicula, which is the Croatian name and curiculum, which is not a Croatian name?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71703	The answer of the esteemed MP Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71704	Dear colleague Zekanovic, here I would like to invite you back to what we are discussing, which is the Law on Professional Education and to return to work-based education because this is what will be important to our students and future workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71705	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71706	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, fellow Puh, you've said nicely what you should actually be, that when our students finish vocational schools should come out ready to work with knowledge, like little masters who should know their own tasks. But I'm asking you how? Our primary schools are no longer the filter they were. Today come students, especially professional professions who don't even know the multiplication table, who are simply missed through elementary school regardless of which type of high school will be enrolled, which are only missed to finish primary school so that teachers don't bother with them. And then when they get to high school, they have a problem with the curriculum and what they need to learn and do. Then, when such teachers come to high schools where we have fewer and fewer students, as well as in basics, because one of the great reasons is that a lot of people have gone from the Republic, somewhere around 300 thousand, have small classes, a small number of classes, and then they simply bring down the threshold of knowledge that students should achieve and satisfy, in order to get to what you claimed to be ready for work. I'm afraid that, regardless of the law, they will come more and more unprepared because I think we've brought down that filtering threshold where we let students go without basic knowledge. I know that from personal experience because I see, I have high school students, how badly they're taught in elementary school, that they just don't follow what's happening today. Today we have a lot of excellent students in elementary schools, and then there are unfair conditions for enrolment, and then when you get to high school you are essentially seeing what a big difference there is, and then that threshold will not lead to what you said should be prepared and quality workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71707	Thank you. Answering the respect of MP Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71708	I thank my colleague. Well, I know there are similar cases as you yourself. Quality is extremely important. And quality will be particularly highlighted through the centres of competence that will be established and I believe that then in such schools that will be more interesting to them that students will also show greater interest, that their attention will be much easier and much better and that only that education will be much better. Unfortunately, we bear witness, see for ourselves, and violence among the disciples lately. I would say, it's not just about education, but it's partly about education that should start long before kindergarten, then kindergarten and elementary school, but I definitely think that the centres of competence will one day be something that will be prestigious and where students will work and have the will and desire and then be more motivated in those schools because they will work on the technology that is now modern. Recently, when I went to high school in my county, we were at a school in real labs, which look great. They've got equipment. It's a building. They have equipment, they have machines, they have all the latest testing techniques, and you can see exactly how much they are motivated and how much they enjoy what they learn. So, the goal is to make all our schools more motivated by the means available to us, because if schools are going to be more modern, the students will be more motivated, and I believe that we will eventually get better workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71709	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71710	Thank you, Vice President. I would take this opportunity, of course, to replicate to my colleague Puh absolutely and to relate myself to the very measure of this law. I think that whatever our students call what they're learning is more important to them to learn and to come out with certain knowledge, and to know that knowledge only recognizes the labour market. I mentioned it earlier. We have a situation today that on the labour market, especially if we look at maybe in the catering craft or as we speak in the chefs, say when you start a restaurant take them directly to high school, so that you can teach them. Because if you take someone who has two, three, four, five years of experience, then it's gonna be really hard to fix some wrong waters. What does that tell us about the system? Yes, apparently, those who go out do not have enough knowledge and that they count already in advance that they will have to train them according to their standard. This may not be unusual in world practice, but we must produce labour. So when I mentioned 21 thousand enrolled early in the school year 20 years ago, now less than 10 thousand students. Not in total, but in one year. So why? They spoke to colleagues, we with this Law, the point of this is that our students get knowledge, skills, that they are immediately competitive and competent for the labour market. Because today on the labour market for a qualified chef, top-notch and top-notch receipts. And we need those to get out of school right away. Not just in that part, but in all the professional programs. So here we want to modernise and produce labor not for the 20th century but for the 21st century. And that is the meaning of all of this and the future not only of the professional, but of the general economy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71711	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed MP Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71712	I'd like to thank my colleague Curaj. Well, that's all on the trail and all my debates and all my speech. So, what's important is we really need schools for knowledge, not schools for grades, and we need basic learning, especially in vocational schools. By doing so, we will allow employers better workers. I also know in my county, the same case as you, so there is a lack of labour, while at the same time some high school students go to the stock market and can't find a job, so we definitely need to find one agreement between employers, school units of local self-government, to make a closed effective circle that will be on the well-being of the students themselves and behind that employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71713	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next club of representatives, and that's the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sokol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71714	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs. The system of vocational education is crucial for the development of human potential, as we have heard many times today, as a prerequisite for achieving economic growth, better employment and social objectives. This system of vocational education and education includes more than 70% of the total secondary population, which is often forgotten, which clearly results in the importance of this area for the education system as well as economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. The importance of vocational education is particularly visible in the most developed countries of the world, such as Austria, Germany and Switzerland, which have a low unemployment rate, precisely because young people have been focusing on sectors for which there is a need in the labour market. Therefore, these countries are an example and consistency of the economy with the labour market. It is primarily due to the centuries-old tradition of practical education, which implies that 70% of the students continue in real form, means through practice and only 30% within educational institutions. In that sense, I think that we should certainly strive to do so and that without strong cooperation between education institutions and the economy, including sectoral chambers, we will hardly be able to achieve this goal that I am talking about here. And in that sense, I would rather not talk about some kind of privatisation attempt or similar to what we heard today, rather than just having that cooperation strengthened. And of course, about the modes, and cooperation, we can discuss what are the best ways, etc. The process of modernisation and reform of vocational education began to take place in the Republic of Croatia in 2008-2013. So it's a process that actually takes place in 2006 by gradually building capacity, resources, preparing documents in line with EU recommendations through the Copenhagen process. After the development strategy, the Law on Professional Education was also adopted, setting up a strategic legal framework for the development of vocational education in the Republic of Croatia in line with EU-level policies and processes. The key aspect here is the acquisition of competence, as has been said many times, and what we all agree on, which is needed by the labour market, with the aim of professional recognition of qualifications. Based on this Law on Professional Education, a whole series of measures has been taken to modernise and strengthen the quality of vocational education and training in the Republic of Croatia. This is important, so it is important to stress that it is one process that has been going on for many years and that this law is just another step in this development that has lasted so far. So there is certainly one continuity there, but of course always reforms can go faster, we all agree. As already said in this law, the development of national curricula for vocational education, sectoral curricula and professional curricula is possible. So, I'm not going to go into the details of this part, it's been talked about more than once, so some language dilemmas, but what I'd like to point out is that it's a system that's still quite new in our education system and that it certainly needs to be emphasized that it won't be in an effective way without the changes announced by the Law on Raising and Education of Primary and High Schools. Which also learns the concept of curiculum, but which is now much more elaborated on all levels and I think that's what we need. So we have the entire pyramid of the law and we have it systematically solved, so not only through this law, but also through this fundamental law of the education system. Furthermore, what is certainly important and this is the main topic, which is the most talked about is the establishment of regional competence centres. So the core features of the centre as defined by the law, innovative teaching methods, innovative learning models, learning based on work for more effective inclusion of labour market participants, respecting the needs of students with difficulties and other vulnerable groups, allow for vertical transit to continue education, the excellence of teachers, high-quality infrastructures constructive and creative cooperation with social partners and the public sector, economic operators, higher universities and other interested institutions. So that's important, that there's this synergy between all the stakeholders of the system, which includes high schools and again economic operators, and the chambers that are mentioned here in some negative context, I don't understand, I have to admit why. An operational programme of effective human potentials 2014-2020, which is in fact a fundamental document for withdrawing money from the European Social Fund, the Republic of Croatia in the thematic objective of investing in education, training, vocational skills training and lifelong learning, sets priorities in order to approach the reform of the existing system of vocational education. In this context, Croatia plans to implement and this is one of the main reasons why this law is passed, related to the establishment of national, regional competence centres, initially, in sectoral areas of tourism and hospitality, engineering, electrical engineering, information and communication technologies, agriculture and health. So that's what needs to be welcomed, and this law is very important here, to create a legal basis for withdrawing those funds. But what I would point out, too, is often mentioned that billion kuna, of course, that sounds very good and it is certainly a very significant amount for our system, however, it will not solve all the problems. So if we take each county will have one centre of competence, which is actually the concept that goes there, it's actually 50 million kuna per center. Now, if we consider that it means building or rebuilding, equipment, teacher education, employment, etc. And given that these competence centers should be really top of the top, that is their goal and idea, to be top-notch technologically equipped, adapted to new technologies, of course, that amount is not as large as it might seem at first sight. What am I saying? I would like to say that what will certainly be important about what the whole process will depend on, that is, the success of the whole process, which is to ensure long-term sustainability, means the long-term financial sustainability of this concept. So, as we know and in order to even withdraw money from European funds, you have to actually get confirmation that once this system is made and that money is spent further, in the long term financially sustainable. And that's one of the most important things because the European Commission has often been burned by investing in some white elephants, which they would say, which were then standing empty. And it is certainly important to strengthen then and fiscal capacity and county, as founders who are primarily responsible for further long-term financing and sustainability of the entire system of competence centres and this is something that should certainly be seen beyond the context of this law, but rather a broader story, which concerns only the functioning and financing of regional self-government. The third aspect after the very centres of competence concerns learning based on work. It is defined as acquiring knowledge and skills by participating in activities in the working environment. It is present in three forms in professional curricula as a combined programme or teaching at school with periods in employers and in an integrated programme of vocational education and training. The importance of work-based learning in vocational education is recognised, as the proposed law defines the concept of work-based learning for the first time and should certainly be welcomed. What is important is that it is implemented in cooperation with the institution for the vocational education of economic operators, and that there are ways to implement work-based learning. In this sense, one very important question is the mentor's question, meaning the question of persons who will mentor these students especially in this practical part of the course, means how they train themselves, the passing of any exams, etc. And I think it's something that needs to also be solved systematically at the level of actually the entire system. What's certainly important here is that you need to see through the legal form to define it, in which best way. The fact is, I think there's a reason to mention the Law on crafts, but the Law on crafts still doesn't cover all economic operators. There are companies d.o.o. etc. And you really should think carefully about what the best way to define the role of mentor, the way they train, passing exams, etc. Here's the short part about the law itself. So we certainly support him. We think it's a big step forward. However, the HDZ Club will also propose one amendment, meaning that it is an amendment supplementing the Council for Professional Education in a way that includes the founders' representatives, i.e. the county, in its composition. So that's what I said on the trail, which is that the role of the county as founder and in the financing and functioning of the centres of competence is very important, as well as professional education and vocational schools themselves. Now, since the council is launching initiatives for new curricula, it is changing existing curricula, we propose measures and strategies for vocational education that representatives of founders or counties should be involved in its work. What we're accomplishing, and what you mentioned here in the debate, is that we're dealing with this problem not by a number of members who are never good at making decisions. So then the number would increase, council members would increase from 20 to 21. Respecting the fact that certain provisions of the final bill are given to the founders a great obligation and responsibility in achieving the activities of vocational education and, of course, through funding, we consider their involvement in the work of the council to be necessary. This means especially because it is exactly harmonising the work of all stakeholders in the field of vocational education, and proposing measures of activity and development strategies. So we think it's very important. As for the potential conflict of interest that could be talked about with the adoption of a network of centres of competence, given that it is foreseen how much I have realized from everything that each county has its own centre of competence, then I don't think there would be any problem in terms of conflict of interest that it would some, that a representative of the county in the council would advocate that it would get the centre of competence, and not some other. So I think in this context where they are distributed evenly throughout Croatia, I don't think there is any danger. And since we've already said their great responsibilities and for this long-term sustainability it's certainly important that they be involved, so here we go. But here is another detail, of course, as one improvement in the proposal itself, of course, that the HDZ Club supports this bill and considers it a step forward for our vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71715	Thank you very much. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. He is the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71716	Dear fellow Sokol, here I have heard that you will, or the HDZ Club will give one amendment. Of course I'll support that amendment, too. I am interested in your position on another amendment which I will personally give regarding the application of the standard Croatian language in this law to use the Croatian word curicula instead of putting the word curicula. Here I am interested in your opinion and whether it is only a metric matter or still necessary in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian laws use Croatian language. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71717	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71718	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, first of all, I'm not a linguist, so I don't understand myself so much, maybe in some language finesse. I mean, the word "couricule" itself is not originally a Croatian word. It was also created on that Latin template, and the curricula is its original version. So, personally, I wouldn't go into the subject of whether something is right or wrong in that particular case. I think it should be decided by experts, but certainly Croatian should be spoken in the Croatian Parliament. I think it's prescribed by both the Constitution and the laws, etc. I don't think there's any dilemma, nor should there be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71719	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71720	Dear colleague, you mentioned a process that has been going on since 2006, and you mentioned all the changes that have been going on until today. I personally think that if this process has already started as you said in 2006 and we are aware that it is, in 2018, that it has been a little more years, and that we are now discussing one law that we are going to support in any case, because it is exactly what you have said is a legal basis for attracting funds. I answered the replica for a reason, and later on, in your discussion, you mentioned what would happen and who would bear a later burden of funding on the ground in the sense of regional centres, so the burden of financing a large part of it, and then again to the county, and therefore to the units of local self-government. This is what I am saying, among other things, because all those years since 2006, who has met with these particular problems related to vocational education and the labour market in our field, we are aware that our education system has not generated enough labour required by the current needs of the economy in our area, so we have witnessed that individual companies and I can personally testify to this in our area within their production plants have organised areas where they have trained themselves, self-initiative people who have employed to carry out jobs in accordance with their technological processes of work. If we are going to debate and change gradually and last for years, and we are going to pass the law in one part only to extract a certain amount of resources at our disposal, I think we are not exactly on the road in that sense of the ultimate goal of getting enough professional labour market, enough educated young people who will be able to take on certain specific knowledge in the technological process of work available.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71721	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Sokol will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71722	Thank you very much. So the fact is that our education system, and especially this part of the vocational education that is directly related to the labour market, is not in line with it in the right way. There are many reasons for this, perhaps from this mentality part that we mentioned that it is simply not so attractive for people to go to vocational schools, but one problem is the non-compliance of a network of vocational schools with real needs. And that's the part where we certainly as a state need to be much more flexible, much faster, much stronger to act that we don't have a situation where we have some interests that are no longer needed, that time has run over, and that for some other professions we simply lack personnel and schools and are simply not foreseen in the network. What you've just well detected is that it's in that part of it that's important to connect with companies, to economic operators. It is they who through this practical work, teaching and through their feetbeck and through institutions about what is necessary that we can improve the system only through this. And that is why it is not good to be afraid of economic operators in some way that we have heard in some discussions on the other side of the assembly, they will privatise something etc., I think it is in our interest that these students get as much training as possible, to be more adapted to the real needs of the market, markets that are constantly changing. So they're saying that 70% of the jobs that the current students who enrolled in the first grade still don't exist. So that's exactly where we can't sort out some kind of administrative measure like that, but that's exactly why we need this interaction with the economy. And that's why I think it's good and that through the parliamentary debate, we're changing that attitude towards the economy from that there are some mechanics who want something for private interests and that we realize that the interest of the economy is ultimately of the state interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71723	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sokol, in one part, I can understand your suggestion that representatives of the founders enter the Council, although on the other hand he seems rather illogical. If it's just a matter of financial sustainability and control of some of the obligations that the government or the ministry would assume today, and tomorrow they have to take over the founders, then I don't think this is a council where these problems are solved. Secondly, we have already at the debate in the first reading of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture warned that it may not be wise for the Network of Regional Centres of Competence to bring only the Ministry, if we know that the network of schools is brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that there may be some possible, I will not say overlapping, but to some two levels which may not be exactly the most consistent. Third, these founders at this point have enormous powers that unfortunately do not benefit. So they're the ones who name representatives in the board of schools, and thus indirectly have the possibility of hiring, choosing the principal. Third, the entry policy plan according to the recommendations of the Croatian Employment Service, deficits, surpluses in line with regional county policies, third in the planning of a network of schools. Do you think that so far the founders have used enough of all the powers they have to use to influence the development of education policy in their regions, if you want the counties, and if we were to come into these situations that we have today, I don't know that we have 290,000 unemployed, and on the other hand, the government has to prescribe a quota to introduce 30,000 foreign labour forces, especially in the agriculture and tourism sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71725	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Sokol will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71726	Thank you very much. Well, yes, of course we have 20 counties plus the City of Zagreb, there are different practices, somewhere more focused on vocational education, somewhere less, it's certainly clear. But what I don't think is a good way to go and how it comes out of what you said was that all the problems in the system are being transferred to the county. I think the counties are a small part of the problem, that the greater the problem is the rigidity and inflexible of the entire system. Here I think I know while I was at the ministry I know how difficult it was to approve some additional registration quotas for some schools, their changes, etc., I know that just the initiative from the field and county has come to change that. I know it was very difficult and very difficult and very complicated to do. So I think the county has all kinds of, in this way I think they'll just be encouraged to act, but the problems of the general system are much deeper, much wider than whether some county was active enough or not. I think what seems particularly to me to me lately is that the counties have become much more active in the part of planning their policies in part of planning and in order to withdraw funds from European funds and I think it is a good trend and I think that just through engaging in the Council for Professional Education we can further encourage them to continue in that direction that is quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71727	Thank you. And the last replicas of the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sokol, I would just a little bit have the need here to add two, three words regarding the Council's position on vocational education, or to put into the membership of the council of founders. First of all, it's the 21st member because it's unusual that some council that's being put into some kind of situation that has to discuss anything and then eventually vote to have an even number of members, and then it creates difficulties. And it's good to see it, so the amendment can be fixed and I think it's okay. Why is it that a representative of the founders in this council and why I at least think and support this opinion on which you are also on whose trail not to ask the question of the interest of the founders' representatives in the council, above all if we look at the formulation of Article 9(3) which describes the Council's tasks and what the Council is doing, says that among other things it is launching initiatives for the adoption of new or amendments and complementing existing curriculas, it proposes measures to take part in the development of vocational education strategy, so I think it is important that the representatives of the founders be represented here. In addition, here on the network of future centres and conflicts of interest in this regard, the Council gives its preliminary opinion, so the Council does not decide what the network will ultimately look like, gives a preliminary opinion. What is the strength of the previous opinion? It doesn't ultimately decide, in the final document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71729	The Honorable Representative Sokol will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71730	Thank you very much. Well, yes, I agree with you. First, it gives a preliminary opinion, it's under a. Sub b, it's about one article of 21, which can hardly have itself a dominant influence. C, if we look at this logic of conflict of interest that everything can be a conflict of interest, then some other members of that logic could be more in conflict of interest than representatives of the county, so I just think that the argument simply doesn't make any sense. And as for the very role of the county, what I said, we needed to change that logic, to have someone come somewhere, somewhere on a cloud and now say, I know everything about everything, and now I'm going to define policies in all sectors. You're going to have this, you're going to have that, some average is absoluteism. I mean, it doesn't work like that today. We are exactly what we are missing in Croatia and what is now changing is that we have this bottoma up approach, where we first get information and proposals from the field and through this we know exactly what practice is, who has problems, what demands, etc., and then, accordingly, they create national policies, and not vice versa, and I just think it's a good approach and I think it should continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71731	Thank you. We're going to the next club of MPs, which is that of IDS, PGS and LRI, in the name of which the respected representative Tulio Demetlika will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71732	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister Divjak with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Education, I would like to point out that for many years there has been a discrepancy between the needs of the economy and the education system in Croatia, resulting in a significant improvement in our education system as a whole. But as usual, we're late. At the IDS, PGS and LRI, we believe that the proposed law represents a certain shift towards improving the system of vocational education, although a whole set of measures should be implemented for more significant outcomes in the field of education. This is where we come to so many times mentioned curricula reforms whose component should also be the national curricula for vocational education. The reform was already to be implemented as a whole, meaning in all segments of the education system not only in the work relating to vocational education. This is necessary for our children to get a quality framework for education but also an incentive for the development of a modern and tolerated society. Therefore, at the IDS, PGS and LRI, we expect a complete curricula reform that will cover all segments of the education system in the Republic of Croatia to be implemented as soon as possible. As far as vocational education is concerned, I would like to stress that vocational education is a significant factor in the development of society primarily in the development of the economy. Today, 60% of the students were enrolled in vocational schools and at times there were 70%. Most of it, 2/3 are enrolled in four years of education and others in three years of education. That information itself speaks enough about attention that must be devoted to vocational education. However, in terms of vocational education, there have been negative social trends for a long time. First of all, I think of the general social underestimation of professional education and professional professions in Croatia as well as the general lack of interest of young people in professional professions. Unfortunately, prejudices to professional professions are present, so it is necessary to raise awareness of the importance of professional professions and to stress the importance of teaching. Compared to 2008, the number of those enrolled in the single education model programmes was reduced by as much as 14,000 and fell from 24,000 to 10,000. The existing system does not work, almost 2/3 of professions have a decline in enrolment of over 50%. This has led to serious labour market disturbances. Interests that record the biggest decline are the ones for which the greatest demand exists. We are witnessing tourism, construction, metallurgy, all craftsmanship. We are witnessing that from year to year the growing number of young people sees their future in professional professions and those who finish a certain degree of vocational education do not end well at work for which they have been educated or see their future abroad where salaries for quality vocational education are far higher than in Croatia. As a result, as well as the negative demographic movements, of course, each year we face the growing demands of employers for the import of labour force. It is our duty, as representatives here in the Parliament, to constantly warn that these problems and to encourage the government to push as hard as possible for such a situation to change because this depends on the economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia in the years to come. We at the IDS, PGS and LRI are aware that many years of negative trends in vocational education and youth interests cannot be reversed overnight and that a whole series of activities should be implemented to address these problems. But then the state, and first of all, I think of the executive power available to the mechanisms through which it can act, must be aware that it needs to start working as soon as possible. From taking an interest in young people in vocational education and professional professions. Since the state further reduces taxes and imposes on craftsmen and entrepreneurs in order to increase wages on workers and thus retain them in the Republic of Croatia. In 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia approved that we import 31 thousand foreign workers, although we have 200 thousand unemployed at the Employment Office. At the same time, 50,000 young people left the Republic of Croatia. From the above, it appears that vocational education will have to become a priority of educational reform. The strategy and development programme of vocational education must enable the construction of a modern system of vocational education, based on the partnership of educational institutions and economies through the creation of modern curricula defined by competences and learning outcomes that will determine the economy by introducing a quality system, continuous education of teachers, the application of new teaching methods, the development of rational and functional networks of well equipped vocational schools and the equipment of regional competence centres that will be defined by sectoral and market principles. Furthermore, schools should be given great autonomy in creating professional curricula, which will enable them to direct the teaching process towards the needs of the economy. In order to achieve this, therefore, it is necessary to implement a series of comprehensive measures and activities in which other ministries must participate, and it is necessary to include representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of crafts, and finally students themselves, in order to be able to inform and direct themselves in the development of a future career in due time. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce has already carried out certain activities in this direction by promoting the concept of dual education, in order to link vocational education and the labour market and should certainly be commended. The dual education system is present and implemented in developed European countries. But this Law, even though there were government promises, does not introduce dual education. It could be said that it is only one step in introducing work - based learning. Furthermore, as a paper introduced by this Act, it is certainly necessary to highlight the establishment of regional competence centres, a step in the right direction of developing vocational education in cooperation with economic operators at the level of individual regions, i.e. counties. We are pleased that the competence centres will be able to sectorally direct what will contribute to the integration of local craftsmen and entrepreneurs with the education system. Competence centres should be places of excellence in which new technologies will be continuously implemented and the education of regular students, teachers, mentors from the world of work, students of adult education, and students of higher schools will be conducted. It is also important to ensure a local social partnership to set up regional cooperative committees to ensure that local self-government, vocational schools and economic factors are jointly concerned about the development of vocational education at local level, to bring it into line with the needs of the local labour market and to provide the necessary places to learn in the world of work. However, when we talk about regional competence centres, I must point out that this proposal excludes the financing or co-financing of these centres. We, therefore, believe that this is unacceptable in the IDS because this is how it is proposed to present an excessive financial burden for local and regional self-government and will not be sustainable in the future. We therefore believe that the establishment of centres directly related to the description of their business for economic operators should have been agreed at the level of various ministries which would then co-finance such centres. Greater funding of the state for more modern vocational education schools, greater links with economies based on learning based on real working environment, greater links with professional associations and monitoring labour market needs, greater role of the economy in forming sectoral and professional curricula, would likely reduce the lack of skilled labour, reduce unemployment, and the economy would have greater potential for growth. It was also proposed that a representative of the founders, therefore cities and counties, should be included in the Council for Professional Education. This proposal is not accepted with the explanation of the applicant in order to lead to the possibility of a conflict of interest. I believe that the kind of approach that a Priory takes with mistrust towards the founders is not good. The Ministry should see partners in the construction of a modern education system in cities and counties and include founders in the work of the Council. Therefore, we will also support the amendment announced by the HDZ Club. Finally, I can say that this bill represents some progress and improvement in relation to the current legal framework for vocational education, but this progress is still insufficient. We therefore believe that the legislator should address some of these issues as urgently as possible, allow for more meaningful learning based on work in the real working environment, and should allocate greater resources as well as attract EU funds to develop vocational education and regional competence centres. For more significant steps and changes to the better, a whole new Law on Professional Education should be adopted, and I therefore call on the Ministry of Science and Education to move towards a comprehensive and comprehensive solution as soon as possible, both in a segment relating to vocational education and in terms of reforming the education system as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71733	Thank you very much. We also have replicas. The first is the respected representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71734	Dear colleague Demetlika. I fully agree with you that there is a huge inequality of the education system and the need for the labour market. You also cited this information that we have 180 thousand unemployed in the Republic of Croatia at the moment, and on the other hand, you also referred to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in November 2018, when it actually established an annual quota for the employment of foreigners. 29 thousand work permits and quotas for 2018. Of which 17800 new employment and 1940 seasonal employment permits. Of which 1400 for tourism and 540 for agriculture. And that's quite clear. Now, what role or authority at this time has a state in creating if we want to start only from that registration policy, that is, human potential management in terms of less economists, more and more. There's not much. You know why? You know who's making the registration policy? County. Based on school plans, the counties are sending their registration plan to the ministry for next year. Whether it has been considered in line with regional policies, in line with the needs of the market in those regions, I am talking about schools, and then after that about counties or more about preserving peace in chambers and saving jobs, I am not sure. This could be discussed at an entire thematic session. Very often children are consciously educated for the Employment Service in order to save the structure of employees in schools. That's true, let's not keep our mouths shut about it. That's true. That's what we can only jump to with our brains, our responsibility and our courage to make some moves. When we talk about a network of schools, too. The government can't do anything without founders. So I am for bigger, quality assurances. Who hires high-quality people in schools? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The founders also have influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71735	The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlik, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71736	Here's a thank you. Comrade Voter, I fully agree with what you've said. It's going down the hair, not by the hair, and it's certain there's not enough courage to turn that around. But I'll get what I said. Unfortunately, there is one perception in public. I'll tell both students and parents. And they also put pressure on schools to please everyone to enroll in that economy or in some professions that we unfortunately have too many at the institution today. That's why I said that students should not be in high school but also in elementary school in the fifth, sixth grade to learn about the potentials that have a certain environment and direct them towards these professions. Let's remember when we were at school as kids, then our parents told us if you didn't do well in school, you'd be a garbage man. Today he's already saying he's gonna be a cook or a waiter or a welder. And we just miss that, and the economy is missing. Therefore, by connecting both economies and institutions and institutions for education with one good I will say meeting young people about employment opportunities, but here I am also saying that there are other ministries that, for example, the Ministry of Tourism as well as what it is already doing, that it gives certain resources to scholarship students and to stay and provide them with a new job. So are the other professions. That's why I called for other ministries to be involved in co-financing, not all of them to fall on the burden of the locals tomorrow, i.e. County level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71737	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71738	Dear fellow Tulio, thank you for a nice debate with very professional, chosen words. However, I am an opinion, and I am drawing this opinion from my long-standing practice that no education system will fully bring the education system closer to the real needs of the labour market. And if this solves a part of the problem solves it profuturo and solves it for that moment. However, technology, skills, services advance from day to day. So there is no system that will answer for an education system that will answer for all time and be so competent and flexible but must be upgraded. Many of our neighbours have experience in Italy as they have been educated to develop technologies, how informal education has been added to this education system, and I think we need to anticipate this, and I agree that a new law and a new approach is needed. Because you have to be, you have to adapt to the situation. I don't see it in this system. We create something and we think it's ideal. It's not going to be ideal in itself, because I'm telling you the technologies are going to change. And he shouldn't be so cruel that he can only train someone for quality work and be a good worker. I worked and was an associate of the Oilic Staff Education Centre when there was no problem with the workforce as it is today. But on some base that was high school or unfinished high school had to be upgraded.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71739	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71740	Thanks to a colleague on the line, you said we should be more flexible. But we've heard from both the ministry and previous speakers that this bill makes the whole system much more flexible. So far the educational institutions have been I'll say too closed, i.e. rigid and slow to adapt market needs. We know that today when a student leaves that high school, that simply he, his competences, have nothing to do with the competencies needed on the labour market. But just through this change and this proposal proposed by the ministry are sensitized and employers, i.e. economic, Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, since they are direct users I will say education services must get competent tomorrow workers. And that's why I said that the dual system, especially for professional professions, is important, so that the student is immediately, and today the employers are willing and willing to invest even because it is important for them to gain quality workforce, to provide them with additional scholarships and to provide them with quality practice. And these employers are also ready today to invest in workshops or in schools or centres of competence, so that this practical part of teaching is done as well as possible so that students can immediately enter the world of work at the end of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71741	Thank you very much. Now we will move on to the next club of representatives, and that is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected ministers with associates and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club will support the proposal for these amendments to the laws. We have already set ourselves up in the first reading in some way for the absolutely every step that needs to be contributed to this and I will dare say at this moment in Croatia, the most vulnerable part of education, and the most potent part of the education system, although we have had some not to say remarks, but simply some suggestions for its improvement. Part of them is respected, part of them isn't. We believe that it is a logical sequence of all that has been happening in the legislative framework that has been a premise for the development of vocational education from 2009 to today. In 2009, let us not forget through the Law on Professional Education for the first time we introduce sectoral councils as bodies serving as a bypass and information channel between the labour market and the education system, in fact those bodies that give the education system what the market needs. After that, in 2013, an extremely important law adopted in the Croatian Parliament which cannot be seen separately from this law, which is the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework as one of the most important instruments of quality assurance, not only in this professional part of secondary education but also at the level of higher education, which also strengthens the evaluation of the evaluation and coordination of education policy, the policy of perfecting lifelong professional guidance with real life or what all those who step out of the education system must come into the world of work. After that, in the Croatian Assembly, the Science, Education and Technology Strategy, which is true, did not travel the way that Croatia will go into the development of vocational education, so we had to adopt a Plan for the development of vocational education and training, which has defined Croatia's commitment a little more strongly, a commitment to the development of vocational education, but also a significant instrument for the two operational programmes Competitiveness and Cohesion that we can use, seems to me somewhere around 65 million euros from the IRDF Fund for the development of vocational education. On the other hand, the operational programme Effective human potential through which we will draw 50m euros for the development of vocational education by 2020 and the ISF and the smaller part of the national contribution. So these are all some kind of advances, so that we don't forget the full curricula reform that took place in the first part of the material part of reforming the outdated, I will dare say, teaching plans and programmes and their reform into a more modern, more modern and adventurous society and the labour market needing competences and learning outcomes. However, in order to implement all these documents we have at this point a national curricula of vocational education, we have in the good part and documents of sectoral curricula, so we have professional curricula, only through this law we are actually creating a legal assumption that they take effect, although in some Croatian schools new curricula are already being implemented at this point. It seems to me that if I'm not mistaken for 30 professional curriculas replacing old curriculas and programs, several of them are in experimental stages. But by adopting these amendments and by supplementing the law, there will be no more legal obstacle to at least professional education through a curriculum basis setting up a full curricular reform. I do not now enter into content implementation, it depends largely on the education of our teachers and teachers, it depends largely on human space and other assumptions, it depends on some mobility, the exchange of experiences, on ensuring quality through the processes of self-valuation, external evaluations etc., etc., but this is a significant step in this regard and the removal of some legal barriers that have so far existed to carry out what has taken place for three years certain processes happen. What we've already heard, and I wouldn't be too long on this, so the proposal to amend and supplement this law with this development of all levels of curricula, plus the introduction of a new one that is now here thank God finally made more clear that these are curricula institutions for vocational education, these are their kind of identification cards and what makes them different compared to other perhaps schools that carry out the same professional programs, where they must together with the community, with social, economic and other factors to see in which way they are profiled. We already have examples of very nice practice, here I think I must mention, it may not be appropriate in the Croatian Assembly but Mr. Assistant Minister is one of the people who actually at his school already shows how excellence should work, which means centres of competence in life that live, which means quality management and management, I think the school in which he was the principal has withdrawn seems to me somewhere around 6 million euros through more than 20 projects. And from one such average schoolgirl, it has become a school that can be measured and be a role model for many European schools where students grow agricultural products, and they grow finished products. So everything that actually one school as a microcell society as a center of excellence should be. It is not, of course, the only school, we have the example and the professional school "Vice Vlatković" in Zadar, they are a little more concerned with some other programs, Ruđer Boskovic's school in Zagreb, these are some schools that come to mind first. So Croatia already has centres of excellence but not because it has provided or stimulated the state, not because it has provided or encouraged the founder unfortunately but because some people at some point in some places rely on and in their pecs to show innovation, asked others who know, asked Europe, asked experts how to make some of this whole story and they succeeded. Now, they may get the formal status of the Centre of Competence through this law, I don't know if they need these funds that are available to us for a billion euros, but they certainly have a good key study that they can implement, an experience that they can share with others that we have as many such centres of excellence as possible because it's what improves our system. But these people who will now come behind these people who have already established centres of excellence will have EU financial assistance. Will it have financial sustainability when these funds are no longer available? It's something to discuss. Should we resolve financial sustainability through the amendment, by adopting amendments where we will bring another member who is the founder, I am not sure. I don't mind it personally, but I'd rather the founders at this point with all those levers, I won't tell the authorities but the powers they have in the system, meaning in creating a registration policy, in fully branding their schools in the area where it doesn't cost anything because still the state pays all that expensive that they imagine, both employees and minimum standards etc., etc.. If we use that power they have, we wake up a little bit, as some people already do and say, take matters into their own hands and say ok, we're going through the Varazdin County, we're going through Istrian County, we're going through some other county. And there's probably a headmaster and people in their county who know and who can contribute to a model like this. As far as the centres of excellence are concerned, I would like to, or pardon, the regional centres of competence. I keep saying, it's clear to me that we have to pass this law, among other things, and because we don't lose our money, we only have these billions of euros for two years, so now we're already in January, if we discuss the tender according to your plan, the public call in March, so we'll only be able to sign contracts at best out there in June, we're in great tea. Now, as we're going to distribute those funds as much as we said 170m euros to 21st Center, I wish we had, in parallel with this law, at least a draft, a plan, a vision of the development of the centres of competence. We see through this law that we are focusing on these five areas, meaning agriculture, engineering, health care, electrical engineering, IT sector. Now, does this mean, now that we have only representatives in the Council of the five years, in some way, of these ministries, does this mean that in the next means by 2020, we will only allocate these EU funds to the centres of competence from these sectoral areas to say construction, I don't know, some other, shipbuilding, metallurgy, forestry, wood industry, construction, can I forget about these funds, can it go to another stage? What are the ratios of the representation of the competence centre if we have 5 sectoral areas, 21 competence centres in what way. I think those schools will be greatly privileged. And it's extremely important that this 21, that these funds go into the right hands and actually the output effect is maximum positive. In which direction it will all go together, it is unfortunately not visible from this law, but the fact that it cannot remain and lag behind in this law. So the problem of development and sustainability and quality of vocational education cannot be solved only through these measures means introducing a term of dual education, creating assumptions for the establishment of centres, regional centres of competence, through a little more cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of crafts in terms of working time, students in teaching or in practice where we have now increased actually this school year of students in vocational schools from 38 to 40 weeks due to the extension of space for more practice so children will be able to work longer, etc., etc. I'm not sure we'll work it out. So we have a key problem that I believe will begin to solve through a new law, I have heard announcements from the ministry, so a good quality Croatia is a proper professional education system that will have to start taking care of the quota system at one point, in the right sense of human potential management, means systematic management of human potentials that does not really happen to us, that we have 190 000 unemployed and on the other hand we import 32,000 here with seasonal jobs, for example in tourism and agriculture, which is a total illogicality. On the other hand, we will have to deal more seriously with quality assurance as we know to secure at 4 levels, we said through HKO but means through programmes or curricula, teacher education and two levels of evaluation through self evaluation and external evaluation and through popularisation of vocational education. Unfortunately, despite the fact that we have some data, 71% of the students involved in the profession, the other day I heard 66% of the total number of students involved in professional programs in the Open. Unfortunately, we still see that the heavy employability, although they make up most of the education system and unfortunately the professional programs are their third, fourth, fifth or sixth choices, is still considered that if you have entered some kind of professional program you are less valuable than a high school student, although I still think it is better to be employed by a Colloquial professional than an unemployed high school student, there is a lot of work ahead of us, but let's just say, if this is the first step in the reform of vocational education, it is the beginning of vocational education, if this is one step forward to improving this system, we support it but it does not mean that we will not follow closely what it is doing, how funds are allocated, whether it will go into the right hands and will ultimately result in a better quality of vocational education, greater satisfaction from our students, teachers, parents, parents and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71743	Thank you. We have a number of replicas on your display, so let's move in line, the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71744	Dear colleagues of the Voice, you said you would support this law, I will support it as you do, but I personally don't think such laws should be the legal basis for only attracting funds. They should not be focused on the part that, after attracting funds, a greater burden should be placed on units of local self-government or regional self-government, and I think that such draft laws should, in my opinion, be a set of laws relating to the demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I say that, and I like to say it for practical reasons because most people who listen to us probably don't know what a regional centre of competence or curricula or curricula or whatever we call it, or a dual system of education. To me in my office and, like most colleagues, it's probably, a bunch of drawers of résumés of our young people who have completed an economic, legal, philosophical or such a college in the hope that in some way in conversations with the owners, they can open the door to get a job. On the other hand, in negotiations with these same economies, I am constantly complaining I cannot find people who need them and about their technological processes of work. We came to this point that I was forced recently to contact the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering in Rijeka, the Technical School in Rijeka, to now organise this Saturday meeting with them to see if they could generate enough workforce for a production company of huge proportions that should come into our area over a period of two years. And that's exactly the point in me being supposed to be, like, some kind of debate. And not only are we going to talk about how we're going to extract funds from the EU, how we're going to redistribute these funds in some way and not just think about these things that are related to life issues, to the jobs of our young people who should be living here and not looking for existence somewhere in Ireland or other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71745	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71746	... I agree with you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But what's been going on for two years? ... Wait a minute, there was an OP for these billions, two years you weren't able to come here with any law. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] In 2020 is there, I have no heart to raise my hand against the law, if we raise our hands against this law, we lose all the billions at our disposal, we'll have nothing, we'll have a spike, we'll have a spike. Here's that, we came in... They're saving themselves that, instead of you as HDZ thanking them, you're still attacking them here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with some of the things you said, but we understand the circumstances in which we are. And secondly, you're saying you should have a demographic policy package. What demographic policies? So did the secretary of state tell you the other day that you don't have a demographic policy? That everything is a joke, a folklore and a public show. Well, there's better to be anything going on than nothing. And I agree that this law will not solve a small part of the problem in vocational education, but at least it will save billions that many have tried to secure through many operational programmes and some have questioned that money by their inaction for two years. So now we are in a position to accept and what may not be perfect but is doing more interest, for Croatia's sake. He's doing 21 schools. And finally, for the sake of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71747	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71748	Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that you like this law prepared by both Minister Šutar and Minister Barisic and, of course, Minister Divjak, but here I would like to hear your opinion on the reviews of the HAZU. It's a top scientific institution, so here's what you think, what you think about these reviews and, in particular, one small sub-question, what you think about their position that this latin curricula is actually acceptable in the Croatian standard language and that the curricula is not. Here is your position on this, and how will you vote on the amendment, should we use something that is in the standard Croatian language and that derivative, or will you continue to insist on one version that does not correspond to the Croatian standard language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71749	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71750	Comrade Zekanovic, you are always like a parrot in this assembly repeating the same thing. If your biggest problem is the Croatian education system, will it write a curicula or a curicula then you really live in a happy country that has no problems. What I think about the position of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, their review, I think about what I think about some members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which, covering the mark of HAZU, is their own personal opinions to obstruct the implementation of full curricula reforms for a while. Not everyone does, but some do, and it's no secret. And you are the intellectuals of the Republic of Croatia who want good to Croatia, social development, should not allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71751	A colleague, Zekanovic, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what is he injured about?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71752	I've got article 30, 38 of my colleagues disrespecting other MPs, said I'm a parrot, so I'm not gonna say she's a chicken, for example. or something like that wouldn't be right, but I think that the Croatian language should be properly respected, that is, held to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71753	I estimate no injured Rules of Procedure and let's all stay away from different types, animals, any feathered ones, any others. The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Excuse me, Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, you fellow voters said a lot of things amazingly but truthfully, I agree with most of it. And I'm particularly glad that you have actually admitted that all the problems of our education system will not be solved by reforming the curricula programme, etc. It's just that there's a lot deeper problems. So, you yourself mentioned some, teacher training, network enrolment policy, etc. And that's exactly the kind of system problems that we need to deal with first. And then, of course, this part of the teaching plan and program, that is, according to the new curricula. But I do have, one thing about what you said to the county, so you're back on the story about that, that the problem with unemployment is with the county, etc. But I think the county's still looking and working through some kind of framework, and the framework that exists, they all mentioned a network that doesn't bring counties and also restrictions on resources. So it would be very good if you could invest enough in these vocational schools, so you could enroll more students in some areas, etc. if you could equip those schools in an adequate way with these technologies and then you could work with those students. If you can't equip the school, then of course you can't enroll students in an area where you simply don't have the resources. But I didn't really want to ask you, what I wanted to ask you about is the strategy, the education strategy, so you mentioned it quite often today, and now that the strategy has been adopted in 2014 because it has already been several years since then and since the technologies of change are progressing, etc. as said repeatedly here, as you think, whether this strategy is needed now, there is such that it does not change in any way or perhaps there is a need then, given the development of technology and the education system that there is possibly some kind of revision. So what's your opinion on it? Or we should have one document that we'll stick to as a drunk float for a couple of decades. Here's what you think of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71755	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71756	As the Croatian Assembly strategy was adopted, it was quite clear that the strategy was of course not a sacred letter, which was closed, it must simply correspond to the changes in the time in which we live. However, this is our strategic document, among other things, is an ex-sant condition for withdrawing funds from the EU, you know very well, you were in the ministry. The EU will not give you the funds for something that is not based on the state document, the guarantee, the guarantee of the state, and the border is a strategic state document, the strategy of education science and technology is an ex-sant condition for everyone in the operational programmes by 2020. Of course, it is envisaged that action plans, that they are changing, that the strategy is also changing, but if we wanted to revise the strategy, that the new operational programme for the 20-27 perspective would be working in line with the new strategy, then we should have already done so. But we have a problem, because we haven't even started implementing this existing one yet. So, that one key part of the entire curricular reform, thanks to the other and your party, is dying in torment, poor for 2.5 years. And now, we should already be doing an audit of the existing, if we wanted an OP of some other or something, but we're not able to even carry out this eye that we agreed on. It is certainly not a closed book, as no curricula will be closed book, but at the very least, it would be polite and responsible of the responsible people that those documents that we have brought in to at least implement them, to respect them, not to tear them down before, immediately after we have brought them in, and before we have carried a letter out of them, they escape.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71757	Thank you. The next replica, the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71758	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Glasovac, your debate has offered me a single line, which I'm going to say more for the public here, but, well, I'm taking the opportunity to replicate to you, I think, I believe you have an attitude about it, too. In fact, we have heard today, technology and technology are changing and this law is going in this direction to give young people really the best approach to today's model of development and technology and technology, then ultimately, the development of society as a whole. But what you're... Doesn't change, which stays permanent, these young people who will work tomorrow either in central competence, or still in employers, they're still hungry, they need to eat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are our achievements in art. 14th Amendment in Art. 29. and we say that if the practical course and exercise continue for 4 or more hours a day, the participants must be provided for at least 30 minutes a day. Great. Maybe we'd better get them 30 pounds of salami to have something to eat. I think this law would help young people where and where better, especially here, our students in vocational education, if this problem were to be considered. In fact, elementary school kids have kitchens, students have a subsidized diet, only high school kids don't actually have any food subsidies and no one actually takes care of whether they eat. And especially here, I'm talking about young people who, as we can see, are going to work four hours and more. I don't think we as a society should ignore that fact and try to make these people a decent daily meal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71759	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Žagar, my former colleague, SDP, you know that from 2012 to 2015, as regards the issue of nutrition, we have taken steps and that, not even all primary school students, unfortunately the issue of diet is resolved even though we should have it resolved. On the one hand, some schools don't have school kitchens, on the other hand, where some parents don't just give their children money to co-finance their meals. After that, we joined a European project, you know, a school fruit scheme, where at least we provided children with a healthy fruit daily. The next step was supposed to be milk. I don't know if it came to life in schools or not. And on the other hand, now this project for socially endangered children, where children who are poor simply provide a meal in schools. However, I invite you to this occasion, we have discussed today at the Club, that we will initiate one thematic session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture with this particular topic – ensuring school nutrition in Croatian schools, let's see. We know it's, in a way, the legal obligation of the founder. However, we believe that there are opportunities, that there will be funds for competence centres here, that there are ways to further expand the beauty of students who will provide a warm meal in schools, if not from a Croatian budget that does not have the means to do so, and then from EU funds. So, here, and this way I invite you, no matter what you are not a member, it seems to me to the parent board that you are taking part in this session, to make your constructive contributions and to help the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry, to see where there are additional facilities to help children and their parents, so that no child in Croatian schools is hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71761	Thank you. The next replica is respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71762	Thank you very much. Well, just for a little while, colleague Glasovac, before I go on what I was about to say, I'm just going to remind you that you're going to have to deal with me first, and I agree, here, the two of us are going to agree that the common subject is what's important. What I wanted, which I will agree with you again, and what was very important to me, and you pointed out in your presentation is the question of the curricula of the institution of vocational education as an important document which is in my opinion, and here I agree with you, very important, because of the fact that you have said it nicely gives a single ID card to each of our vocational schools and actually gives it, I would say, the possibility and opportunity for profiling every single one of our vocational schools that, through its own curricula which is defined in the law as a curricula of the institution for vocational education, gives itself that level and a dose of visibility, gives what differs from some other school, which makes it different, and by which it is more quality, and that is precisely what gives visibility and image to our vocational schools, which contributes, at the end and the development of the local community, and I think it is very important because the quality is recognized in this or that way when-when. We've had that in situations where we haven't had this Law yet, not in the draft, but in some past time, we've been talking about a vocational school where the former principal was a man sitting here with us today, Mr. Sprayo. That quality was recognized one way or another, which I think is really important. And it's not just a school in the boat. There are a number of other schools in the Republic of Croatia, from the secondary school in Čakovec, in Varazdin, and after all, I will also say in my Pitomachi a great vocational school. Now, the basic question of this law, and then, here I'm referring to both you and some who have previously commented, how to turn this one spectral quality into a system and how to turn these schools that are currently exceptions into one systematic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71763	Thank you. Here, we'll hear the answer to the respect of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71764	That's a tough question. I think the answer to that question takes a lot of smart and brave heads, but here you see colleagues Bedekovic, a great role can play precisely the founders you represent in today's debate. You also represented them at the Committee of Origin when we discussed the law in the first reading. So it's the founders who are sort of the source of information. County, if we take an example now of a high school where they are the founders of the county, the counties are the ones working their regional development policies. It's the county that knows where they're seeing their county for the next 5, 10 years. Following where they see their county, where they want to profile it, is in tourism, is in agricultural, is in another direction, according to which they should plan to manage human resources. Who will lead this development, who will need the staff, how they will encourage them to return the staff after college to their cities, how to get the high school students who have completed professional-reversible occupations, to get in catering, let's say schools best, what they should already do to hotels, if commitment is touristic. That according to this they send their enrollment plans to the ministry for each school year. That they're creating networks of their schools accordingly. They're huge. That, accordingly, they employ only the best of the best, not those who have this or that party search. So, the county, or founders, are the engines and wheels. At least now it's in the existing law. We've had decentralisation. We're not in the sense that the state is still paying. They just put out a bill, and we pay for it. But we've had decentralisation. We've given great authority. Now we're wondering where the responsibility is and what we've made of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71765	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71766	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glasovac, I've been listening since this morning to this debate, from the Minister's presentation to a series of debates between colleagues and colleagues in the ruling and I mean, I can actually rely on this one, based on what you pointed out in your debate, on how this is actually about these money, which is here and which is to be saved. In other words, the law is passed on principle... He won't, no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So by force there was a big debate about what we should do, actually, with this law and here and here, but here, in the end, it looks like we're all going to raise our hands for something, which, I think, is actually not satisfied with. I think from the ranks of the ruling instead of support we've heard incomparably more criticism at the expense of this law than from the opposition's ranks, we seem to understand what this is all about. From the HDZ line 3 or 4 different approaches on one topic. I actually have the impression at the end of the day that here, around this law there's quite a lot of disagreement, first of all with the ruling ones, I think, but here we go. In a situation where we are generally lagging behind with these funds, with the money we have at our disposal where we do not withdraw properly, obviously, and in Croatia we have to make laws, only to save from the money that is being saved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71767	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71768	Yes, when you've had two years of inaction, then at some point you realize that this train will pass, that Grandma with cookies, in order for it to pass, that there won't be a chance for a correctional chance, then there are some people who still recognize that moment and try to save what is being saved. It is no secret that the education system, and even some attempts to change the education system, are constantly the subject of certain grasses, blows under the belt, disagreement within the coalition, we see it today in this debate. That the ruling would likely support this law if their amendment were supported. Okay, okay, I'd just, I think it's clear to me that through the amendments and the additions of the law we're limited, so we can't, through, only to write a new law, then we could change everything and then we could make one serious law, which guarantees, indeed, a real reform of vocational education but the one in the full sense. By changing and supplementing the law, you are simply limited, 30% seem to me that the articles that you can change and here have decided what the priorities are. Priorities are to create legal assumptions for such introduction of already created curricular documents, so that they can be introduced into schools according to the law. Another to save these EU funds, the third to open up space for what we signed with Switzerland regarding the main education, which should also go, seems to me to be a pilot in one part of this professional reform, and that is it. Okay, it's not what Croatia should be, but we can't deny now that it's not even a certain effort. So, so much more, I have to say, here, I thank the Ministry for at least taking action in this area unlike the predecessors, who have done nothing for two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71769	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71770	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with their associates. Here on behalf of the HSS Club I say we will support the adoption of the Law on Professional Education, because first of all there is no development in Croatia, no economic development, no investment in science and education, and professional education together with studies in the field of housing should be the main tool in economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. However, this law itself is a good tool, but it will not solve all the problems that we have in the framework of and professional education in other areas. First of all, it should be reiterated that Croatia needs to be more singled out of the state budget for science, education, and especially for vocational education. It should be said that the procedure for the adoption of the national curricula and the full reform of education must be accelerated immediately. And when it comes to vocational education, I am pleased that this law will be a tool to first and foremost improve the situation in this area and on the other hand to withdraw funds from the EU, which will contribute to the further development of the system itself and give young people a better chance of getting those skills through their education, those skills, which will tomorrow be employed on the labour market and what we all want, I hope that they will stay alive in the Republic. It still pains the fact that around 170, 180 thousand people unemployed at the Employment Service, that the Minister of Germany one day praised that 93,000 Croats were registered to have moved to Germany alone, where other European countries, Ireland, and that we must certainly look for models to stop emigration and give the chance for these unemployed to be and through lifelong education tomorrow are employed on the labour market, especially young people who are just entering that life working to have quality skills and to be able to get a job. In order for this to really happen, it needs, as is said here to change a series of laws, not only this one law is sufficient, because these days we listen to problems that our local, regional self-government, which are founding members of primary and secondary schools, I say on paper, because they do not have complete tools, for real governance, because on the school board, we often, are reputed by school board members who come from school, institution or institution, because they do not have a majority, and they are founders. And then comes the question of this registration quota which here was that there was a desire and the intensity of the administrative departments in the counties to change the registration quotas without having resistance or at school because of what is being said here or because there is no interest in the economics to have students, scientists, practitioners in their businesses, because of tax laws, because of the Labour Protection Act and other restrictions, they run away from it. So we are not going to solve this problem with this law, but in cooperation with other ministries whose competence and tax policy and labour policies and salaries are to help these craftsmen and entrepreneurs to be interested in having students, to train them with quality education together with the institution, with the school, and to have that worker who will then work in their workshop and have those skills and will certainly be adequately paid for that job, so that he can live off his work. Until we do, I'm saying that this law will be just one detail in solving this problem, but it's not enough. So we propose precisely in this sense that a whole new national strategy be created for the development of vocational education through national curricula, through changes to all other laws, and that our goal must be to stop emigration and give young people a chance to have quality education, to have where to educate, to have all equal practices, workshops. Because we don't all seem to have the same chance, that all schools aren't equally equipped. The fact is that in all schools we do not have an adequate number of teachers, i.e. professor, mentors, who are well educated to provide practical teaching and on the other hand we have this big problem that we have a reduction in the number of economic operators due to the general crisis in the economy and entrepreneurs and craftsmen, each year, we have someone who closes the crafts and leaves the Republic. So I say that this law is not enough and that, along with this law and a number of others, we need to change it to stimulate the craftsman and employer that he is interested in having his workshop fully equipped and that he is receiving students in education and on the other hand that we have a student who is interested in enrolling one of these professions offered to them for which he will be able to get a high-quality job tomorrow. And I'm sorry that in these areas it's not construction, and there's a need to think about it for a reason, here's an example, a craftsman's association that deals with roofing work and making facades, because these days because of the other ministries and the measures they've launched because of the energy renovations have an increased need for workers of these profiles, has not been waiting for the adoption of this law or the government and the ministry's reaction, but have organised themselves and are working on one material, promo material on the interestingness of these callings and interests they need and plan to tour. Of course with the consent of schools and founders of all schools professionally, present these titles and occupations and are ready together with teachers from these schools to participate in the education of these future workers and thus do themselves a service to have a quality workforce, educated and, on the other hand, to point out that it is not bad in Croatia today to be a roof covering, facade, installer, etc. And that tomorrow of these occupations can live in quality. This should be our common goal, and I think that this example should follow not other professions and other professions as they have organized. Of course, we support the establishment of regional competence centres and that we want it to be in every county, especially in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem because we know that it is precisely the largest number of unemployed in the region and that it is the region that needs to be given greater priority in attracting these funds from the EU, and I am saying this because the founders of these institutions of the county that do not have enough of their own funds to invest more in these schools, although I know that both the Brod-Posavia County and Vukovar-Srijemska have worked hard to do and invested a number of funds in the equipment of their professional schools and Požek, although it is even more in the financial problem due to inherited debts. So here's an example here also of high school agriculture in Slavonski Brod where a series of projects together the county funded with the school but in this way you tied the funds, there is no means to further prepare projects and co-finance projects. This is a real danger, and it must be seen how these environments, these counties that do not have enough of their own funding, will help to establish these centres and be competitive on the market. Because Europe will surely ask us how we spent these funds, whether we have achieved our objectives, because here in this article, when you talk about establishing regional competence centres, you say that they must be sustainable. Yes, they must be sustainable and must respond to the requirements of both employers and students, as well as of course the education system. But we also have to justify the funds invested, there has to be some visible shifts, it's not mentioned here, I think it should certainly be this close relationship with the economy, craftsmen and entrepreneurs. I think they must be included in the management of these regional centres as they have been included on the National Council to engage in these regional centres too that they must be a representative of a crafts or economic chamber or even a successful entrepreneur, an economist who is interested in this way of cooperation and I think they will be interested in this way of cooperation because it is their interest to have a centre in such a environment and that they can then create a qualified workforce for their needs. And that then we have more students enrolled in these titles and occupations, that we have students who will finish that school, work with the same students, and that the wages will grow and the incomes of the economy will grow. I think we need to install these criteria, only in this way can we raise the importance of vocational education and give young people a chance to have quality occupations with which they will be employed, to have salaries they will be able to live on, and the same economic operator can earn income because he would not be engaged in entrepreneurship that he does not have the goal of having income. So in this direction we have to do a little bit more precisely because I already mentioned the problem of the financial budget of the county as founders of primary and secondary schools because it will appear here, you have stated here that the centres will finance and set up units of local or regional self-government, I think that it must be included exactly the state of the national budget because the county will not be able to do so alone. And if we leave it like you said here that these regional centres of competence can have other sources of income, so they're on the market, then they're competing with that economy. I do not think that this must be, that it must be in cooperation with the economy and that centres from local, regional and national budgets and of course EU funds must be financed. So in this direction we want to contribute to making this law more quality, to regulate this area in quality, to have educated children who will tomorrow be high-quality workers and to have an economy that has the capacity to hire them and to have them all together and income and pay from which they can live. I hope that you have respected these criticisms, remarks and that this law will contribute to the fact that vocational education is really the cornerstone of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia and that in this way we create assumptions, stop emigration from the Republic of Croatia, and that we can finally sing in Slavonia, that it is both fair and rich again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71771	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed mistress Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71772	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vlaovic, we all agreed here today that vocational education in the Republic of Croatia was on the sidelines of the education system. One of his colleagues told us that his enrollment in crafts school has been halved in the last few years and the labour market is calling for well-trained personnel. It is commendable that this government brings to the heart this Law on Professional Education and, of course, it is necessary to connect the labour market and all other stakeholders related to this law. We in our county today, which is very famous for the county that has a large number of unemployed, we already have several times at the Employment Agency ads for the number of drivers we don't have, locksmiths, installers, builders, carpenters, chefs, waiters, waiters, means that in this educational system we have to connect and the labour market and what I am particularly glad is that at the head of this working group, a leader who is exactly the man from our county, a man who was not a very desirable choice, somewhere among the last elections, has led to that she is among the first elections to enroll students in high school, and so I hope that this part of the reform will make it a matter of craftsmanship and that indeed on the labour market equalizes this inequality that this moment is the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71773	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71774	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Members of the Maximchuk, thank you for your replica, so I have initially said that this law is one of the tools to improve vocational education in the Republic of Croatia and that surely this disproportionate that we currently have between the labour market needs and the number of unemployed at the Employment Service must not remain that way and that in the coming period we must all go more actively to get rid of it because here today they were at the gallery of children from the Electrical School of Nova Gradiška and in conversation with them, the question of where they will work tomorrow in the New Gradiška and the wider surroundings. There are few or almost no such jobs for those calling and occupations they have acquired for their education. It is this law, and what I have said, that other measures should contribute that this is no longer happening but that we are really giving the children a chance to educate themselves for some knowledge and occupation, and it is not a shame today to say that I will be a plumber or a roofer, it should not be foreign to anyone if a man sees it but then we must give him a chance to gain that knowledge and that he has a salary to live on. That's why I said other laws need to be changed and harmonised to get out of this situation so the kids can finish school and they don't have jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71775	Thank you very much. We will now move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71776	Thank you very much. I'm actually, a lot has already been said so far, so I'm not going to repeat some things, but here's an individual debate I'm going to use to sort of try to recapture between everything else and everything that we've all talked about together and what we've put emphasis on. First of all, it is clear and I believe that we all agree here to amend and supplement this law, the Law on Professional Education is the basis for modernization and for strengthening, above all, the quality of vocational education, and it is also the basis for linking vocational education with the labour market and what I consider still important to mention here, I don't know if we've talked about, achieving the purpose of vocational education. What Does Purpose Mean? To be meaningful to the extent that we are ready after the third or fourth grade of completed vocational school, to send a future man with a professional interest to the labour market and at the same time to respond competently to all the needs put before him by the labour market, and in this sense we are really here as an important thing and the novelty that the law adopts, we point out first of all the introduction of the concept of learning based on work. I also somehow experience it as a kind of tool that enables us and that in one way or another facilitates the transition of young people to the labour market and here we recognize it, so in the law in some three, so the basic form as culminated through the program and teaching, then at the school with periods in the employer. So we're referring to the employer's practice and, of course, integrated into the program. And when we talk about the place of learning based on work, then there except for that, except for the institutions of vocational education themselves through the practice performed in practice and other than the centres of competence through, therefore, learning based on work in one place of excellence is therefore an important place of practice and the acquisition of competences based on work is with the employer. And in that sense, this law puts a great emphasis precisely on setting up a partnership relationship with our economy where I personally think that if we take a hundred percent of something that in four, three or four years, so the student's professional program should be spent in school, I think half of it should fall out of class and half of it into practice. And these, therefore, 50% of the others who are therefore falling into practice from my assessment are about 30% directly in the employer and 20% in the school practice or. So I think it should be some kind of ratio if we really wanted to teach the student how to work and if we want to send him to the labour market ready. And in this regard, I believe that, indeed, we must think about the best and the best development and foundation of the model of dual vocational education in Croatia whether we will seek our own way, whether we will rely on the experiences of neighbouring countries and Austria and Germany and the surrounding ones. So it's not bad to rely on experience. Sometimes hot water should not be invented if it is already made up, but it is not necessary to ignore its own needs, the needs of its own traditions and its own situations in its own country and the experiences of others. So, not blindly to paint, but to adapt them to the situation that we have, and in that sense, I think that the model, therefore the dual education that will be developed, must be, I would say, grounded, so grounded in terms of being appropriate, so to real needs, and respects the side of experience. The second news, so besides learning based on work, has already been repeated, has highlighted the centres of competence as places of excellence which should therefore contribute, so the better competences of our students acquired right on the spot. And this law gave rise to the fact that existing schools are transformed into centres of competence. And this law provides for that model. How this will happen in practice, how it will work. Look, none of us have a glass ball in our hands, so to speak, it's gonna be that way. Here we created one base, we created a base, we created an opportunity to close the financial structure, which is not negligible, although closing the law to create only a financial structure is not enough, and here I agree with colleagues who have also commented on it. So the law must have width. When it comes to the financial structure of the center, we've closed it down according to this, I'd say, for the next five years about. So, for as long as it takes us, here's the funding from EU funds and how long we'll have the first round of certified first 21 centres of competence. And that's okay. if that's how we imagined it. And let's try it out in practice. In doing so, the large and all eyes are against the founder who assumes responsibility for the centre and who, through the powers and obligations given to it, assumes equally the responsibility for the sustainability of the centre of competence and for financial stability which is a major obligation. And in this sense, here I am, and I have advocated and advocated a further amendment in which, among other things, a representative of the founders is placed in the Council for Professional Education. Although I agree with my colleague Voter when he says we won't succeed and it's not a guarantee that everything will work out, but here it's all stacking dice. After all, let's consider, I think we discussed it the other day, on the board yesterday. The experience of Poland that began to form if I remember 16 centers of which today only works 7, right? Is it seven? So it is. These are the experiences of others. Why not analyze those experiences and see where we can jump and learn from someone else's, not from our own mistakes. In that sense, I am open to any further possibilities and never forget what practice tells us today, and that is primarily on one side to cut short, so I don't explain much, because we've talked a lot about it. Underestimation by the company of professional professions and on the other hand the disinterest of our youngsters for enrolment, i.e. professional professions. I underline in parallel with, therefore, the development of the model of dual education and the modernisation of vocational education is certainly one strong, strong campaign to motivate young people to enter these programmes and create one atmosphere, so in the entire Croatian society of values, so professional professions and we can only do so and that is a difficult, difficult issue and hard work only if we achieve three things. First, that our young people through vocational education first of all learn to work, that after completing the vocational school tomorrow they can go to the labour market and carry out their work competently, that they can get a job with the employer or just work even better and that from their work or work they can live decently, that they can start their own family, that they can have children. And if we do that, then it's a real demographic measure, that's what we're all talking about. And if not, then all of this will remain a dead letter on paper because indeed the key lies in people and it is up to us to follow all that is going to happen further because let's not forget that modernising vocational education as a process is part of a great process called the reform of the entire education system and we should not expect to get something here overnight. It's a process that takes place, a process that needs to be monitored and a process that needs to be constantly repaired and watched over. And in this sense, the HDZ and the coalition partners are exactly the same, so we know what we want, the paths, the methods may be different and that's why we're discussing and we're talking, but that's exactly the challenge of reaching a common goal in a consistent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71777	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71778	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bedekovic, thank you for the presentation. I must note, however, that between your exposure, the exposure on behalf of the club, which had a colleague Sokol and a comment from a colleague of Putice whose exposure soon follows there are considerable differences. So I would dare say that logic should be like this, that your individual attitudes should in some way be reflected in the debate on behalf of the club, and then that the emphasis should be halfway between all your common views, but I don't see it, I haven't seen your views reflected in my fellow Falcon's debate. And as we previously concluded, I notice quite a amount not in your debate, though, but those on behalf of the club certainly do not satisfy the bill. So my question to you is actually, if you could explain that discretion to me on the one hand and on the other hand, do you think it was with a law like this, then you should wait until different views from your club agree? And of course we heard a colleague of the Puh from the HNS Club, and that's a completely different story again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71779	Thank you. The respected representative Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71780	Thank you, dear colleague, for asking. Well, of course, you listened to everything, but you only heard what you wanted to hear and the way you interpreted it. And my answer, here I said and at the end of my presentation, I mean really our goal is the same, we know what we want. Our paths, our methods differ, and that is a challenge. And you follow closely and listen to our debates and try to listen fully, not just what you want to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71781	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, I will no longer return to this founder's representative, I have nothing against the founder's representative in the Council for Professional Education, but I still don't think that this will absolutely solve any of the problems we have raised throughout today's debate. I think that we as a state really need to do a little bit more, in planning to develop vocational education, to take advantage of all those ends that we hold in our hands, to start from our levels to affect them. And I repeat this appeal again that the founders through their representatives in the school boards are hiring the highest quality and thus contributing to quality assurance in schools, that, on the other hand, they are knowingly and responsibly planning enrolment programmes and sending them to the ministry, that they are in line with development policies, and not with other parameters. Thirdly, to encourage ultimately and to change the network of schools which at the moment is a little questionable, outdated, also does not match some of the changes that have occurred in society since the moment that this network is being brought. And then let all their positive experiences bring to this Council of Professional Education. I still think that in this council it would be logical that the representative of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is, but I will not insist on it or condition the adoption of this law... we will not. What's important is these funds end up in the right hands and there's no pressure to be assigned by some keys to others that aren't keys...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71783	Thank you. The respected representative Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71784	I'll start at the end so long as you let me. So I have no doubt that all these funds that are intended for competence centres will end up in the right hands and in the places where it really is necessary. Each county will get one centre of competence, and then it is indeed and there I agree with you at the founder, at the very school and ultimately at all who are trying to contribute to the development of vocational education that this whole story, so that the existing centres that will be held in a way that is appropriate, whether if the school we go to transform into a center and so we imagine it, then it remains an institution of vocational education which is also the centre of competence. And then, as part of that, they're going to need to discuss both quotas and programmes and the network that I think is old, of course they need to be abdicated. We have a network of schools, I think we should have a network of programs, not a network of schools. But now it's a question again that we can have some new discussion about. And here I am really in favour of putting emphasis on founders for giving as much work and commitment as possible, but also quality feedback by the founders, and I think that the counties can certainly do so and they certainly account for it. At least I remember some of my working life, so I spent one term as head of education in my county, and for four and a few years it's enough time to see and see what all possibilities and ways of action are, but which are also difficulties, both in communication to the Ministry and to other institutions. You know, it's a pretty complex story, which doesn't mean we don't all have to work together to improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71785	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71786	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Professional Education. Well, here it is, I won't speak at first about what I've already emphasized, or what I've warned. I'm going to go a little wider. This law is very important, but as we know, most of the Croatian high school students are just being educated in vocational schools, with the immediate warning of one thing that is wrong with me, which is that we haven't applied the Western European model here, or a little more focused on dual education than we have some combination of 3 programs, and this dual education in vocational schools has shown one extremely good result in Western Europe. But what we all know and this law had to first have its own strategy, which was passed four years ago, and then we started making curricula. I'm going to say again, unfortunately, we're on our way to making these lower-ranking curriculas, so we've developed a curricula for vocational education, so here we are talking about curricula for each individual institution, and until unfortunately we've brought this national curricula yet. I think it's the wrong order. This law has been made by the Ministry for several years, so it has been done by all the previous ministers, however, which is very important, this curricula that we are talking about, I don't think it's done in the right way, or that this national curricula proposal certainly has great objections to many Croatian experts, academics, university professors. Here I am taking the opportunity to ask the minister why these numerous objections to HAZU are constantly ignored on the curicula. I will use these few minutes here, so I will read some of the remarks made by prominent Croatian scientists and distinguished Croatian professors. For example. Professor Boris Willic of the Reider University of New Jersey says the proposal for a reform of the curricula, or whole, as they called it, has disappointed him. Academic Ranko Matasovic says this is controversial and must not be implemented this way. Marko Palekčić says that we are using methods here, that is, trying to implement something that has proved unsuccessful in Western Europe. Prof. Dr. Science Renata Marinkovic says this is all an expensive abstraction. Prof. Dr. Stipe Botica here says this is a foggy imagined reform of education. Academic Kresimir German speaks of numerous professional shortcomings here and incompetence in the assembly, chaos in the follow-up. Marija Azinovic, professor of pedagogue, speaks of underestimating the role of knowledge through this document. Acadamic Ivica Kostovic says there is no analysis of knowledge. I'll be a little ten minutes. Zharko Bosnjak speaks of the lack of such curricula reform. Academic August Kovacec says there are numerous structural defects. The society of Croatian writers speaks and lists numerous professional failures. Dr. Dubravka, all the doctors of science are mostly, I skip telling someone. Dubravka Smajic also says that this curricula is not aimed at fostering Croatian national and cultural identity in many ways. Academic Antun Dubravko Jelcic is talking about numerous failures, indigestional failures, and is talking about how this will ruin Croatian education. Come on, I wouldn't use all 10 minutes to list these remarks. I came somewhere on a dozen of these remarks by prominent Croatian scientists, academics, university professors. I may have misquoted someone, but a network of all the networks can find what I'm talking about. But here I'd like to talk about something else when we're talking about a curicula that's a fundamental document for vocational education and it's about a lecture. Here, we have recently heard that we are being placed in the book, i.e. by pedophile and pornographic content. I'm not going to read this because this is, so these texts and these quotes aren't for the Croatian Parliament, they're not for the public, but please explain one thing along the way and what about these texts. The state assistant, Mrs. Lydia King, justified that any professor could put the book as content, but that he would warn the children that it was unacceptable behavior, or that we would read it and we would talk about it, but in the end we would say that it was wrong. But things are slightly degutant. In the end, I would still go back to that measure, that is, what I was saying at the beginning about one small thing and the big thing. And this is about the application of Croatian language in Croatian laws, meaning in all official documents. And it is that this law also constantly ignores the use of a foreigner, who is not in the standard Croatian language, and it is about the term curricula, and there is a version of Croatian that reads curricula, or we have a Croatian word which is a teaching manual. So I am interested, here it is, targeting the minister and her assistants, which is why you, and even many colleagues here in the Parliament, ignore the standard Croatian language, ignore the opinion of HAZU, ignore the opinion of leading Croatian linguists. Is that spite or is that something else? So I'm just wondering if it's spite. If it's stubborn, say it's out of spite. Here, we won't, we'll use a foreign word, we'll use a word that's used in Serbian, and in Croatian, we won't use the word that should be used. Here, I would now end this debate in a way to greet our Vice President, Bozo Petrov. I'm glad he finally sat down in his place after a long time for which he was normally well paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71787	Dear colleague, I expected a minimal round of applause. Replica to the exhibition, MP Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Zekanovic, I have a few pertinent remarks on your exposure. First you didn't talk about the subject, the topic is vocational education, you were talking about something completely different. But what you were talking about, you were completely wrong. When you ask why you list one group of arguments against curricular reform you did not specify the other side, it's called Cherry Picking, so it's an error in conclusion, you have to, to get the whole picture listed other arguments. But of the ones you listed, you cited wrongly, so the academic Kresimir is not the last name of the German, but the German. So you have to keep an eye on these things. And finally why do you hate Latin, a colleague of Zekanovic and why, when you are already speaking and trying to correct other colleagues and colleagues, why are you doing this wrong? So curiculus is no more Croatian word than curiculum. The only thing that's more foreign to the word curiculum is the continuation of the oneness nomination in Latin. The word curicula is also a Latin word from the verb currera, a curro word that means running, the word curiculum marks first of all the race and then the racetrack and finally the carriage in which the racetrack is raced. The word curricula in this meaning, in which it is primarily in English and then in other languages such as Croatian translated, marks this second race, i.e. the race of life as or the course of life, the tape of life. But if you can explain to me, I mean you can't, why would the word curicula be more Croatian than the word curicula. And don't worry, I know all the arguments of Sanda Ham about it then you should already use the word manual, that's the Croatian word, you said you knew her. But this curricula and curricula that one more Croatian than the other is notorious nonsense. In practice, between what Sanda Ham says and the other words are equally distributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71789	The reply to the replica is representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71790	Here's my dear colleague, I apologize to the distinguished academic Kreshimer Nemec, I mispronounced his name Lapsus linguae, he wasn't a lapus cerebra, he was a lapus linguae, I read it, I read it wrong, it happens to everyone, it happens to you. Well, that's how you got it wrong here at your exposure. You see the curicula is the Croatian latin word, the curiculum is not. Because when we make an adjective of that word, then we have an example. in Serbia, so to speak, aluminum, cumulative, is that right? No, I'm not. [[Intruder: No.]] And here, and Croatian is called curiculous. So this way, I wouldn't go into the language issues here, so deep, but if you want me to give you the material on 30 pages written by prominent Croatian linguists, where it's very well elaborated, which is why you should be the Croatian latinian dictionary, I said that. And that's why you... insist on the fact that there are no Croatian statements of the Latin word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I don't know, biology, chemistry, they're all foreign words, right? Well, this one here, Parliament or Parliament, and also Parliament is not a Croatian word, so what path do we call it? We have a thousand and one example where we have foreign words and Croatian statements. And we also have words that are Latin, that is, not Croatian words and which are wrongly introduced into Croatian. In short, if you want to take it further because it has this interesting one eastern sound of that word. I know it suits many here, it doesn't suit me personally, and I would like to use Croatian words. I'd like it to be a teaching manual, but if we're going to be a Croatian contractor, then it's a clear thing and it's not a curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71791	I would like to ask you to leave the discussion of the root, the follow-up of the word, the language, for some other topic or debate. You just didn't end up saying if you wanted to use Croatian words or derivatives from other languages. The next representative in an individual debate to apply for debate is counterpart Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71792	The representative called for a hearing. I, as a professor of Croatian language and literature, will not feel competent here to discuss it. Dear Minister, too many hours have already lasted this debate, but perhaps according to the importance of the bill that comes to us today from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is one in the package, one of the laws in the reform laws for the implementation of the reform of the entire system of education, the acquisition of competences needed by the labour market in the Republic of Croatia is also one of the main objectives of this law. Recently in the parliamentary debate, we had a debate on the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which can be closely attached to this law, and here we raised the question on several occasions about the work of sectoral councils that we believe might actually contribute to the proposal for this law in fact to the improved application of the curricula of vocational education. In any event, these sectoral councils should function as quickly as possible, work regularly, and perhaps not be called by the public in this regard to the expansion of a bureaucratic apparatus and not only about constructive work in the sectoral councils. My colleague Glavasevic obviously knew in advance what I was going to say, but all of our discussions on the parliamentary committee I believe that both our colleagues from the SDP and our coalition partners will not go, they never went in the direction of being different about these laws concerning our children, our young and our entire education system, but we are trying to clear up somehow the best bill that goes in this sense. And this amendment not only to the HDZ Club, not in the sense that we would give some authority to the county or county as founders, but also to share the responsibility of course in implementing such a law. The 2014 Education Strategy was also mentioned in this House. As part of the proposal for this law, we are interested in, of course, measure 24 16 which prescribes reform and vocational education and in this sense also in establishing a centre of competence that should improve the system and ensure quality in vocational education. It is said in the proposal of this law that these centres will function exclusively by existing spatial and other capacities. What, of course, and rightly taught and experience so far not only in a package of laws that comes from the Ministry of Science and Education but also from other ministries, there is, of course, concerned about the power to set up these centres and their functioning. We are all happy and we will all be happy if all EU funds are withdrawn, from EU funds aimed at establishing a centre of competence. But we know well who we were working in this system, that actually for the functioning of these centers, it is important that teachers be well educated, that the directors of these centres are motivated enough to encourage their teachers to work in quality and, of course, we have enough children to enroll those schools of professional and, of course, remain as a labour force in their fields to implement their knowledge acquired in the centres of competence. In doing so, I do not feel that it is necessary to run away from cooperation between science, education and the economy, close cooperation. I come from a region that is a highly developed tourist area and we simply, for example, in Dubrovnik or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, are not in a position to separate our large hotels, hotel houses, port, airport, so nothing we have down there and in service is as strong and mobile economic branches as education and labour market needs. In some ways, though, we can object to the seasonality of such businesses and these professions that are sought. However, we can see that these things are moving too, that this is something that we need all year in this area. In that sense, as well as below, work in all other areas of the Republic of Croatia. Also related to the Croatian qualification framework discussed, we also talked about the standard of interest that needs to be agreed on and the standard of qualifications, and in this sense, of course, a new entry policy that will be safe within this reform package, which will make it easier for our students and their parents to decide to enroll professional professions. Earlier in the replica, I said that in preparation for this debate I had contacted several directors of crafts, or vocational schools, who told me that they would like to have a little more concrete and a little more accessible information on the withdrawal of funds as well as the education of their staff. But what really bothers them most is the insufficient equipment of workshops, laboratories and practices in which students actually perform their practice and problems with lack of sufficient number of businessmen, i.e. craftsmen, who can be licensed to conduct and mentor students. At present, we have a so-called so-called. I would say the JMO model or the unique model, but this law is what we want in part and dual. It would be good to define it a little bit more in detail and now we're somewhere in practice, I'd say between those two models. It would be good to define our commitment to a single model a little bit more in this law. In any case, I support this bill with some proposals we've already made on the board. And I hope, honestly, that this law as well as the other laws that come from the Ministry of Science will succeed in realising the funds from EU funds, but that they will in any way be in line and connected to all other laws that come to us, of course, with the roof law, or the Law on Education and Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71793	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Mr. Putica. The First Replicate came forward by Representative Maximchuk, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71794	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Putica, we have all agreed that it is necessary to pass a law like this and that, under urgent circumstances, we must stop educating the staff for Munich and Dublin. Of course we need to take care and listen to the needs of the local community and the network of schools adapt to the circumstances. Of course we have to provide better conditions for students, but also for teachers. But you looked back on how you in your county don't really have the kind of problem we certainly have in Slavonia, or in my Brod-Posavina County. So here's how my question is essentially addressed to you, how to level these pedagogical standards, especially now when we're talking about middle school education, how to have equal starting positions. Because we certainly don't have the same starting positions you from Dubrovnik-Neretva County and we from the five weakest Slavonian counties. Especially here, I'll tell the boat-posavina county. We from the original budget certainly cannot allocate as much resources as these rich counties can, so, of course, without the help of the state, I am afraid that after those five years we will hardly be able to hold this project of course which, this time and in my previous debate, I have commended. So here, so this way I appeal that the state must be, means to help us poor county.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71795	Replication response, colleague Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71796	Here's the esteemed MP Maximchuk, of course, which is why I've asked previously in my replica how much we actually know the current state of the labour market and how much we know the current demographic state. Because that is exactly the kind of information that is the basis for making new registration policies at the level of county, cities and municipalities. It is precisely because of the lack of funds in the budgets of the county, as you yourself have stated in Slavonia, that close cooperation between the economy and the education system is needed in order to enable the economy to participate in some way if nothing at least then in the quality of the equipment of such centres and, most importantly, is said today in the debate, after the period of use of EU funds has expired, it is important to keep these centres and we will not, of course, keep them without the population in those areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71797	The next replica is representative Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Putica, you are indeed right, I do not have the ability of the transgender or the gift of prophecy but my comment would, of course, be required to clarify, my comment referred to all of our discussions that we have conducted so far on committees and, of course, drawn from your comments during earlier discussions today. On this basis, I gave birth to the thesis of different attitudes between you and your club. But by respecting everything you said, of course, I thank you for sticking to the subject, if nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71799	Representative Vesna Pusic also appeared on behalf of the closing word on behalf of the GLAS Club of Representatives, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71800	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister to the Associates. I'm sorry that because of some university obligations, I won't be able to say everything about this law that I've prepared for myself, but at least to take advantage of this opportunity to say four things or four points that seem interesting to me, which are some sort of question, a comment on this law, and I hope that you will also consider it in the final address. The first point of the competence centres includes everything from training teachers to helping recruit students. It is clear to me that this law must be passed, I support it that this law must be passed because of the need to use money, and I believe it is pragmatic in my opinion, a more rational approach, certainly better than to consult and not bring about something that allows us to use European funds to improve the conditions for our students in schools. However, this seems to me to be such a complex system of these centres of competence as they are imagined here or at least as I read them from here, that I don't see how we could actually meet all the requirements that are listed here in this law as their jurisdiction, so please, if you can explain it a little bit or say how it will be approached. The second point is to mention, in fact, the part about mobility, the mention of lifelong learning. My impression is that lifelong learning in vocational education and in this kind of education is not the same as in secondary schools and people who, after high school, are sent to post-school education to say so or university education. It is my impression that lifelong learning takes place mainly in vocational education. So, it goes with the work. Whether in this case it is predicted that they are dealing with these masters, the heads of different companies who hire this profile of people who, in my opinion, must participate in this kind of lifelong education, so a large part of that education, if it should be meaningful, must be very closely linked to the work and work that these people are doing. The third point is credit-point valuation. So, this credit-point evaluation in this case is not quite clear to me how it will be implemented, is it according to some universal international standards such as credit points at the university, is it something that will be specific to vocational education in Croatia, which means 10 points for plumbers, does this mean the same thing in Germany as it means in Croatia, as it means in the Netherlands or is something that is specifically defined for Croatian conditions. And finally, the fourth point. It's the National Education Valuation Centre. That I think is really the key thing because the evaluation, in translation, means quality, is that any education makes sense. And in this case to deviate from the criteria, even from those criteria of the National Centre for the Evaluation of Education, I think it would be absolutely harmful for vocational education and would degrade it. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU club absolutely supports the use of the National Centre for the Evaluation of Professional Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71801	Thank you. Representative Batinic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71802	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pusic, just one comment. If I understand correctly, you have said that this law is passed for pragmatic reasons relating to a million kunas of funds available from European funds so that it can be used. I am not that position, and we at the HNS club think it is necessary in view of the situation that is in the economy, which was in the economy now, when it is practically a jag for better quality staff, especially which, workers, who come out of vocational schools, and also when there was a lot of unemployed at the Employment Office, and then employers were just trying as hard as possible. There are also also positive experiences in some environments and before it happens, and I don't see why it would be pragmatic, I just think it's necessary and that it's this law, which will enable the establishment of a centre of competence, that it's an upgrade and that it's in step with time. Because today, when technology advances at such speed in certain sectors, that simply no curricula or curricula, colleague Zekanovic, is here, that well, it cannot follow technological progress and this lifelong learning will probably be defined by the curricula reform of vocational education. Namely, it is necessary that a worker, who, I don't know, is a carpenter, whether a mechanic, who is 20 and 30 years of age, is involved in developing with new technology. And that's why I see an opportunity here in this law, especially at the centre of competence, so that it can be made possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71803	Replica response, MP Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71804	Thank you very much, Vice President. Maybe because of the shortness, the time that was at my disposal, I didn't make it clear enough, it's pragmatic to pass this law now and not later if it makes sense. So, once a curricula reform and the whole concept of education in Croatia is adopted, it would be logical, after that, to pass a law like this, as an excerpt from that. But since it's about the money that needs to be used, then it makes sense that it was brought before that, so it was my finding. And secondly, as far as the competence centres are concerned, of course, no one is against the centres of competence or against these powers mentioned here. The question is just the difference between what's written and what's possible. So if you have any good wishes, it's great, is it possible to perform with an instrumentation that's available here, that's my question?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71805	Education Minister Blaženko Divjak will address the final statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71806	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The message is professional education is as important as general high school education and it should be in the law and we must treat general education and vocational education equally. And I would dare say that at this point in view of demographic issues and given the needs of the economy, reforming vocational education is a priority. The education of teachers and mentors is crucial because any reform either passes or fails, succeeds or fails at whether teachers, whether mentors, schools are ready to implement such a reform. I am sure that these amendments and additions to the laws we talked about today, I thank you all for your constructive discussion and remarks, are such as to provide us with a good basis for such a reform. The education of teachers and mentors is crucial and it is located and is prescribed also by the roof law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, but also in this Law and is particularly apostrophealed as one of the important activities of the centres of competence, since cooperation contracts allow it. Of course, we also have instruments and ways of education that do not depend on centres of competence, means that they are regularly conducted, regularly conducted by competent agencies, but will now allow teachers and mentors to be perfected with employers. There have been a lot of issues related to 5 areas that are particularly apostrophe for this first period for which we have funds in European funds, related to regional competence centres. However, it should be pointed out that these 5 areas are not prescribed by the Law, but these 5 areas have been negotiated for the period 2014-2020, and of course we have the opportunity to set up different priorities for the next period 2020-2027. and to launch competence centres in other areas, as well as in construction, which has been repeatedly highlighted as an example of an area where a lot of professional competent workforce needs to be regularly released or which should actually be the output result of the work of vocational schools. There were also questions about the network of competence centres, i.e. how such a network will be formed and what parameters it will be. I have to say that the law makes it clear that the criteria for the implementation of the competence centres are really going to be prescribed by the network. The ministry already has one large collection of parameters, results, analysis, animations that show that certain parameters affect the network, and are also still working in a way to reduce the set of parameters in order to get guidelines that are very clear, and that are certainly linked to the spatial layout of these centres, regional representation, regional development, means a link to regional strategies, but also, where needs are shown. Needs for spatial conditions, material conditions, humane conditions and that this is actually possible through further development of competence centres. We are also talking about the optimal number of centres with regard to the number of participants, the number of vocational education institutions and what is most important, the needs of the labour market, and there we really expect a great contribution and the founders to recognize it. It means that they are well-reading the needs, that they are sure that their proposals are in line with the network to be developed, which will soon be presented publicly and that they are really in line with the real needs in certain areas and with the development strategies of individual counties. What I would like to point out, however, is that this law does not only apply to the exploitation of EU funds. That's not true. The EU funds are an important incentive and an important basis for us to be able to well equip the first 20 centres of competence, but this is not the most important reason for these amendments and the additions to the Law to be passed. Because a billion kuna, as much as it looks like a lot of money, will not solve problems and will certainly not solve all the problems and what needs to be pointed out that it will need to increase the budget. So, budgets especially for vocational education, but in this context, of course, for education and science in general, and I am counting on the support of the Croatian Parliament and encourages today's debate where a large number of you have recognised that the centres of competence of development of vocational education cannot and is not exclusively on the funds coming from the EU funds. It should also be pointed out that competence centres must give a plan that shows that they can raise the level of self-sustainability over a certain period of time because there is one easy environment, and that is that the centres of competence will be the current school. So the current schools are financed from the state budget, from decentralised funds. These funds that the founders have already increased depending on it in at least two ways from two instruments. So, with a different, one change of laws, and also by increasing funds for decentralised functions, which we already have this year. However, we must not forget that self-sustainability still needs to be achieved through a certain period, meaning that in addition to those basic activities that have schools and which are financed by what is directly from the state budget, which through the founder, through the decentralised means, that certainly this link with employers and services that appear on the market, they must certainly generate income from the centre of competence, otherwise we have missed what actually competence centres are because if we move this development segment and connection to the market, then it is still only about vocational schools. And it is very important that this self-sustainability be highlighted even though, as I said, funding from the budget and directly from the state budget or through the founder is something that guarantees us that those basic activities and one first layer of upgrade will certainly not be financed. Of course, there are funds from other EU funds for other aspects of vocational education, for the promotion of vocational education, for the production of curricula, for school equipment, so not all are included in the centres of competence, it is also important to feel and also to plan for the next period. The curriculative reform of vocational education, of course, contains this change in the paradigm of education, which is now based on competences and not on content and which includes significantly learning based on work. And it is certainly the most important component of the reform of vocational education and it goes parallel to the curricular reform of general education that has not touched, or, to a lesser extent, it has covered this part of vocational education, but as I said, we in the ministry are still working on this segment of vocational education, so that since autumn, we have experimental implementation of curricula reform, we have a part of experimental implementation of vocational education. Some of you have noticed, I agree, that it is very important, as soon as possible, to clearly develop the model of dual education, means the Croatian model of dual education, which takes into account all these positive experiences, the Austrian, German, Swiss model, but which also takes into account the current needs of the economy and what are the current opportunities, that the economy, that employers finance that part of the teaching, when the student is both a worker and is actually at the employer's disposal for a certain time. So we really need to get this right to make sure that this dual education model, for a particular profession, can actually achieve the results that are expected with the right. Of course, the system, education must be continuously improved and flexible. This also allows us the instruments of the Croatian qualification framework at all levels. I have to say that all sectoral councils have been established, that members of the sector council have been educated, and now I have little sense of who to talk to myself, so if. Here, I won't be long, I'm really not going to use these 30 minutes, here's another few minutes, so here you are, I've been listening very carefully, thank you. So these instruments of the Croatian qualification framework, through these standards of interest, allow flexible, means flexibility and continuous improvements. Because when you change your standard of profession, you can change the standard of qualifications and then, based on that and the professional programs or programs in higher education, means, study programs. And in that sense, I'm going to need one more part of it, to simplify the procedure, to get new standards of interest faster, we're working on it together with the Ministry of Labour. The registration quotas are part of this package, which allow for rapid changes in the registration quotas that must follow the needs. It certainly needs to be harmonised in a way that in vocational education, means in secondary education, where important founders participate, that they assume their share of responsibility. And in higher education, of course, it's not the package we're talking about right now, but it's the programming contracts that will allow us to show our needs very clearly and as a state we function in a way that we can, with higher education, especially with universities, negotiate what needs are and how they will be financed further. There were still some questions from some MPs, which are not presently available, so I don't know if it should be answered in terms of less time, but I will stress that lifelong learning is certainly part of the activity of the centre of competence, but it should also be taken into account that lifelong learning and improvement is not reserved for academic institutions, academic skills, but that the change in mode of work, change in rapid change in technology, certainly affecting the continued need to be trained and actually have one two-way communication. Because in the centres of competence, except we have a transfer of technology and knowledge to employers is worth the opposite. Because today we have a situation that in economic operators means development or level of technology certainly greater than in schools, and we must in some way take advantage of this possibility of dialogue and cooperation within the centres of competence, so that we can also make it possible for all of our lives to learn, that is, training and certainly not reserved for academic institutions alone. Credit points are also needed for mobility, European recommendations and debates, here I have participated in the Council of Ministers, where I have debated myself in this regard, particularly, that mobility at European level should be such as to include vocational schools, professional curricula, that it is not as often thought about us, only for higher education or for general education. Quality control, quality assurance, the role of all agencies and centres should also be used in this regard. About the basic ideas, I am sure, from this debate we have agreement in the Parliament, we have agreement in the public, but now there is an implementation, of course I hope and I believe you will give support to these amendments and additions to the laws. However, there is now a requirement for the participation of all stakeholders but also for taking responsibility for where we are taking part, means ministries, states, founders, schools, teachers and also the Croatian Assembly for the provision of additional budgetary resources so as not to speak exclusively and base our work on European and development on European funds, as this certainly is not sustainable. In this sense, we visit all the counties, we talk, we enter every school, we talk to the founders, we talk to the principals, we also provide technical assistance to prepare these projects for the centres of competence, to make sure that the technical reasons will not be the ones that make it impossible for quality... prevent us from getting quality applications and using all the funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's all being done parallel to that you can be convinced of. There have been some other comments in the debate that I will not look back on, because a number of non-the subject-related alternative facts have been said on purpose or out of ignorance, and I am now really not going to burden this final word with references to such things. Finally, I invite all of you respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to support the amendments and complement the Law on Professional Education, which is certainly the basis for a quality reform of vocational education and which provides a future for our children. This is a demographic measure. And to look back at the representative Panenic who spoke about the economy, this is certainly also the basis for us to give the economy a certain impulse especially in this area where we need a quality professional workforce, which comes from vocational education but not just to get quality workers, but to help our students who end up in vocational education develop both competences and initiative, entrepreneurship that means they can also be self-employed and that they can be innovative, creative, thus not only meet the needs of the labour market but also develop the labour market and economy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71807	I thank the Minister's savage. Representative Milorad Batinic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71808	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers when you talk about centres of competence, it is also in political life that I have a feeling of the greatest attention, as well as of certain mayors who obviously have not qualified or read the law that you are growing what it means, how, how the network will be determined, who will determine the network. And they've already ultimatically demanded that certain schools, professional ones, be their centres of competence. And now listening to all the criteria that could be needed, it primarily refers to the sustainability of the system, not for a short time, while it has European money but long-term. As far as I'm concerned, it won't even be possible in the long term. Now, without politics, there is no educational reform, there is no law. Whether and in what way it is possible to educate certain mayors who are on behalf of the founders, to direct them, to further educate them, or to think that it is enough to talk to them to explain to them which schools can go professional to centres of competence and which they do not. Mostly because in the area of the Varazdin County it is mainly about engineering, electrical engineering where in existing schools there are centres of excellence and centres of competence only can be upgrades, means added value to the existing and the school he prefers from, that I would not be misunderstood from something below average wants to be done for the reason why you see the possibility of absorbing money for some fictitious purpose of someone. What are the Ministry's instruments in that section?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71809	Thank you, Minister Divjak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71810	Thank you very much. I agree that an important dialogue, that it is important to exchange information, is equally important to be aware that we will get and provide assistance in preparing projects, so that is what the ministry is already doing, means consultations, materials, very clear, I will say guidelines on how they will be evaluated, those applications that come in, how the network is made. However, every mayor, every founder needs schools, should really take responsibility to make his proposal, not only qualityly made on the technical side so that he can use two funds, be careful it is not easy because we use the Regional Development Fund, which is mainly focused on the development of infrastructure and the Fund for, so the European Social Fund, where we talk more about improving human capacities or potential, means not only that but should be linked to the strategy, means developing a particular county. It should also be made clear what these labour market needs are, which are contracts with employers, which are employers who show a very specific interest in participating in the work of the centre of competence. Not only do they participate in the way they use services but they contribute to the development of such a centre. And any ultimatums, in this case I think they're counterproductive, what we all have to bear in mind is that this law is here to give our children a future in Croatia. And I also think that none of us have that comfort, that luxury, whether it's the minister, whether it's the MPs, whether it's the mayors or not, that because of our caps, we don't secure what I said. It means quality vocational education, competence centres that will be relevant for a particular county and a wider region, and in that sense I appeal to all of us to act that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71811	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar, reporting for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71812	Mrs. Divjak, statistics from Croatian education are frightening. This year, i.e. last year, only 317 thousand students were enrolled in primary school. Those numbers speak more than any word. And unfortunately, you are part of a government that does not solve problems in Croatia, which does nothing to keep young people leaving but on the contrary, people with PhDs are fired and others who most often have very modest education are employed in state institutions, pushing them into the highest places, even we had a plumber case placed as a library director, your second member, or member of HNS Blazekovic with high school is pushed as a consul in New York. And precisely because of your behavior, your party and your coalition partners, people lose faith in education, they lose faith in that it makes sense to try when they see what are actually the only criteria for success and staffing. Unfortunately, by participating in this government, you support such a policy, you participate in such a policy actively, and you do nothing really to change things. On your conscience and on your soul, I believe that, or I'm sure the voters will recognize it when the next elections are and I say, tear down all rights, remove the fees for transportation, means that I can no longer go to work with my vehicle, although you know that bus schedule does not necessarily match the teacher's captain, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71813	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71814	I think I'm really doing a good job with my participation in the government. I'm doing a job that's related to science and education, and I think the results are visible. This bill is also a kind of demographic measure, and I've explained it before, so now I'm not going to repeat why. I will also say that people who are doctoral, young people who are doctoral at our universities, within our institutes, as well as their colleagues who are in Europe and in the world can stay working on these institutes or can work in an economy and that is the usual practice in Western European countries. So we have to develop a system that's not only focused on having a reproduction using a PhD in science in colleges, in institutions, but that there's a transfer of knowledge and technology that goes into the economy, that's very important. That's a very important point. And I'm still going to say just so many days to stay in the air, there's no charges for transportation being lifted, using a basic collective contract even enhanced that system, therefore, teachers, teachers, teachers can still use public transport, they can use a personal vehicle, they can use all those ways as they've used right now. The only thing that was done was to raise compensation per mile for those that under conditions were acquired from the TKU using a personal vehicle. So I would say that we have to stay away from the alternative facts than we have to check things out and I, as Minister of Science and Education, really stand up for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71815	Thank you. Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71816	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear Minister Divjak. Of course, we support this law and thank God that after 20 years someone remembered that vocational schools supported it. However, one thing I wanted to say as an employer, you know and now... through your exposure you said that the employer should finance something standing, okay, all of it can be, it was once done, but now there are some other times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Employers simply don't have enough money to single out for those children, of course, what everyone would like to give. Now imagine a small town where there are 20 waiters or chefs, in that small town where practice should be done somewhere. You don't have that many restaurants, you don't have that many electricians, no matter, you don't have a chance to put these kids into practice. If someone takes five cooks into their restaurant he has to spend money on those students. My suggestion is that the state supports and gives that money to stimulate the student and that the employer is the one who can't, doesn't pay, let him have a contract with them not to pay because everyone won't be able to pay. Of course, if the employer can, will certainly pay, it would be the most polite, the best, but make sure they're the employers they want but can't. And that the state should jump in, even though my proposal would be to reward those professional schools and parents in the end, to send children to such schools because we are missing both masters and electricians and locksmiths and carpenters and all crafts, we will find it hard to get them because there are fewer young people but to keep them and to send them to those schools, you have to stimulate even their parents to train them that they will be and to continue working with these employers. But we know that small employers in most cases are in crisis and that's why you're making the crash accounts that the state co-finances if the employer can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71817	Thank you. Secretary Divjak's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71818	Thank you very much for giving me one more chance to explain it, so we have three different models. So one is this model of teaching where a student spends at school, a part of the employer's and the other all models include school equipment, and these competence centers are just as well established to ensure quality, practical teaching, learning based on work. Laboratorys, high-class kitchens, so other ways and other types of equipment and equipment that we are sure will allow students to actually acquire this practical knowledge and skills within the schools, within these centers. That's why it went to this concept and I'm looking forward to you recognising that something that should certainly be supported. And the Croatian model of dual education, it is something we will soon present and we will consider what you are saying because... is also information that we get from employers, that not all employers are able to support it equally and therefore we have these three models. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71819	Representative Tomislav Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71820	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I also loved your link between what I said and the proposals you adopt, and I would agree exactly in this direction, so that education is particularly professional, practical education is crucial to making a shift and by looking at only the quotas of workers from other countries that we approve, it is in fact that most come from something that should be trained in Croatia. I would only cite one example from the terrain which in the town of Vukovar, the Borovo factory, one shoe centre, the way that now some recent events happened unfortunately negatively that they have a lack of labour, precisely workers who should work on sewing and other jobs. And then it happens that actually one employer of Activ Shoes HX more famous they close the drive and eventually two companies, one part of these workers take themselves. Actually, there's no offer on the labour market. And it's something that happens that really one center that could not only have been industrial, that has its own history but that it could also be a strong educational one. There's no even interest in that school, we don't have ready young children, actually at that point children, later to be workers who would work for those salaries. And then we get to the paradox where we have the unemployed at the institutions, on the other hand we have needs for the labour market. And if we try to solve this exclusively through the approval of work permits, then definitely this whole logic that you represent, which some advanced ones are, I would say school principals have already adopted. For example, a good example is the Middle Agricultural School of the Ship, which such a practice was made. It's actually something that sometimes shows you shouldn't even have a concrete legal solution, but it can be an initiative. So I'd like to say hello and hope for the success of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71821	Thank you. A reply to the replica of Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71822	Thank you. What you've said actually shows that these systems of ours are complex and complex everywhere in the world. One law cannot solve all problems, but legal bases must be. They must be such that they allow flexibility, growth and development. There are a whole series of laws that we also need to adapt, but first of all, I would say that we must finally be constructive at all levels and in some way establish trust between schools, employers, founders, states and all of us have to work on it together. So I'm looking forward to having a very constructive debate here in the Parliament today, mostly. And all that you've said we've written down and we're going to try to work in a way to establish that belief, to use our resources to a purposely extent, to continue to develop the system, and on your support, I'm counting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71823	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71824	We are now going to the final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Professional Education, the Second Reading of P.Z.E. Number 250, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and Croatian representative Zekanovic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is Branka Ramljak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71825	Don't mind me. [[/Attack Jandroković: is the first amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, if you accept it, you do not need to explain it. Please turn it on..]] The Honorable President and the Honorable Representatives and MPs. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71826	Then he becomes an integral part of the law. And you have another amendment. It is the amendment of MP Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71827	As far as this next amendment is concerned, it is about changing the curriculum's pronunciation into a curriculum, but I must say that the amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education are based clearly on all the legal regulations, on the other regulations that currently exist in the Republic and there is a curricula everywhere. Therefore, the term curricula should be used, and therefore we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71828	A colleague of Zekanovic's, the obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71829	I think the argument is ridiculous, at least. Otherwise, in Art. 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says: In the Republic of Croatia the laws must be in accordance with the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states "In the official use of the Croatian language and Latin script." Croatian Institute of Language, HAZU, hundreds of Croatian linguists have suggested or said only to use the term "kurikul" rather than the term "kurikulum". Otherwise, to be clear, the Croatian language is a teacher's manual but the Latin version that can and can be used in Croatian is a curicula. We've had the opportunity to change the Law on Professional Education, I'll see to every law where we see this or any other language error and I find this inadmissible especially because it's about the Ministry of Education that should be taken care of to use the standard Croatian language everywhere and not just in the laws, and in the law I would say, primarily. I therefore request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71830	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Education, please let us vote. I find that most votes, 105 votes for and 10 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71831	The next item on the agenda is the Final Proposal for a Law on Geodetic Activity, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 169. Agent Nikola Grmoy, here you go. We follow the debate, now I will repeat it: - Final proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 169. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Daniel Meštric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71833	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. In 2008, an important law on geodetic activity was adopted with its amendments in 2011 and 2013. You can see that it's been over ten years since the law is in force. We know that many things have changed in those ten years from the information systems from the catastrian measurements themselves, and there is justifiable reason for you to find a new Law on the conduct of geodetic activity. The proposed law, which was developed by the State Geodetic Administration, regulates the conduct of geodetic activity and expert geodetic affairs and association in the Chamber of Authorised Geodetic Engineers, which means a fundamental structure, a detour, public authority and membership in the Chamber. In addition to the general provisions of the proposed law, the proposed law contains provisions which are developed on professional geodetic tasks affecting the quality of official state records in the area for the management and maintenance of real estate and land cadastres, as well as professional geodetic work for technical and other needs. The proposed law lays down responsible persons and associates who, under certain conditions, may carry out expert geodetic activities. The responsibilities and obligations of liability insurance, organisational forms of the conduct of expert geodetic activities are also prescribed, the consent to carry out expert geodetic work by the State Geodetic Authority is prescribed. The issue of the rights of foreign persons performing geodetic work in the field of the Republic of Croatia is also addressed, the issue of expert examination and professional training is defined as well as the provisions in association with the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers and, of course, the supervision of law enforcement and the infringement provisions. The proposed law removes certain administrative barriers contained in the applicable law and aligns them with the legislative solutions of the EU Member States. Directive 2005/36 EC has been adopted means the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and Directive 2006/123 EC means the Services Directive on the internal market. The proposed law prescribes conditions which must be met by authorised geodesy engineers, as well as by association in their joint offices and legal persons registered for the performance of expert geodetic tasks, which ensure the control of expertise, the execution of expert geodetic tasks, and which are carried out by the State Geodetic Administration through the system of granting consent to carry out expert geodetic activities and through the powers for which the professional chamber is competent. The proposed law complies with the relevant EU rules in the context of the harmonisation of rules for foreign persons who are free to carry out tasks under the same conditions as legal persons established in the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. Compared to the text in the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the Final Proposal for the Law was completed in a legal and nomotechnical sense and there were no major changes. In addition to the above, the applicant has developed certain provisions for better understanding and clarity and in a way that the prescribed technical surveillance service is more clearly prescribed, the provision of technical surveillance over the cadastrian measurement and the design of the elaborate is more clearly prescribed, the adoption of a general chamber act that regulates the issue of recognition of foreign professional qualifications and rules for the free provision of services on a temporary and occasional basis, and the amendments to the provisions relating to the termination of membership in the chamber of the authorised geodesy engineer in the event of retirement. Here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71834	I thank the Secretary of State. Anka's representative Mrak-Taritash answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71835	Thank you very much. I would actually just ask the promoter about the provision of an article. In 49, 2nd century, therefore, what was a dispute on the committees and what we discussed when the Law came in the second reading, it was not in the first reading, therefore, it was in the second reading, that the height of the membership fee and fees for... ,, members of the chamber with prior consent from the State Geodetic Administration. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the only chamber that will have such a single provision, I warn that neither the chamber of architects nor other engineers in the construction industry are present. The answer of the secretary of state at the time was that there were other arrangements, negotiations, or anything else. If it stays this way, we will give one amendment there, and I just want to know if there have been any discussions in the meantime and whether the Government may in that sense go alone with the amendment to this bill because it would not be good if there were one-one chamber that would have that provision, and other chambers do not. Well, here's the answer, so that we don't give amendments right now and maybe we don't get exhausted here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71837	I'm thanking you. That's a good point. We have also received an amendment from the GLAS Club, meaning from your club of representatives, but also by the same, in fact very similar, in fact the same context, we have received both from the HDZ Club and from the Club of Representatives of the HNS, so that the government will certainly discuss it, so we will make a decision on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71838	Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first reported with Representative Branko BACIC. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, assistant minister, respected director of the state geodetic administration. The HDZ Club, as well as in its first reading, will support the final proposal for a law on geodetic activity. As the State Secretary said in the introduction, the Law has been in force for 10 years, it has been changed twice in the meantime, and given the changes resulting from the adoption of the law itself, and the fact that a European directive, which practically equalises the rights of foreign companies doing business in the Republic and companies whose business is in the Republic of Croatia, had to be approached by amendments to the law, and since this is the third amendment and that a significant number of articles is changed, it is perfectly acceptable to go with the new Law Proposal. What this Law regulates is a way of performing geodetic activity, professional affairs, work, basic structure, public authority and membership in the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Engineers. Although I was going to say something about it in the end, my colleague Taritash mentioned earlier, so we, together with the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, also suggested that membership fees be paid in the Chamber of Geodesy Engineers be defined by the Chamber itself without the consent of the state geodetic administration. This is completely understandable, acceptable, justified not only because the Chamber is indeed an independent institution, an professional organisation made up of authorised geodesy engineers on the one hand, but also on the other hand, which in a certain way would be unfair, unfair to that Chamber in view of the regulations and method of determining membership fees for other professional chambers covering these, I would say technical professions in the Republic of Croatia. What is also very important to point out by this law is that in fact this final bill is very little changed compared to the first reading, except in what we have given the amendment, so I hope we will vote that in a way to return to the solutions from the first reading, but it has been practically completed in that technical sense and there is no such big change. As the Secretary of State has pointed out, here are two important things, namely that the law prescribes geodetic jobs that are in the function of making new geodetic measurements, making, or maintaining real estate cadastres, that is, the needs of businesses that contribute to the maintenance and production of state records, in the first place, a clear catalogue of real estate on the one hand, and on the other hand, are prescribed geodetic jobs, a way of doing jobs that are more technical and which serve in construction. Those who serve for all other needs other than construction when they have to do something about it, arrange the geodetics. Many times in this home, I said that geodetic jobs performed by authorised geodetic engineers should be prescribed with laws defining geodetic activity. If prescribing certain transactions is not a place in this Act, then it is certainly a place to determine how the form and all the components of a specific geodetic laboratory or geodetic product should, in my opinion, be in the Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real estate. In the first row, I am talking about a geodetic project that is set out in the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction, which refers to the need to design a geodetic project, but until the end of the field, neither to the authorised engineers of geodesy, nor to interpret the exposition of state geodetic administrations in our county centers, it is not defined to the end what the geodetic project contains and how it occurs, which are its constituents and what it has to say. Many times I've also said that she's become special... a basis that, in my opinion, where and where better, a better and better quality geodetic product, which provided complete information on the cadastrian particle and all of those objects and all of what was happening on the ground, complete information was in that product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's the best thing that a geodetic could give to a particular designer, a certain other state body, that is, a state body, an institution, when it comes to the records of objects and particles themselves, on the one hand, when it comes to building buildings, any infrastructure, any housing, business etc. So I keep that in this law that would very quickly, I don't know, why but the government, that is, the Resort Ministry and the state geodetic administration are waiting, I think in this law that has been announced, the Law on State Measurement... Real estate should be prescribed everything that defines that product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it will continue to be geodetic, or a project, or it will be a geodetic background, on the trail of what it used to be, it is less important to me and the formulation is much more important to what it contains and it must be unanimous, uniformly defined, in order not to create one disagreement on the ground between the project being done in Slavonski Brod, Dubrovnik, Zagreb, Pula, etc., etc. and how all the stations across Croatia would react equally to this geodetic project or background. And when we talk about the Law on State Measurement of Real estate, I will repeat, that it would be good for this law to be followed by one dynamic of the execution of geodetic measurement and cataster of real estate in Croatia. In Croatia, about 3500 catastrian municipalities were registered somewhere, of 3500 catastrian municipalities of all of them 3%, respectively, 10% of them were made, respectively, joined to make geodetic measurements about 300, slightly more than 300, 350 catastrian municipalities, and out of 10% of them only 3% and 100 municipalities had a new geodetic measurement and a new land book based on it. We know what a cadastre means, which means the record of a real estate catastra, we know what grantovnica records mean, i.e., land books, these are 2 per se, fundamental, most important, state records, which in 2018 in a well-organised democratic state should be, practically, the face of state administration's behaviour. And we can say that, therefore, of the 3,500 catastrian municipalities, only 100 may have more arranged land books and real estate cadastres. And when I talk about this data, then I would just mention a few things that are important and what additional argument to go into the creation of a cadastra and a land book, the fact that in a particular catastrian municipality, in which a cadastre and a land book was arranged, very quickly, after that, the decline of disputes, in terms of property legal relations, in terms of establishing borders, etc. etc. It's dropping somewhere to 1-3%. So how much is it to save people, by the very fact that their disputes in court, property law, come down from 100 to 2 or 3, 4 cases, you can think of what kind of savings it is. Not to say that the units of local self-government, the new geodetic measurement and the new real estate cadastre are increasing revenue from municipal fees, given that there are records, all the objects on which the municipal compensation is paid, so once the analysis that was made for these 100-ths of the Catastrian municipalities determines that local self-government units have up to 5 times the income from the municipal fee, but on average, almost twice increased. Not to say, in these 100-thousand catastrian municipalities, more than 1000 new objects have been recorded, and the average value of these facilities is about 50,000 euros, so it's about 50 million euros, practically new funds that can be used in economic development through a mortgage that can be taken over, in order to clearly launch some kind of craft, some kind of activity, etc., etc. So it is unnecessary to explain at all what a new cadastar scale and a new land book means. Not to say, that the obstacle to a huge number of investments in Croatia is precisely an unsettled property legal situation in the cataster and the land book. In order for a country to be more acceptable, tempting, friendly to investors, except for a regulated tax system, it seems to me that this is practical and with the existence of spatial planning documentation, this is, in my opinion, a fundamental reason and a criterion that can boost investment. I therefore think that the Resort Ministry, the state geodetic administration, should, as soon as possible, with the Law on Geodetic Change of Real Estates, which, by law, is very important, should simplify the exposure and formation after the technical part of the production of the land book. It's supposed to be a simplified procedure, it's been going on for years now inappropriately. It comes into the situation that when virtually information is given to the land book, the data is geodetically measured, after 10 years, unscheduled, and then the job loses its meaning. Therefore, it is necessary to move quickly with a law that will simplify only the exposure and establishment of the catastra, i.e. firstly the establishment of a land book. So that's something we expect from that law, I say, today we're in 2018. What was worth 50 years ago, 60 years ago is no longer valid, today a simple request from and given the possibilities of electronic data processing, faster data distribution, we must respond with the new law and with it as soon as possible come here to the Croatian Parliament. So, we at the club, the HDZ agent, will support the adoption of this law, he's cornered. The technical nature and there are no obstacles, other than what we have suggested that the amendment be adopted, but what we expect from this ministry and from the government, it is to join the Assembly as soon as possible with the proposal of the Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71840	Agent Kleman called in a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, here are some of the problems you saw in the law itself. I'd like to ask you a question, given your great experience in this business. You know that in Croatia we have one commendable institute and it is called the Institute of Construction. So, the units of local self-government are the ones that I can give to the institute, that institute through a public tender. An investor in some way helps to achieve his entrepreneurial ventures. So we have a situation on the ground that you after winning the competition and after building some facility at the Institute of Construction Rights. If he's clean there's no problem, but if he's mixed nature, so private and therefore property units of local self-government. After building the facility you are obliged to an object if it is business nature to obtain a useful permit, and you cannot do so without enrolling in the land book. Land books, or Geodesic administration, insists that the facility be on one particle. And now the question is, how are you going to fix the merger of particles of different legal status? So, mixed private with a local self-government unit or state. That's one big problem. You can come into a situation to create an object of five, six, ten million kunas or euros and end up getting into a particle merger problem and that you can't get a useful permit and simply make it impossible for the investor to start working. You know for a fact that local self-government units are very sensitive, so citizens for land sales, and that institute is just moving away from itself, some sort of impression that it's convenient or not suitable, but that it's given for a certain number of years. And I think it's a good institute. But with solutions like this we have today practically In some situations it is impossible to complete the project until the end. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71842	Replica response, MP Bačić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right. So here I have the opportunity to jump to this solution in which on a particular building particle there is a double regime on one side of private ownership, and on the other side of the lease concession or building rights. So it can happen, it happens on not that very common case but it happens. There are two possibilities. The first possibility is that what I don't normally accept, which is that the newly built object that extends across both particles is divided, so one part has its own number that is privately owned, and the other part, in the regime of the relationship between the owners and investors, was the right to build. I am more inclined, I must say that I am not allowed to form a single particle through a land book and through a cadastre and that on it through sheet B or sheet C where the property relationship is defined by ownership over that object as in a particular object there is an essential property, as there is twenty, one hundred owners can thus be found in the same way by me and there should be this way that these facilities define that there is both the owner and the person, i.e. the investor who has the right to build. And there is a certain fear in view of the existing legislation, and then it did not come out there to find the possibility that investors should not be prevented from giving an appreciable authorisation because, clearly, if no use is issued, it is not possible to return everything that has been invested in that facility. So there are two possibilities. I'm more prone to this other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71844	Representative Glass's club, HSU, called for a hearing. In their name will be a representative of Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71845	... Assistant Minister and Director of the State Geodetic Administration. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So we have in the second reading the bill. In his first reading, GLAS also voted in favour of this bill, i.e. he voted positively, and we will also support this law in the second reading. And it's really about one technical law. In the discussion of this law, I would actually open three topics. One topic is a job that's a geodetic job. The second topic is the situation with the cathedral and the grantovnica, and the third topic is actually what it means to work in chambers. This law is, we call it technical law. He was the most reluctance within the profession because the State Geodetic Administration was talking to the Chamber and there were a series at one point even disagreement. But when they reached agreement and all that, then it went further. When it comes to geodetic expertise, then really tools and ways change, and you can't look at the state of the cataster, nor the state of the garland in Croatia without looking into history. In historical when you look, so in the catastrophe we have two catastrophes on which we bond. One is the Australian-Hungarian cadastre for this mainland part of Croatia and so I say this part by the sea which was an Italian cadastre that even led in different ways. At a time when Croatia was part of Yugoslavia and when there was one another in general, the arrangement and the relationship and everything else, then people did not register their condition in the grants. We forgot all about the garter. The changes were recorded in the catastro. That's why the cadastre was in possession. The result of all that was actually a mess because of other things that you have really different conditions in the cataster, different conditions in the garter even when the property is well recorded. This law opens up a number of other topics and a series of other dilemmas. The first topic is what counterpart Bačić mentioned, and this is the topic of the catastrophe and the setting up of the gruntovnica. In Croatia, I think about when he said that 3% of the measurements were made and that they were new, I think there is little though there is about 5% of those measurements, but at one point I calculated how many years it would take if it were done at this rate, in order for Croatia to adequately solve it myself at some 218 years if it were done at this pace. Croatia has about 5.5% to 6% of the land under buildings built, when we speak built then we also think about buildings, but we mean the infrastructure that is recorded. And what the effort would be, with really a colleague, Bacic having this committee as ruling to say little about what the ministry should be doing, I do not have that committee, but I think that the effort that should be working in the next period should go in the next direction. First and basic that we try really to get to the real state and records and coordinate the cadastre and grantovnica for the construction area and this should be a priority for a simple reason because it is always both topics and purchases and investment topics. Secondly, when it comes to investment and when we know who they are, then they absolutely have to go priority because not a small number of times we just got in trouble. I always like to tell some stories here because then in reality, they tell a lot more what we really have. When did the airport go to Dr. Franjo Tuđman issuing local permits, colleague Meštrić air-conditioned because he participated in this, issuing local permits, issuing building permits and then was an old scale of cadastre and was in a certain way defined both cadastral particles, numbers and even a cadastrian municipality. In a desire to make that investment, and we all wanted that investment to go, and there was no obstacle to a new measure, a new Catastrian municipality, new cadastrian particles, and now you have to call new owners, and when you call new owners, it turns out that they were one of the old ones, one after the new ones. So that's the nature of the example, and that's exactly the example of how it shouldn't work. This means if we prepare an investment, prepare an investment in a way that can take care of the cadastre, take care of the grantovnica and align each other. Now the key question is how? Since our cadastre was working in a way that was always seen even when we were shopping, the situation in the catastrophe was seen because we had forgotten for a while that there would be a catastrophe behind the 1990s, and what was in the catastrophe was irrelevant, and what was in the grantovnica. And the real truth is when you compare each other. I'm sure, but I don't have a colleague named Bacic to say do it, but let's get all the heads on the pile and see what you can do best. I'm sure it should be one project, that there should be one procedure, because what's absolutely exhausting us is exhausting us. That you have one procedure in the catastro, and then another procedure in the garnery. Absolutely to be a priority in construction areas and beyond that to be a priority and individual investment and to try to do the job. Not a small number of times drive Croatia, look at the tables and then write you a board in the process of a new cadastral measurement and then when you see your date on the table you see 2004, 2006, 2010, 2012. For a while, colleagues who conducted the procedure in the garter did not go out in the field, did not participate because they were asked to be paid additionally, which was absolute and understandable, but there was no means to pay them and it was not done. All of you driving together see what the facts are, life didn't stop because someone didn't do the job the way it is. When you make a measurement and if you don't spend it in the right time things change, they change in the field. So this law will support us, this law actually speaks about what geodetic jobs are, it talks about the chamber and it talks about the participation of foreigners in our territory, but of course always and as far as it is concerned and when you mention g from geodetics or k from catasters there are topics that we are discussing from these speakers that are much larger topics and which point to the fact that we have to do so. Now, if we're talking, we need five years, ten years, and we haven't done anything, then we're in one big problem. And if we want to make a step in terms of investment, it won't help us either the new Strategic Investments Act or the new Investment Law, we need to give investors the hand of friendship or the hand of security that they know when the investments are coming that this story that I purposely told about the airport is not going to happen. Francis Tudjman. In this law a fairly large part speaks of the chamber, talking about how the chamber will be established, how the chamber works even though the geodetic chamber would absolutely have for some time and it is always convenient to know what the role and importance of the chamber is. The role and importance of the chamber is to protect the investor from obtaining a possible project or potential basis that is not needed, but to somehow protect the profession. And then there was a process where Croatia became a member of the EU, and then the basic theme of all EU members is the flow of goods and services, and then it tells you that what it is worth on the domestic market is worth when it comes out. And not to be a bigger stepmom to our own people, to give them the conditions and criteria that are absolutely so determined for them, so strong that when they go outside they can't be competitive. And that's why this amendment was, so in our first reading, we didn't have that State Geodetic Administration would give consent to the height of membership in the chamber. Between the first and second readings, there was this one change, and it would absolutely be unacceptable, if I didn't say, we often call on some constitutional categories to be and one single chamber speak from the field of construction that would have that provision. And I'm sure even a colleague at the State Geodetic Authority isn't. It's the most important job to determine. I think there are much, much more important jobs, so I hope that this amendment will accept and make life easier for all of us as such. We're going to this law, we're going to support it in first reading, and in first reading, we're going to talk very affirmatively about the law the way I'm talking right now. It's about one technical law, it's about a law that, of course, built into it and all the things that are related to EU directives. The law which applies to the work related to the chamber. However, it also speaks about what is considered a geodetic business, which is considered in certain phases of these transactions. I would agree with him, although Bačić's colleagues disagreed with him, so it doesn't matter if something is called a geodetic project or if it's called a special geodetic background it's much more important what happens next. A geodetic project in the sense that it was meant to do one harmonisation well, and I don't think there's any need for four years to call in one way, four years in another way. Let's try calling all the time, 'cause we're all used to it all the time. What is important is that it really be the same geodetic project in the whole of Croatia, not that one does the geodetic project in one way, the other. But you don't need to change the law for that. This is all you need to take into account and coordinate practice and a little more supervision and the work of the catastra, and so perhaps a little more tribin and round tables and educate the geodetics and use the chamber for this education and to make sure that the chamber controls that all the members of the chamber are doing the same geodetic project. And that's the role of the chamber and that the prices are about to be even in such a way as to protect the waist itself, but that's how investors are protected against the profession, and that's what it would be. I'd always advocate let's try not to change the titles for a while. But let's try to make this geodetic project make sense, that this geodetic project is being implemented later. What we had and what our colleagues do at the State Geodetic Administration know well. Grounds were made, geodetic bases but they remained in the process of issuing local permits, in the process of issuing building permits, and were never the basis for any changes and alignment in the catastro. And that's something to do. So the point is that the elaborate we're doing, which is now called a geodetic project, and it's good to keep it that way, that it has its implementing character, that we finally see its results in the catastrophe. And for the end of this debate, I'm there, and now there's 15 years of that, and I've been to an education in Scandinavian countries, and then there's actually how, what does it mean, that all the stages of building an object are recorded? And at the end when the object is finished before the used permit in the catastrus that follows it all the time through the course of the geodeth, the cadastre is all networked together you in the cadastre have not only a drawn object, but you have a drawn complete and underground and underground infrastructure and so ends the story with your useful permission. That's possible. That's possible because we use tools today, we use machines today, we use technologies today. So we have satellites that really in real time record all the changes. So that's possible. But it's just to be desired, it's to be desired. I'm one of those who's always had the dream of having an empty table, because if you have an empty table, that means it's all working. If you have a full table of paper, it means that nothing works and that you're a brake. I wish they were in the catastrus, to clean up all those historical layers and the specific geodetic bases that we have there recorded and the measurements that we've been doing in the context of legalization, and really when we see the situation, that the situation that's on the ground and the situation that's on the catastrophe corresponds to each other. Today when you take an island, then when you look at the real state and when you see the catastre, all of a sudden your houses are in the sea, and the island of course with its houses is somewhere else. But it will be the subject of another law, of another story. We at the Voice and HSU club will support and we will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71846	I thank the representatives of the Dark Taritash. The SDSS representative's club called for a hearing. In their name will be said representative Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I welcome this law as one step forward as far as geodetic professions are concerned. It seems to me that the geodetic profession has come to an agreement and decided in fact which direction it's going to take. The law harmonizes with EU directives concerning the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, and the harmonisation of rules relating to geodetic affairs. We must have that part that concerns the recognition of foreign, therefore, qualifications. Foreigners can come now, or we must enable them to come and do geodetic work. However, some of the solutions in this law we have decided to protect those jobs that are tied up just as geodetic business for state affairs that someone else can't do to us what I think is quite right. But something else is that I am troubled here, and so were colleagues before me and colleagues Mrak-Taritash and colleagues Bačić, and even in the first reading of this law, which is that today's land books are not consistent with the cathedral and in terms of the number of particles, in terms of construction, in terms of the surface, in terms of shapes, and therefore both of them are not in line with the real state. It is a common known fact that is actually spread in the Republic of Croatia, particularly in Dalmatia. When we take an example, we recently passed the Agricultural Land Act, and we were just aware that the land would also be leased in private, and aware that the titler of ownership and state in the cataster and land books was not resolved. The adoption process also includes the Law on the municipal economy, and we are also aware of the discrepancies of the data on which we charge, for example, municipal compensation, etc., etc. We could set countless examples that are important and important to us, and also to the various systems of incentives to report projects to European funds, all of which actually relate to the resolved land and book situation, the situation in the cataster, and we don't really have that. The catastre itself draws its roots to the 19th century Austrian law, over 50% of the cadastrian plans were made before 1918. The former state, as we know, did not care much about land books, so it did not pass any regulation that regulated the matter but was in practice followed by the Law on Land Books of 1929. This led to the fact that in practice, we developed a tradition of off-book transfers, hence the right of ownership or any other right with a natural person, therefore, between citizens, and that it was not included in the cadastre or in the land books. It has often happened, purely for prosaic reasons that people simply tried to exclude themselves from the record of catasters and enrollment in land books in order to obtain the right to a child’s allowance. The Republic of Croatia soon set out to find out social property after democratic changes became the owner of a very large number of properties by law, and the legislation began to register itself as the owner. And we now have the consequence that the State's Attorney's Office has been quick for 15 years trying to enroll the Republic of Croatia as owner of land books. So according to DORH data from the latest report submitted to the Croatian Parliament from early 2009 to 31 December 2016, the Republic of Croatia was registered to a million and 122 thousand ZK particles in land books, we said, the Republic of Croatia signed in. However, when a country is listed in land books, it does not see what the situation is like in the cataster. The DORH shall identify the land-booking particle on which the universal property, for example, or social property, is entered and shall submit a proposal for the entry under the law. What's going on? The court accepts it, writes, but the catastrous may have recorded a natural person built a house, a building, but it is not taken into account, and in fact this enrolment is an adjudicating of the cadastrian state. The question needs to be asked, is it a good practice because sooner or later we will have to do that harmonisation. The fact is that a good part of the citizens had somehow suffered from this practice, that the citizens were buying from cities and municipalities of the land on which their houses were located, believing that the municipality or city owned because those houses were on the construction zone, however, it turned out to be in '91. It wasn't a construction zone, it was a agricultural land and it owned the Republic of Croatia. And now, for example, we also have this law in the procedure, the Law on State Property Management, which seeks to resolve that injustice. All of this creates one legal uncertainty and confusion, and we personally feel that as a state and as a society, we have not taken ourselves well enough and seriously in solving this problem, and I think that we could actually reach a consensus on this matter because we are all warning about it. It's not about any ideological question, there's no division there, it's a practical problem hanging over everyone's head, there may be none of the MPs if not personally that someone in the family doesn't have any land that doesn't have this problem. We as a state should have some kind of action plan, form either an agency like the Legalisation Agency or pass a special law that will try to resolve this situation. The state has to find and design mechanisms, not only to sign up to land books as the owner, I think it's actually the easiest thing, but to really start solving the problems of land books and cadastres, the measurements and what's in state property, and to find mechanisms to help the citizens in what way we need to discuss it here. But the government should also propose, so in any way help citizens motivate them and help any subsidies, aids, in any other way to move towards resolving property-legal relations on their land and as regards cadastras and land books and parcels, if necessary because citizens resent these procedures primarily fearing costs. They're afraid of court costs and court, but actually there's a court and court costs are there's a minor problem, there's a bigger problem exactly geodetic costs. The geodetic costs are high, the geodetic cost when it comes out, and the citizen may finance that parcel that is most important to him and most valuable to him, may parcele where his house is, perhaps it will parcele where his most valuable olive grove is being processed, but it will not parcele, it will not go 20, 30, 40 plots because it simply does not pay off. So, we, or my main message, are to begin to really think about how and that the state in collaboration with citizens and citizens themselves but still in a way that the state can help them to start solving their property legal relations so that their cost of geodetics is not in that sense an obstacle. I have personally dealt with this problem for a long time, I have warned of this problem in some previous discussions. I even suggested this, and it came into the government's programme in the government's operational programmes for national minorities, so the catastrian measurement and resolution of this problem, not because I had in mind only to help minorities solve this problem but to help all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, we have also proposed on behalf of the SDSS Club the amendment that has been tabled at the Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land to municipalities and cities design programmes to subsidise citizens to address these problems. Passive side observation and warning of this problem will not solve this problem because even in the first reading today, we have heard that the consistency of catasters and land books does not exceed 5% of the particles, and then this means that we will not solve this problem for the next 100 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71848	I thank Representative Milosevic. Representative Davor Lončar reported on the individual debate. He's gone. We continue for also individual participation in the debate, said MP Mato Čičak. Since there is no representative of Chick, he loses his word. The final statement will be addressed by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr. Daniel Mestric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71849	... Here I begin by thanking you for a good debate about this law, I see that we have agreed more or less that this is although the law is of a technical nature that is good, quality, and also thanks to the State Geodetic Administration for preparing it. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But why is it good? He's good because everyone's happy. The engineers are happy, the public is satisfied, the chambers are satisfied, and I think we've made a good product. Today, however, the debate also took place in the direction of another law, the Law of State Measurement and the Catastro. I also thank you for an excellent debate on excellent remarks, suggestions from Mr. Bačić, from Mrs. Anne Mrak-Taritash. As far as Franjo Tudjman Airport is concerned, I remember very well, it's a project that's actually almost gone, and it was tied to the cadastre because we wanted only the best, we wanted a new measure, and we got into a legal discrepancies. But here's thank God we got it all out. There's a useful license. Also on the geodetic project, I certainly agree to keep that name, but to bring its purpose in line and to bring the practice in the field of the Republic of Croatia into line. And also an excellent proposal to measure within the construction area's borders, that's a good proposal. And finally, what's most important is a simplified exposure to these geodetic measurements being good and very quickly done, and not to wait for some exposure for three, five years because if we wait five years of exposure, the situation has changed significantly. Here's the short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71850	I thank the Secretary of State. This concludes the debate, we'll vote when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71851	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 169, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and the HNS Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats, the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club and Marin Škibola. I would like to ask the esteemed Daniel Meštric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to be shown about the amendments submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71852	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71853	First amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the Croatian Liberal Democrats' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71854	The Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71855	And it becomes an integral part of the law. Now we're going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives... You don't hear well. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's talk louder. Now it's the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71856	The amendment of the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71857	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Now, I ask you to be aware of the amendment of Agent Marina Scybol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71858	The amendment is not accepted. On the grounds that Article 102, in the chapter of the Transitional and Final Provisions, is set out in Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The final proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity shall continue to be carried out by expert geodetics after the entry into force of this law and the points referred to in the amendment will be resolved by sublegal acts and as provided for in the future law of Article 40(9).
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71859	I'm asking my colleague Schibol to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71860	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. By entering into force of the final proposal of this law, existing trainees, candidates who meet the conditions under the new law and who do not comply with them under the current exercise practice programme with the way they are implemented. It was the intensity of the amendment, but since you said it would be dealt with by sublaw, I'm not asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71861	You're not asking for a vote, thank you very much. Then I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, please vote. I find that with most votes, 114 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against we passed the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71862	The following point is: - Final proposal for a Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 239. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Željko Kraljičko State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71863	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Assembly MP and the gentlemen of the Assembly. The final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the EU wood and wood transport Regulation shall ensure the implementation of EU regulations which are designed to prevent the placing on the internal market of illegally cut wood and wood products. The final proposal of the Law shall be fully prescribed, by the tasks of the competent authorities, by means of the professional supervision carried out by the State officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, by means of inspection supervision carried out by authorised customs officers in accordance with the regulations governing the handling of the Customs Administration. Infringements and the level of fines for individual infringements which are proportionate to the value of a particular shipment of wood and wood products by tax losses and economic damage which may result from the implementation of this law. In relation to the text of the draft law which was in the first reading and in the final draft of the law, certain differences arised as a result of respecting the observations, proposals and opinions of the Committee, the parties’ clubs and representatives. Mr Damir Felak's proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives was accepted to replace the order of the first and second objectives of this law in Article 3. In view of the observations adopted, the proposals and opinions contained in the text of the final draft law, provisions have been developed which prescribe the way in which expert supervision is carried out in such a way that a legal remedy is prescribed against the minutes of the corrective action imposed, i.e. the possibility of making comments to the minutes which have been imposed on corrective measures. Provisions have been developed to prescribe the manner in which inspection supervision is carried out in such a way that, instead of authorised customs officials, customs administrations are prescribed as an authorised prosecutor issuing a criminal order or submitting an indictment. Infringement provisions have also been arranged in such a way that the deleted items whose provisions do not constitute an infringement, or a new item which is prescribed for additional infringements has been added. The latter, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submits a final proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products which will ensure adequate supervision of imports, transport and trade of wood and products throughout the chain of supply from the place of cutting, or sources through production to the end of the consumer, in order to reduce illegal cutting to the minimum possible extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71864	I thank the Secretary of State. Would the committee's reporters like to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, MP Miro Bulj applied. He's gone, so he's losing his argument. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Damir Felak reported. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71865	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and fellow parliamentary representatives. Well, as the name of the law itself says, it harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, more specifically ensuring that several EU provisions are implemented. The general objective of this law and these EU regulations is to prevent the placing on the market of illegally cut wood or products originating from illegally cut wood. More specifically, the objectives are set out in point 3 of this law. This legislative proposal lays down the competent authorities, the conduct of those bodies, the professional and inspection supervision and the non-implementation provisions of those EU regulations which are not fully governed by the applicable EU law on the implementation of the trade in illegally visited wood and products of such wood from 2013. The competent authorities for the implementation of the regulations referred to in Article 2 of this Act shall be the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the affairs of the wood industry, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central Authority of the State shall be responsible for the affairs of finance, the Customs Administration. Article 6 of the Law provides for a series of tasks of the Ministry and the Customs Administration to start from the verification and acceptance of flash licences, expert supervision, verification of the system of the necessary attention, verification and fulfilment of the traceability of traders in the supply chain, until, until, until the report has been made. The Office shall carry out expert supervision as provided for in Article 7 and the inspection supervision of authorised customs officers as prescribed in Article 8. Articles 9 and 10 shall determine the infringements. Since this is the final draft of the law, I welcome the adoption of certain remarks that have little progress in the original draft law. The proposer himself has also made certain technical changes to which the law is improving. I use this opportunity to invite the competent authorities to increased traffic control by wood and wood-made products not only of imported wood but mostly of wood from our forests, because for many years there is a particularly long history of uncontrollable memory and placing on the market of wood, resales of wood material, and there is a reselling of wood from state forests where wood is sold for personal use, and further reselling to customers. And as a rule, that tree is exported to other countries. There is damage to the state budget itself, because certain taxes are not paid and damages are also happening to the forest fund that will need to be renewed in that part. So I call for as consistent law enforcement as possible and as much control as possible. I think with these two numbered ministries there would certainly have to be included in the Ministry of the Interior and I think that it could then be done in a quality way and largely prevent these anomalies that are happening today. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71866	On behalf of the SDP representative for the speaker club should be approached by representative Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71867	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The interest is not great for this law, it shows when we make laws under EU directives that we no longer have any objections. As you can see before us, the final proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products delivered to us by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 8 February. The law is how I and I have said compliance with EU legislation and the wood transport and wood products system in the Republic of Croatia is regulated and it prevents illegally visited wood from being placed on the internal market. Finally, the proposal for this law adopted some suggestions presented in the debate in the first reading and much better quality regulated supervision and infringement provisions in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the law in the implementation of the EU regulation. Since there's really not much to say. I just need to repeat the objectives of this law in the hope that they will come true. The first objective is to ensure that economic operators apply the due diligence system to minimise the placing on the market of illegally visited wood or products originating from illegally visited wood. The second objective is to ensure that the imports of wood and products produced from wood raw materials which have been lawfully visited or of wood raw material imported into a partner country in accordance with the national legislation of that country. And thirdly ensure that traders in the entire supply chain apply a system of wood traceability and wood products. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71868	Representative Tomislav Liposčak has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71869	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, the aim of this law that is before us is actually to ensure the import of wood and wood products in accordance with the national laws of all those countries in which it has been visited. It is also fully prescribed by the tasks of the competent authorities and the way in which inspection supervision is carried out. In fact, the tendency to consciousness is illegal cutting to the least possible extent and through surveillance actually ensures traceability from the place itself to the end of the user. And we all agree here, we saw it already in the debate in the first reading that the bill is good and that we all support it. However, in the debate in the first reading, there have also been several problems with the vision that are particularly often mentioned in this House of Commons, and in a direct or perhaps even more indirect way, they relate to the transport of wood, wood products, or to the very management of forests. First of all, it is an illegal memory, and I would especially stress the illegal cutting in private forests, in the forests of forest owners, since that part in that segment of the state forest is relatively well arranged with of course always fewer anomalies present. It is estimated that between 700,000 and 800,000 cubic metres of wood are cut from private forests annually. However, what is reported, i.e. what is legally shown, is only between 150 000 and 200 000 cc's, which is between 20 and 25%. The problem is particularly escalating in those areas that are less or less populated, which unfortunately have been evicted. And here I would stress the particular problem of illegal cutting not in terms of not having certain necessary documentation, but of illegal cutting in terms of theft, entering into other people's property, as I said especially in those areas where we don't have such a densely populated population. I would also underline one important thing for me, which is that the forest or forest resource is extremely valuable and that we all care about it and that people are very often very sensitive to it. That is why this area, unfortunately very fertile soil, more and more frequent and growing population and obtaining cheap political points in this account, is therefore going to the extent that even seduced by this rhetoric and individual leaders and units of local and regional self-government are calling the wrong system from the Croatian forests to the road destroyer and the like. What I would like to stress is that yes, we must say the roads are being damaged under the burden and that is an undeniable fact. However, we forget that all legal persons who sell products from the exploitation of wood pay a forest contribution. The forest contribution is three and a half percent, i.e. five percent, in assisted areas and in areas of special state concern. And what is important is that the forest contribution paid to the units, the units of local self-government, should be used for the purpose of maintaining these roads and these roads. Whether we use it correctly is now for all of us in local self-government units to investigate, or correct it. Of course, these funds are not enough for complete maintenance, but let us not forget that this system is not only made up of Croatian forests, neither privates nor carriers. It is actually one whole niche of related activities, which according to Croatian wood cluster data makes up more than 53,000 jobs for forest-bound industries. We also talk about those who participate directly and in cutting and making themselves, but also those who deal with both transport and sawmills, sawmills to finalists and the like. And that is why it is essential that in such particularly rural areas, all together take care of all this, because very often in these areas we do not have, nor do we have any other industry other than the wood industry. And that is why, and for the sake of this above, I will repeat the question I asked, and in the first reading of this law, is whether the Ministry and the Customs Administration have enough people for the quality of the implementation of this regulation, namely this law, and not only for imports of wood and products from third countries, from countries outside the EU, but especially for export control. Namely, so often mentioned and wood quotas, wood assorts are very clear and well defined through the decision on the ways and conditions of selling wooden assorts of Croatian forests. And yes, let's say that here loudly he favors the finalists, because it's all in our interest that this wooden range gets as much extra value as possible, especially when that tree is exported, it goes beyond the limits of our beautiful. What matters very much to me is exactly that export control. It's precisely because we don't want to be on paper exporting chairs and furniture and the rest of the wooden gallantry, and in the nature of going out the sawed-out structure or let's say it like that a simple wooden range. In the end, a brief review of the forest contribution pursuant to Article 65 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Forests, as an entity that sells products and exploits forests and in the past 2017 paid more than 52 million kunas at the expense of a local self-government unit that should be used to resuscitate both roads and roads and who are similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71870	Thank you, Agent Liposchak. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71871	Let's move on now, the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 239, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, please let us vote. I find that that law has been passed unanimously with 119 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71872	The next item is - Final draft law supplementing the Law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts, public contributions by insurance companies, second reading, P.Z. No. 236. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71873	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives and MPs. The final proposal for a law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of data on receipts, public contributions by insurance companies is before us. An important law of 2013 introduced the so-called JOPPD form, hence a unique template for the pooled collection and delivery of data on receipts and contributions by insurance companies where data is normally collected by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration and REGOS, so the Central Insurance Register. However, for the obligations created before the entry into force of this law, it is necessary to enable the collection of data through the forms in force at that time of the obligation, which are the forms of RS and RSM for which it still exists and should continue to exist without a time limit of the possibility of meeting them in order to give the bonds the opportunity to fulfil their legal obligation in the previous period, and, consequently, the funds already paid to the contribution of the second pillar of pension insurance standing on the provisional account for the inability to deploy and connect to personal accounts could be linked to the responsibilities. In the circumstances where the obligor has paid a compulsory contribution and has not submitted the RS or RSM REGOS forms, he cannot then link the unrelated payments and forward the funds to personal accounts, which for the direct consequence has the retention of the funds in a temporary account which is administered by the Central Insurance Register. A part of the debtor who has not submitted forms of RS or RSM has ceased to exist, but part of them is still active and is realistic for them to expect that they will subsequently submit those forms. It should also be pointed out that REGOS had its additional activities aimed at directly contacting the accounting and payment of mandatory contributions by sending information notices on the existence of unrelated payments on the name of the contribution and the need to submit the data prompted a significant response of the obligor to the subsequent submission by law of the prescribed data relating to earlier periods and thus managed to reduce the number of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account. It should also be noted that the proposed law supplementing the data for old obligations on old forms will allow for further reduction in the number of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account. In addition, the text of the final draft law does not differ from the text of the draft law which was adopted after the debate in the Croatian Parliament in December 2017. In order to implement this law, no additional funding is necessary in the Republic of Croatia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71874	I would like to thank Secretary of State Buric. Would the committee's reporters like to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The MOST advocates' club is giving up the debate. The HDZ advocates' club also applied for the debate. In their name will be the representative Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, for the honor of the Secretary of State with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the law of this one long name, but fortunately without much, only two articles are actually added and in fact it is a provision that allows the bonds of accounting and payment of contributions for compulsory insurance that, within an unlimited period, means they can meet their obligations permanently through previously established channels of reception of data and software solutions, means RS and RSM forms, and to submit legally prescribed data by insurance companies, and to meet their previously unfulfilled legal obligations. The applicable law of 1.1.2014 introduced a new form, so-called JOP pattern for pooled collection and delivery of data per reception and provision by insurance companies. It is unique and in it are, on it collected tax administration and REGOS each for their own purposes. However, the pre-engagement obligations, which relate to the time from 2002 to 2013, need to be determined by the lists that previously regulated the collection of data to enable the collection of data through these forms valid at the time of the start of the obligation, in an unlimited manner so that the bonds can meet at any time their legal obligation relating to the earlier period. The part of the taxpayer is still active and is expected to subsequently submit forms of RS and RSM. The proposed addition of the law allowing the submission of data for old obligations in old forms will allow further reduction of the number of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account. In the circumstances where the obligor has paid a compulsory contribution and has failed to submit forms of RS and RSM, REGOS cannot link unrelated payments and forward them to personal accounts and retain them in the provisional account, thereby reducing the amount of funds in the personal account and ultimately reducing the amount of pension from the base of compulsory pension insurance to the basis of individual capitalised savings. What is also important, that consultation with the interested public was conducted, that there were no objections or respect, and here, I think this is a law that could have gone according to the emergency procedure and that it would have been unanimously accepted, so we as the HDZ Club will also support this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71876	The vote, HSU Club of Representatives, called for a debate, will be spoken on behalf of legislator Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71877	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know, I intend to speak for 15 minutes, I don't know what to say about this law for 15 minutes, because there's an article and a law and a transitional and final provision, so it's a legal law, an implementing law, which gives the possibility of sorting out funds in passing accounts, in extended time, that payment bonds are not persons here, but legal persons, delivery filled out forms, that the funds can be allocated to citizens' personal accounts according to their mandatory pension funds. So it's a typical technical law. I will not repeat the mistake made by my colleague Mrsic or by my colleague Karlic now that I will call. I said that I would never again call as a representative, that something goes according to emergency procedure because our rule is to push the laws into two procedures, but the government, or, in two readings, but the government could take responsibility, when it comes to such technical laws, save paper, time and do it in one reading. And that's a fundamental observation that we lost a few months of time without that being the case. Therefore, we have nothing else to say but that we will vote for a proposal to amend and supplement this law. And I say the Voice and HSU Club supports and will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71878	The SDP representative club also reported for the debate, MP Miranda Mrsic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71879	Respect, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is already what, I mean the second debate about this law, which is a technical law, which would allow REGOS to work better, but quite certainly that the extension of the deadline for application through RSM forms will not solve the basic problem that is in this law, which is that a large number of funds are collected in that account, therefore, a large amount of funds that should be transferred to the accounts of all of us who have a second pension column as soon as possible. The law itself will not change, what should change in REGOS, which is the philosophy of REGOS to be a service to citizens, not just a mere flow water heater, which on one side of the funds enters, he distributes them and sends them somewhere else. And what REGOS should be, should be the real service of citizens, who have a second pension pillar, in turn, I mean the part that is related to financial literacy, because a very small number of citizens themselves determine in which pension society will therefore have their own payments. And most of it goes with some automation, that is, with the fact that in the end, the REGOS will channel itself towards individual pension societies. What is good, in previous amendments to the law, is that provision that said that part of the unscheduled funds, when REGOS sets out to go towards that pension society that has the largest number, therefore, is proportionally the largest number of members. So that's settled, and now it's going to be arranged equally, all with the goal, that all pension societies, that is, pension funds are strengthened with as many members as possible, and not that we only have one, a pension fund that has one large number of members, and then the other three have fewer. We will follow the implementation of this law, but I say, the basic thing is that the law itself will not solve the problem, that the funds will accumulate in that account, but that can be resolved by a better organisation of REGOS and a change in the philosophy of REGOS so that REGOS becomes a part of the service of citizens. We'll support this bill, the SDP will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71880	Representative Silvano Hrelja, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71881	Dear fellow Mrsic, I am sorry that you did not, because this lost her in a more expensive debate and on amendments to the REGOS law and amendments to the law on compulsory pension funds. I'm sorry you didn't take part in that, exactly, and you probably should have helped those who defended those changes in relation to the sketches of some of our colleagues who were destructive to the second pension column, so I'm sorry you weren't here because I know your attitudes. But, just these laws, here for the Assembly speaker, were discussed about the possible second role of the REGOS and the need for insurance companies to really put them, to give them enough time to decide and not to have someone classify them as mandatory pension funds without them, to get to know financially the basics of the functioning of mandatory pension funds and to start thinking in some way, which fund is better, which gives more contributions and that they eventually decide, rather than decide REGOS instead. I didn't want to do anything here, but I'm just sorry that you didn't take part in such a debate, because I think with your experience and ministerial experience you needed that day here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71882	Replica response, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71883	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrelja, that I was not at that session because I had some other things to do, so I listened carefully to the synogram of that session, and I'm really sorry that certain colleagues don't realize that around the pension system it's important to have a consensus, and I think we're close to consensus, that the pension system as it should be developed further and it's a national issue, it's no longer a question of either party or anyone else, but apparently some colleagues who are somewhere next to you and behind you think that they can get political points, because they think that citizens will sort of take part in it, but then the bill of collection comes to those young people who are just now entering the labour market, or those who, in 20, 30, 40 years from now, get a pension. It is absolutely certain that the system needs to be further developed and that we need to increase the isolation of the second pension pillar, but clearly we need to correct the injustices in the first pension column, so I am sorry that tomorrow there will be a law on the pension, that the government has not found the hearing that this law supports because at this point the government does not know in what way 20 people who receive a pension of 500 kuna less than the same fellow who went into retirement 2016 because you do not know how to resolve the 27% pension allowance issue. But in any case, here is this next point, which is therefore, to solve the home of pensioners where the government has also found no hearing to support this one opposition law that basically goes for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71884	Thank you. The final statement will be taken by State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71885	Thank you. So, first of all, thanks for a focused and concrete debate. I would like to emphasise that we had a package of laws concerning REGOS that strengthen the REGOS institution itself, which are just before and pointed out. Therefore, the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the REGOS Act and this Collection Act, which all contribute, inter alia, to strengthening the REGOS institution and resolving the issue of temporary financial resources in the provisional account. On 26.02.2018, payments that could not be linked to debts were 29.4.36.689,12, and what is important is that payments from 01.01.2014 to date, that they have 57.75% in the whole share, which means that this is actually proof that the funds are starting to accumulate on the provisional account right after the introduction of the JOPPD form. And on the basis of this perceived problem, we are in fact solving the problem not only with this Law, but also with the aforementioned laws. With regard to the provisional account, it should also be said that in 2017 896 thousand requests came about removing funds from the provisional account, when 300 million kunas of funds were downloaded, however, it should also be kept in mind that this temporary account itself is very alive and that he is working and now and that he is working on a daily basis and the funds that were today morning were as I mentioned earlier, now very likely are not. In addition, I would also like to mention the notice we discussed when we talked about the REGOS Act, i.e. information for all new employees, notice of the need for elections, or the duty of the pension fund. The notice's in preparation and she's ready for further communication. In addition, the REGOS itself communicates with bonds and via and Newsletters, i.e. through networks, so you can find insight into the state of unrelated payments of compulsory pension insurance of the second pillar and the form of JOPPD, i.e. RS or RSM forms where you are detailed, i.e. where the obligor is led in detail over 5-6 steps in which to properly fill out these forms. And it is necessary once again to really appeal to all the debtors that they are truly very, very precisely meeting this pattern, since even one of the smallest mistakes can lead to the fact that the funds remain in the temporary account, and indeed none of the obligors or REGOS are in the interest of our pensions. Here it is, thank you again, and I want to say that the government knows that it will solve the 27% pension allowance. It will address it comprehensively within the pension reform planned in the second quarter of 2018 in terms of the procedure for the government. So, I don't think there's anyone to be intimidated and spread fear and panic about 27%. This is a very serious problem that needs to be seriously approached and solved in an adequate and sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71886	Representative Mrsic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71887	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to pick up, but really after these words from the secretary of state, I have to smile when it's said comprehensively. Then it sounds so big, and you don't really know how you're going to solve it, and you can see it. Because if you knew, then we'd settle it 27%. Obviously, it doesn't care about these 20 people who now have a pension of 500 kunas less than they would have. You don't care because it's not about thousands, 2000, 3000 kuna. So it's completely something that is discriminatory to these people and looking very coldly bureaucratic, which I care about for 20 people to receive less, we'll eventually solve it comprehensively. It's not a speech by someone who's a state official who's been elected there to serve the people, so the minister means serving the people, ministers, and you're a secretary of state, so you serve the people. You can't say that you're going to solve it in the second quarter because you don't have any advice right now, and you don't have a frame to look like you'd already seen it and you'd already refer to it. So, 27% of your retirement allowance didn't solve how you're going to solve it, I don't know, but it's completely inhumane to say that it's something that you're going to solve which is a whole lot, and that at the same time you have 20 people who have that 500 kuna house. It's easy to have all the salaries that are the way they are, but someone who has 3.5 or 3.5 thousand kunas around them have a pension, if they have 500 kuna less, it's very much. So don't say you're solving it, but go ahead and take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71888	Thank you. The reply to the replica, State Secretary Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71889	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr. Gristle, I wish this time were not put in my mouth words I never said. So I said in the presentation what the government is doing, the government knows what it's doing, and besides, you mentioned 20 people, there are 17 that only one and that one important, that 11 and 11 are important. So once again, I'm asking nicely not to put words in my mouth because I didn't say that, and I don't mean that. We are very sensitive to such problems, the government solves them and the government knows how to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71890	This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71891	Final proposal of the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of data on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, second reading, P.Z. No. 236, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I'm voting on that law, please let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 110 for and 1 abstentions, have passed the law supplementing the Law on collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of information on receipts and public contributions by insurance companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71892	The following point is: - Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2016. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 25. The Free Zone Act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Mario Antonić State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71893	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia presents a report to the Croatian Parliament on the business of free zones of the Republic of Croatia in 2016, the fifth in a row of the report, following a joint report for 2011 and 2012 and the individual annual 2013, 2014 and 2015. This free zone report is also structured in a way as well as reports for previous years and contains a picture of the legislative framework for the establishment and operation of free zones in Croatia. Although in 2016 there were no amendments to the legislative framework for the wholeness of the report itself, the current framework for the business of free zones was briefly explained. As regards the business data itself, unlike previous reports, in which the emphasis on the data presentation was compared to the previous business period in the light of the review of the aggregated data at the level of the entire free zone system, this report contains a view of the business data for each free area separately for the period 2012 to 2016. In 2016, 12 free zones were operated in the Republic of Croatia, of which 8 land and 4 ports of free zone. They are in Vukovar, Osijek, Varazdin, Krapina, Zagreb, Kukuljanovo, Škrljevo and Split, and ports in Pula, Rijeka, Split and Pločam. Compared to 2015, there were no changes in the number of free zones as well as any other changes affecting the change in the area of free zones. In 2016, a total of 115 users operated in the free zones, that the number of users decreased by 16% compared to 2015, 7492 workers were employed in the free zones, and in 2015. 7739. Free zone users averaged 65 workers or 8 workers more than in the previous period. However, if we exclude users of the largest free zone of Varazdin from a total of 4480 employees because of Bomark, who owns over 3500 employees, the average useful free zones employ 26 workers, which is less than in the previous period and thus belongs to small entrepreneurs. The main financial indicators of users of free zones in 2016 are the following, the total income achieved by users is 4.76 billion kuna or 14.5% less than the year before. At the level of all free zones, a profit of €37.35 million was achieved while a loss of more than € 109 million was achieved in the previous period. The share of exports in total free zone income was 73.6% or 5.2% higher than in 2015. ... including the delivery of goods on the EU market and free zones amounted to 3.5 billion kuna, which is 8% less than in 2015. Further development of free zones should be seen in the context of other options available to concessionaries and users of free zones, in particular the possibility of using support in accordance with the applicable Investment Encouragement Act. We would certainly like to point out this opportunity to register within the free zones some of the legal forms of entrepreneurial infrastructure, which would allow for the use of all the benefits that are related to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. Entrepreneurial infrastructure entities in the Republic of Croatia are increasingly opening up opportunities to use participation in competitions for funding from the European Regional Development Fund, such as tender for infrastructure development in entrepreneurship... in the value of 640 million kuna, a tender for infrastructure development in entrepreneurship zones worth 76 million kuna and a tender for the provision of high-quality services for small and medium-sized enterprises through a business... institution worth 22,8 million kuna. [[/The speaker reads too fast, he doesn't understand.]] As regards the termination of the business of the Varazdin free zone at the end of 2016, I consider it important here to point out that the termination of the concession for the establishment of the free zone does not stop and economic activity in the area, but it takes place on business terms as well as other business areas in the Republic of Croatia and that further scope of economic activity depends primarily on the businesses themselves operating in the area. I recall that the request for exit from the free zone business regime was submitted on behalf of all users of the Varazdin free zone who took a unique position that they were in the economic interest to continue their business outside the free zone regime after the possibility of ending the possibility of using tax exemptions on 31 December 2016. Each entrepreneur assesses his own economic interest and makes a decision on business within or outside that zone. The customs tax aspects of operations within the free zone of customs procedures applicable to the entry, that is, the exit of goods, vehicles and persons from free zones and the orientation of entrepreneurs to third markets in this decision play a crucial role. It is often assumed that the abolition of the concession for the establishment of a free zone, i.e. leaving the free zone regime, is a particular consequence of inadequate treatment and concessionaires for the establishment of a free zone by a legislative or executive authority, while the abolition of the concession for the establishment of a free zone is essentially a tool for users of a free zone, so entrepreneurs and also property owners, which are within the scope of free zones, rationalise their operating costs and improve their business environment. The government of the Republic of Croatia in the economic interest of concessionaires for free zones and users of free zones proposes the adoption of the 2016 Free Zone Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71894	I thank the Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take his word? He's gone. Then I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives, yes, i.e. the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, their representative Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71895	Dear fellow MPs, fellow MPs, here we have heard the secretary of state, he has read this report comprehensively and submitted to us what it contains. I will briefly just look back at what I think is one of the characteristics and specificities of the Republic of Croatia, so in that legal sense but also the operational sense of what is happening in the area of these industrial zones. And what's contained in this report, in any case, is something that's special to our country. So we in the Republic of Croatia have 12 free zones by 2017. To compare how it is in Europe, let's say Germany has only 2 business zones throughout it, Greece 4, Italy also 2, Malta 1, Portugal 1, Estonia 3, Great Britain doesn't even have one. So what am I saying? 2000 and '96. The year, '97. the years when legislative frameworks started and related to the establishment of free zones in the area of the Republic of Croatia certainly made sense. However, over time and here in the last year, and in this report only the requirement of business entities in the area of the Varazdin Free Zone which, in this sense and in this report, is one of the strongest such business zones with the largest number of business entities, with the largest number of employees in the area and the industrial zone, i.e. the free zone, its unisoned position of all business entities in the area and the zones that have asked for their free zone status to be removed because of their easier and simpler operations now in the EU frameworks, I think it is sufficient to say in which direction we should consider in the next period. So what's good in this report and for the first time since we've witnessed that so far reports have been filed even 2, 3 years late, this is for the first time that we've received a quality, comprehensive report on the business of all free zones in the Republic of Croatia, like, in that way, practically a year for the year it was. So all of this data can be collected and we have one bright view of how to operate within these business zones, investment investments, everything that's happened in that space so that we can have one good guideline and a guideline of how this problem should be addressed. So for those who have not engaged in these operations within the business zone themselves, business zones are special territory of the Republic of Croatia, which must be specially fenced, which has certain business modes defined in advance by the laws. And what is important and, among other things, one of the reasons for the exit of Varazdin from the free zone regime is what the law gave users of these free zones, therefore tax reliefs and tax payments that were in force until 31 December 2016, also used by users who made initial investments in free zones worth more than one million kuna and did not use the upper limit of the permitted investment aid intensity as prescribed, when the valid map is prescribed, prescribed by the valid regional support map. And in this section, if we go to compare zones, we can also talk about something that should certainly be taken into account, which is the justification for opening or giving concessions of free zones in certain areas and for certain types of activities. So we have an example of a free area of Rijeka-Skrljevo port, so they made a request in 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia then approved, the zone started to operate and at that point they could not use this at that time valid support because the law had expired, however, investment investments, the investment cycle in line with the Rijeka port business plan alone in the last year alone generated investments worth nearly 300 million kuna, which speaks enough about how much each business entity thinks about itself further its development strategy, the way of business, and only determines its market in the space it will operate. So, if we look at this report where and where the goods of the area of these free zones were placed, we see that the vast majority of our economic operators that were operating in the free zones of their goods placed on the market exactly the EU and thus this model that had played a role in that time since '99, 2000, until the entry into the EU, it certainly made sense. Exports to countries of the so-called The third non-EU world appears in certain free zones, it is also visible in this report, so it is one of the indicators in which we should go. The area of free zones in the report itself is also seen, they range from several hundred thousand square meters to just a few tens of thousands of square meters from one or two business entities to the situation as it was recently in Varazdin where there were 4 000 and 4 480 workers, respectively, where there were 16 users, unlike the one available in the zone in Škrlje, where there was only one user. So, I don't see any reason and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this report, it's complete, it's well prepared and I reiterated that urgency compared to the previous reports is definitely a report which was submitted for, for example, 2013, and was submitted in 2015, practically after so much time, it didn't even make sense to discuss it. This is one report which provides sufficient data in both figures, in financial terms, in that part of the number of job openings and the benefits of economic operators, so that such reports can be one good basis. There is certainly something that should be pointed out here that the ministry has never, as far as I have information served, been some kind of criminal provision that has been prescribed to me by 75 000 kunas even if the user of the free zone has never supplied such data, such measures have never been used before, in any case the data may sometimes be unsupervised but in any case timely delivery and I think this report is acceptable in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71896	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric, for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague, you mentioned the specificity of the Republic of Croatia in the free zones that we have 12 founded unlike the others. You yourself said that it was our specificity but that it was a good specificity because at that point, these free zones were really free zones and you yourself mentioned the example of Varazdin that investments were really important and that many jobs were open. In that period of 10 years, these entrepreneurs have received numerous benefits, there have been tax reliefs, however, there have been a number of other benefits, that they have had within that customs facility, that there have been many things made out of infrastructure, that are really close to the main highway routes, and that is what we are now in the situation that we are in the EU, that the situation is no longer what it was in 2006, but there is still this example of Varazdin, there is an example of Rijeka. And my question is whether you think that the other 10 or 3 ports and 7 zones in the interior will go the same way or that they will move into entrepreneurship zones and take advantage of all these advantages primarily of infrastructure that is really good and the equipment of these zones, and other benefits that they have still remained and are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71898	I thank my esteemed colleague, Goddess Macar. Answer, colleague Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71899	Dear colleagues, if you have followed all my discussions so far, in any case what I always say and always say that the business zone of thinking is exactly the one that has been until recently and with free zones, something that has certainly opened the door for Croatia in that economic sense. Most of the work related to the construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure because the fact is that the free zone of Varazdin was at the time when these benefits could be used, it was practically rising and its expansion built sufficient entrepreneurial infrastructure. And what the secretary of state pointed out, I always point out, once you open one such business zone, no economic operator who went there to do business, worked in this free zone regime, and at this point they still act, they estimate that their business model is better now in the business zone regime and they do so. I believe that in these 12 free zones across the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and that is why I pointed out that particular feature of Croatia that we have, unlike Germany, 12 and 2 business zones and leaving the Varazdine area of the free zone, shows what will happen in the future. So it will be crystallized, I believe the areas that are related to port activities and, for example, ours down in the Primorje-Gorski County of Rijeka, probably down Ploče, perhaps something here at Zagreb. And I think it's going to be one optimal number of those zones. All the other 12 zones if they turn, disappear, exit from the free zone regime we have practically lost nothing if the economic operators continue to do business in them, these more and more of these zones continue to expand and adapt to the new European market that we now have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71900	I thank my colleague Klaric for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Mario Antonic, for the reasons of this report. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71901	Report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2016, the applicant of the acts is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. Accepts the report on the business of free zones in the Republic of Croatia in 2016, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 80 for, 37 abstentions and 4 votes against the accepted conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71902	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a Law on transfer of ownership in retirement homes, first reading, P.Z. No. 211; Proposer shall be the SDP Representatives Club, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government has delivered its opinion. I would like to invite a representative of the motionary, colleague Miranda Mrsic, to give us an additional explanation of the proposal of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71903	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This law aims to solve an injustice that has been in this area for many years, and this is the question that those institutions that are in buildings and care about older people and pensioners are de facto not the owners of the buildings in which they are. Namely, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, or their legal predecessors, built or participated in the construction and refurbished and reconstruction of the facilities of pensioners' homes and housing funds for the purpose of meeting the housing needs and improving the necessary conditions. Since 1990 they have moved on to ownership, so since then they have also been run as property of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. According to Article 78. The Law on the Institutions of that Social Legal Person shall become a public institution whose founding rights under that Law could be passed on to those institutions to units of local and regional and regional self-government. However, ownership rights have not been transferred and ownership rights remain on HZMO. Namely, the Republic of Croatia has established institutions but has not done so and has become the owner of the facilities in which these institutions work and operate. Neither local and regional self-government units as founders of institutions became property owners, i.e. pensioners' homes. So these rules actually only regulated the issue of the founding rights of the institution but not the property rights of the real estates and homes of the pensioners in which the institutions were operating. This interpretation was therefore confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia by decision of 28 April which did not accept the request to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and Articles 78, 79 and 81. The law on institutions. So the Institute still owns most of the home-building pensioners from housing funds. In addition, on two properties, it is in the process of establishing the right of ownership and of one co-ownership for the benefit of the institution. In addition, there are two other properties, for two more properties it determines whether they are included in land books based on a valid legal basis as ownership of the institution that uses them. It's a fact, it's a fact, and it's been trying to get rid of it for years, but it didn't work out even though there's a legal framework to resolve it. However, none, in any case, has been owned by the state, so the pension insurance office has moved on to the one who really is the founder of the facility, so either the state or the unit of local self-government. That wouldn't be a problem if we didn't have some things that started happening right now, and that's primarily the funding from Europe, from the European Social Fund, where pensioners' homes can use these funds very well, but they can't be used for the reason they're not owners. Because if you want to use the European Social Fund you have to prove that this property is your property and that you want to implement certain programs, i.e. changes or something else. On the other hand, if you want to get involved in energy recovery, which is extremely important to these buildings because they were built many years ago, you can't because you're not the owner. Thirdly, if we don't clean up the snow outside that building and someone slips and hurts their leg, it won't be the wrong facility to do it, but the owner, so the pension insurance office, because he's the title. Also when we talk about pension insurance institutions themselves he's not at all interested in anything investing in these buildings because it's not the cor business of the Pension Insurance Office, his corporate business is something else. On the other hand, the Pension Insurance Office does not charge any rent, rent to the institutions that work there. If the institution wants to make a certain change in the pensioner's home itself, it must ask the owner, and it owns the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. In fact, it limits these buildings to be renewed, to be more functional, to use EU funds, to develop programmes. So it's all about what's important and what's led us to pass or propose a pension law like this, so it's about transfer of ownership to retirement homes. It is simply by force of the law at the time when the law is passed is transferred from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to the founder of the facility that is in the building. Clearly, since it was an opposition proposal, the government rejected this law and said it would be settled by the State Property Management Act. He is also adopted, but I am not sure that this law will give effect, because Minister Maric and the people working in the ministry have much bigger problems than they will now go to solve the transfer of ownership of a pensioner's home, and on the other hand, the administration does not run to Zagreb and ask for change of owner. So I don't believe this problem will be solved by the transfer law itself, so the State Property Management Act. The law is simple, it's written precisely with the goal of doing it all of a sudden, and on the other hand, it has one security anchor, and that means it can't change the purpose of that building. This means that local self-government can't remember that instead of home pensioners there's a hotel to build or sell it somewhere else. Therefore, it must be returned to whoever was the previous owner. The cost of the state budget is gone. The only cost will be provided by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, which is obliged to assess the value of the property, but given some projections, it is approximately £200,000. Therefore, there is no large amount of money that should be burdened by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but on the other hand, it will solve this issue that they have for years to run properties in their portfolio that are de facto, they are owners, and they are not owners, and on the other hand they will enable local self-government and the state which is the founder of the institution to become the owner and the building in which these institutions are. We're sorry the government didn't have the sense to support this law. She got away with it in a way that would be dealt with by the State Property Management Act. We've had that law before. He didn't do anything and we'll probably be facing the same problem again in a few years, and that means that the pensioner's home will still be owned by one who doesn't want to be the owner in principle, and that's the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and those who should be the owners will not be the owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71904	I thank my colleague Miranda Mrsic for this explanation of the bill. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. We have a replica of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71905	Dear fellow Mrsic, you said you didn't know if a pensioner's home had moved into the ownership of a local self-government unit. I have to fill you in here. In some period quite far seven years ago, eight years ago, the city of Zagreb took the homes of the pensioners into its possession and it was settled, and in a time that was very close to us, and somewhere in April last year, the government of the Republic of Zagreb donated the home of pensioners to the city of Knin at its meeting in Knin. So that's what's happening. However, the intensity of this law is not that the government solves it individually, but that it solves it in the package, that it puts everyone in the same position, and not that someone gets it if they ask for it, the other if they don't get it. This is not certainly the law's intensity, and I still had one correction, or you said that EU funds could be used but should be very precise. EU funds can be used for the energy recovery of pensioners' homes, but not for the expansion of capacity, because since 2012, no EU Member State can get a single euro grant to expand capacity in pensioners' homes, because it is an emergency to spread extra-institutional care and to keep people in their homes for as long as possible, that is to say, all services come to their home threshold, or to their place of residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71906	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71907	Thank you very much. As far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, I know it's settled. I haven't heard of Knin, but apparently it was in that heat when an independent candidate was about to win in Knin's election. According to that, but to God dear, it doesn't matter. Knin's got a retirement home so there's a owner. I'm sorry these other 29 homes didn't become property of local self-government or where the state owns it. And that's something that's not going to happen with this new law that we passed the State Property Management Act because it's simply going to be conducted by the Ministry. It has other problems than the pensioners' homes right now, besides Minister Maric, has a projection of how much he must make for the sale of the property, and here he won't earn anything, so here's the balance of zero. So he's not really interested in handling it. Therefore, it is the urgency of this law for all to be in the same basket no matter who is at the head of the local self-government. And as for the European Social Fund's resources, yes, so just for energy recovery, but you have the part that's related to extra-institutional care, you also have programs that these institutions can implement inside their walls and can get certain funds to change that and make it different. If you're not the owner, then you can't get it. So you can't use the resources Europe gives us, and otherwise we see that the funds are very badly exploited, that we're just about as much as I think 7% or 8% of the funds we've withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71908	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. I call on the government representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Mrs Majda Buric to give us an explanation and opinion of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71909	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Brkić, distinguished representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So the proposal for a law on the transfer of ownership over the homes of pensioners to the Croatian Parliament president was submitted by the SDP representative club in the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the adoption of the proposed law since the bill does not provide a full normative solution. We believe that the above issue needs to be fully addressed in accordance with existing legislation as well as in cooperation with the Ministry of State Property. The proposed law requires the adoption of a Law on the transfer of ownership to the home of pensioners, i.e. in such a way as to transfer property rights over the property of pensioners' homes to the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with the obligation to retain their existing purposes by allowing them to enter into the property of an institution of a home for older and powerless persons operating in that facility. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office owns 26 real estates, and for 5 real estates, property used by institutions or homes for older and powerless persons whose founders are units of local and regional (regional) self-government and without rent or compensation to the owner. Since the founder of the Institute for Pension Insurance of the Republic of Croatia according to the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia, state property is also considered to be the property of the Institute, so the question arises as to the need for the adoption of the proposed law, and since management and availability of those properties can be implemented in accordance with the law I mentioned earlier, as well as other regulations relating to this matter. We also believe that it is not acceptable to transfer liability for liabilities from the basis of ownership rights from the institution to the founders, and it would also burden them in the case of the introduction of real estate into the property of the home institution for older and powerless persons who use this property. In addition, given the source of the funds from which the property concerned is built, and these are allocated from pensions to meet the housing needs and improve the necessary conditions of housing of pensioners and disabled workers, their purpose and value are considered to be the property concerned and should remain owned by the institution as well as part of the total state property. So we propose that the Croatian Parliament not accept the proposal for a law on the transfer of ownership over the home of pensioners. In addition, it should be noted that the Energy Reconstruction and Use of Renewable Energy in Public Sector Buildings, which was announced by the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, states on page 15 of the Programme itself who is the eligible notifier. An acceptable notifier shall be public institutions or institutions carrying out social activities if they meet certain criteria which are already clearly stated. Following all of this, several years ago HZMO agreed to homes for older and powerless who apply for energy recovery programmes for European funds or European funds, the House of Elderly and Powerless Persons Alfredo Štiglic from Pula reported that they had completed the project and implemented it, the House of Elderly and Powerless Persons Koprivnica, home in Novigrad, home in Bjelovar and home in Slavonski Brod. If it is necessary to say more about the phases in which these projects are located, European projects are currently available and for this. In addition, I would just like to point out that, in the 2014 Statute of the HZMO itself, in Article 15, which speaks about what the central service is doing, which are the tasks it does, and among other things, the management and availability of the assets of the Institute, the conduct of legal transactions in relation to the assets of the institutions and other transactions. Here's so much for now, I'm available for all the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71910	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for this argument of opinion. We have two replicas, the first replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71911	Dear Secretary of State, it seems to me that you are right in the government's opinion, I do not want to assess the positive, the negative opinion of the Government, but mentioned a legal mess. Namely, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a public institution. It is former social property has become state property, but given the Law on Privatisation, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is a public institution that acquires shares, which acquires property and is registered as owner in land books. Therefore, the Croatian Pensions Institute can transfer the rights of management of the property to and from the Ministry of State Property Management, but nothing can happen without the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute deciding. Because it neither decides the capital of the fund when it sells or the country or anything, unless it passed at the meeting of the fund assembly, and the fund assembly is the director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. So, the real owner of the home is the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and I will try to explain in my debate on behalf of the club why it is so, why it is not state property. It's because it's made out of insurance contributions over the years and that's why it has to be and that's why this is one of the elegant solutions. I'm not saying that maybe tomorrow the government will do the same law and do it in a similar way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71912	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. State Secretary, Mrs. Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71913	Thank you, dear and esteemed Mr. Hrelja. Therefore, with regard to the availability of real estate, etc. It should only be mentioned that the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute can hold up to a million kunas, i.e. make decisions up to a million kunas while the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes up to 5 million kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71914	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71915	Thank you very much. And the secretary of state, do you even understand this matter? You say the notifier, so who can be the applicant for EU funds? Well, it can be anyone, but then you have to bear proof that you own what you want to change, what you want to build. Therefore, you must, therefore, so the gentleman there shouts with his head because you must. Because why do you give consent? Why do you give consent to the establishment to go into energy recovery? Because he's a retired owner. So you can't say you shouldn't. Because, yes, you said yourself that you gave Pula consent, and because the owner gave it for retirement insurance, and we're going by this law to ensure that we don't have to give consent. On the other hand, you quoted the statute so clearly that the pension management is taking care of the property, but the property is all the apartments and those buildings owned by the Pension Insurance Office in the first place, so those buildings where the pension insurance services are. But this is what we're pulling from the portfolio of the Pension Insurance Act, so from the Pension Insurance Office, something that doesn't belong to them, which they won't even worry about. And these apartments need to be removed, because that's not something the Bureau should take care of and free people who deal with this property from doing the other job that's important to the pensioners. This is an elegant way to solve it. The Retirement Insurance Office will not, nor will they ever have them, nor will you be able to settle it with the State Property Management Act because it won't solve it. It's not even so far, so it won't be from now on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71916	I thank my colleague Mrssic. Answer, Secretary of State Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71917	Thank you. Dear Mr Mrsic, I suppose it would be necessary to repeat what home projects are for older and powerless, with the consent of HZMO as a public institution which is the applicant for EU funds and which are projects that have achieved some benefits based on it. So it should be said that in Pula, therefore, the House for Elderly and Powerless Persons Alfredo Štiglic was fully implemented by the consent of the Institute in accordance with the contract concluded with the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, and after the realization, energy certificates were issued, all necessary consent to the ideas of the main projects including the building permit for reconstruction and upgrade of the facility. There are many examples from Koprivnica, Novigrad, Slavonski Brod, Požega, Bjelovar, which are in different stages of European projects related to more or less energy recovery, so I felt the need to stress it once more. Therefore, homes for older and powerless can be applicants with the consent of HZMO as a public person who is an acceptable notifier and all based on the Energy Reconstruction Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71918	I thank you for your response to the secretary of state, Mrs. Buric. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club esteemed counterpart Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71919	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Proposer, the esteemed State Secretary with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, the Social Democratic Party MPs' club sent this bill to the parliamentary procedure as early as 10 months 2017. So, the proposal for a law on transfer of ownership over retirement homes, I guess, homes for old and powerless people, but basically meant the same thing. I have to say when I read this bill of law that I liked this idea because I said something similar and said that it was a good try and that we in the Croatian Democratic Community were actually saying... the homes of pensioners rather than of all those located in the area of local administration units in self-government and that they can far better dispose than the state itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is about something else, and it reminded me of that time from 2007 to 2011, the SDP club at the time when it was in opposition actually had several legislative proposals, it was about 37, but when it came to power, none of these legal proposals were implemented then through power, through executive power, so it seems to me that this proposal too. So, one good attempt but he as such is drawn up on speed, without any prior consultations, consultations, necessary analyses or involvement of the expert public in this bill. As a bill, any law should not be measured by the number of articles or articles because it does not say whether the law is good or bad, but let's say that this law has 9 articles and very dryly explains a very important problem. Thus, the bill would allow institutions of homes for older and powerless who use the property of pensioners and the ownership rights belonging to the institution as a whole, in this case the HMZ would be transferred to the founder. This proposal also sets out the purpose of homes for older and powerless, i.e. the ban on insurance and enforcement, the conduct in the event of bankruptcy, liquidation and other cases of termination of an institution operating in a home for old and powerless and in fact an assessment of the market value of the real estate itself. The truths and history should be told what Mr. Hrelja said earlier, HZMO, they built the homes of pensioners from the funds of the Housing Construction Fund since 1981, so as well as a series of decisions on the distribution that followed. At that time, these funds were actually allocated to the Fund for the needs of pensioners and disabled workers. And that law has been in force for almost 20 years. This Law on Institutions is only a matter of the founding rights of the institution but not of the property rights of the home of pensioners in which these institutions were doing business, as Mrsic also said. On this proposal, the government was manifested in the November month, I will talk about those things that may not have been said here, but the government has actually said in its statement that in fact the proposing did not consult enough units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and is calling on us to the European Charter of Units of Local Administration and Self-Government and I think that we should discuss it and actually ask their opinion at least through associations of municipalities and cities. The founder of an HZMO in this case is the Republic of Croatia, but according to the applicable Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, all these properties are considered by the State Secretary, and the same law requires who and how can establish the right of service. Furthermore, the government considers that it is not acceptable to transfer responsibilities for obligations with the basis of ownership rights, from the institution itself to the founders. And the bill itself doesn't give a complete and normative solution, and I might personally see through the fingers, it can actually be arranged if there's a real purpose and goal. But in the proposal of this law when it comes to the very homeland for older and powerless, it may be necessary to say when it comes to one whole solution and some other homes that are in charge and now the Ministry of Demography, family and youth and social policy, so it is also about homes, decentralised homes, almost 45 county homes, 3 homes for older and powerless, not to mention those homes related to adults with mental impairment, for youth, for behavioral problems, etc. And you, Mrsic, said in your presentation that you welcome this intensification at the Law on State Property Management where Minister Maric spoke almost a month ago, but you do not believe in the shortcuts of the work they have in that ministry so that something could be done about these homes, I will only quote something about this law, that all the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, on the very day of 1 January 2017, would be in the nature of the school, the homes of health, hospitals and other institutions that are the founders of the local and regional (regional) self-government and used for educational and scientific purposes, to enroll in the ownership of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in whose jurisdiction and the establishment of certain institutions. So it's going in that direction, so I'm saying that this is one good try, maybe at the wrong time, but I'm saying there was maybe enough time, those four years when you were in power to maybe solve this in a better way because I know that we were in opposition then talking about similar things and I don't think I'm going to say some consensus, but this could have been solved in a much better way. Now, because of all the above and what we have heard both the Government's own opinions and the secretary of state, and given the shortcomings mentioned in this bill, the fact is that we have also discussed this at the club, the HDZ cannot accept this proposal of the Retirement Homes Act or the Houses for the Elderly and Powerless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71920	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Babic for this debate. We have a few replicas, the first to come by the line came by a esteemed colleague, Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71921	Dear counterpart Babić, therefore it does not appear that there was no analysis, so the analysis was done in detail, and when you call these four years, then they were in these four years and these analyses were made, and the analysis of all that HZMO owned, therefore the analysis was made, and it was from that analysis that this idea to solve all this through one law, not through the Law on State Property Management, because it proved to be inconclusive. So, that just doesn't work. On the other hand, we have consulted the local self-government, so for every home of the pensioners, we have contacted the local self-government that is the founder of the institution and they were all interested in accepting such a solution, because it seemed to them the simplest, because then they have no costs, neither they are running the whole process, but the procedure is automatically legal. The entry into force of the law is going to assess the value of the building, from the building is going automatically into possession of local self-government. And you could have done the same in those four years when we were in power, given a bill like this. It is clear that HDZ does not want the opposition to have any law, which will also accept positions. And well, it's government technology and it's like that, but this is one solution that has no charge on the political either left or right, but this is a solution that allows these institutions to function and function in a simpler way than they do now. Believe me, without this law, there will be no effect, and that is to move everyone into ownership of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71922	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for the replica. The answer of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71923	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mrsić, I said in the opening statement, that this is a good attempt and that while we were in the opposition, the truth is, at least the materials that we have received and which can be downloaded from the Croatian Assembly website, there is no necessary analysis. I have no doubt that while you were in power you did not work them, given that it was in your portfolio and I know that you know this problem and it is good that such solutions are possible and useful for Croatian society, especially for local administration units and self-government, but also ultimately for older and powerless to be solved as such. As for the second part, and our proposals while we were in opposition, that there were suggestions, I remember, one, the first one that was impelation, about... The bridge, then he was put in the back seat and it was never discussed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While, for example, today, the truth works, we in the Croatian Parliament know the points that will be discussed and here, finally, and this proposal of yours, which was at the same time in the 9th month. sent, but already in February of this month we are talking about the proposal of your law in the Croatian Parliament, which I welcome and I think that good things, good ideas, can come to any representative, any club, especially those who were in power, because they have something to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71924	I would like to thank my colleague Babic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71925	Dear fellow Babic, in his presentation on behalf of the club, you have repeatedly said that in this law we are talking about homes for the elderly and the powerless. In this law we're talking about the transfer of ownership over retirement homes to who? The institutions for the old and powerless whose founder is under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the states are units of local and regional self-government, therefore, cities, counties and the City of Zagreb. So we have to be precise here and not mix institutions and homes. I know, yeah, I just noticed that it might have happened to you this way, but we need to clarify these things. The second thing that surprised me, you are otherwise known here in the Parliament as a good rhetorical man, very careful what others say, what you say and what you say, but coin, good try, maybe at a bad time. Let me get this straight. If it's a good try, then we need to find a good time. So, we can't settle for that, huh, says at a bad time there's a good try, we're not going to, we don't have a lot of good attempts, we're throwing ourselves at good tries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71926	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71927	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, you were right was a good try, but at the wrong time I said it, it's true. I agree with that, when I talked about it, then I thought of something else, and that Mrsic actually said at one point, so, and the government says that, the whole problem and the problem, this whole problem should be fully solved. And if you remember from a month ago, when we talked about the State Property Management Act, we didn't touch these things. So the whole thing should be solved. The government is on track to resolve such matters, and I believe that this will also help local self-government units and regional and regional self-government. Because as long as it's been a long time, almost 27 years, so that we don't actually have good results today and indicators about it, is it better and if you want to head up subsidiarity, is it better that the founders and those who are dealing with this problem better manage certain things than if you want state. So, I advocate that the thesis that units of local self-government are precisely that principle of subsidiarity, far better able to manage things on their own ground, because the problem is always solved where it came from. While the state solves it, and we see it in a number of cases and in these 20 years it's a very tropical system it's bureaucratically limited, administratively, so it's holding itself back and holding back development, and thus this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71928	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic, for this answer, for the replica. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71929	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So regardless of what we once had, two different social arrangements between the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Croatia, I assure you that if we had discussed this problem in the Republic of Italy that neither the Parliament nor the Government would have decided on it at that time. Why? Because they still manage tripartitely their pension services and account to the government for all non-retirement pensions, they regularly pay their liabilities and they pay their pensions. Of course, they don't have any problems that we have, that we've put into the pension system everything and everything, and then in 2001, I'm sorry, in 2000, there was a situation so we wouldn't be in debt, let's put HZMO in the Treasury to solve the insolvency problem, and then we started mixing, we would say in Istria, in Dalmatia kop and shada. Although it was declared to whom it belonged and under the Privatisation Act, the company was equally aware of what belonged to the pension fund, so these things were also decided. However, the public institution is no longer what has no original income, it is a technical accounting service, pension payment, it is not managed by tripartite trade unions-employees-Government, the government has the majority and can carry out whatever it wants, but it is tied up again, it has an excuse because it is related to funding and payment. But property should not be subject to this, and it should be owned by the Croatian Pensions Institute as a public insurance institution to decide more, not simply handing it over to the ministry or in our term they also handed it over to the Privatisation Fund, the Agency, to everyone just to remove it or others wanted to take it for themselves. It is not fair because in the finale or original property of Croatian citizens, the property of HZMO except what came under the Privatisation Act, but all of this was built from the contribution of Croatian citizens at the time when five people paid for one pensioner, then four, three, two, and now 1.2 per pensioner barely. That's some let's say, some history of HZMO. So who built those retirement homes in Pula, Rijeka, Split? They built citizens who live there today, who may be some users, and I think this is a good bill to give these units where they live, or to give ownership rights to those homes, in the end they were built by these people. HZMO can't give a kuna for its property except I don't know if it can provide them or secure them from the fire or any facility as such, so it also provides real estate, but it can't even secure its property, let alone consider restoring the facade, to do anything. I have the freshest example, county councilman in the Istarska County Assembly and we have made decisions that the County of Istria will co-finance the reconstruction of three homes, home in Rovinj, home in Rasa and another part of this mentioned in Pula. But it's not about rebuilding the facade, it's about redecorating, not increasing the accommodation capacity, it's about redecorating. And now he's thinking, the mayor told me he was thinking about giving up everything. Not a real Europe problem, the secretary of state is right when she says that she can get the consent to be used to rebuild the facades, but our banks are making a problem. Who will be the guarantee, the owner, whether a mortgage can be placed on the property, our banks are doing worse procedures than the EU according to the funds we receive from them. So there really is a problem if local, regional self-government wants to do something, it wants to improve the standard for its citizens who have accommodations in retirement homes. That's why I think this is a good suggestion. There is always a good proposal to find disadvantages and demand even more, but I think there is a safeguard clause that it must not be alienated, that it must remain for the same purpose, that it can be given the same in the base, but in the function of that institution that exists in the home. So let's say all the preconditions that might be acceptable to the law. I can't speak nomotechnically because I don't dare judge anything that isn't my domain, so on that side, I allow every possible remark. So, it's a shame that we don't deal with it, it's a shame that the government doesn't introduce a new practice because this really isn't an ideological question, let's say business relief, relief on the way to increasing the quality of life and the work of people who are located in retirement homes. Of course, you can't redecorate yourself inside the very home of the retired almost nothing, almost nothing, although you can get the means to create inside and living room and this, that. Yeah, you can get funds to design a network that will carry food home, which will have care in the house. So volunteers who will visit people in their homes to have one location around which they revolve and around which they bind. However, you can't use any funds for any redecoration, I'm just saying only for energy recovery and we can't increase the capacity of retirement homes. So you can see that from these discussions we have a higher dose of consensus than we thought at the beginning, that also fellow Babic says that the problem should be tackled there in priority and that there should be more opportunities, more opportunities to show its creation, its desire, its opportunities to local or regional self-government than to keep it strictly centralised, and indeed there is no business here, there is no big development here but only the benefits and quality of life of our citizens. So, of course, the GLAS and HSU club will support this bill regardless of what the government has expressed a negative opinion and may be at this point as we have said, it may be a bad time, but let the government come up with a good moment. If he's on this trail of a good proposal and at some better time, we'll also support him. And my colleague Mrssic can only get one clue about the content of this law, not the nomotechnics, not the good initiative. I can only object to him, and why my dear colleague didn't do it when you were a minister. That's what we talked about, right? I can tell him that. We talked about it. But obviously, even then it might have been a good idea at the wrong time, but we're not going to be spreading this debate any further. Anyway, we have this on the repertoire, this is worth it, this is an idea and an incentive worth it. Of course, you coalition, most in the Croatian Parliament will refuse, but I ask you and I urge you to consider this debate today and that if we have made mistakes in our mandate, you do not have to do them where you should not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71930	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hrelja. She says the Bible, sir, if sin were to be mentioned who would survive. So don't hit your colleague Mrsic too hard. We have one replica. Dear fellow Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71931	I'm under Biokov, and we're as tough as those who are a little behind us, so the more attack I'm more sure that we're doing a good job. Mr. Hrelja, you don't think that the passing of this law actually leaves two types of retirement homes. One that owns local self-government, who can do anything. If local self-government is as strong as Istria, which will then be able to rebuild homes, it will be able to build, it can increase the standard of pensioners, and you have also a strong local self-government that would want to do the same, but it can't because it owns the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, and here's what you said yourself can't raise a mortgage on that building, this building can be in a very good place where you can get a good mortgage because it's worth land and everything. You can't do this because this institution isn't the owner, and naturally, the Pension Insurance Institute doesn't think about going into such financial institutions, and I think it's practically impossible for the institution to borrow and the Pension Insurance Office to guarantee that the mortgage is raised to those funds. And as for the law itself, he was in preparation, we talked about him together, but clearly, in four years, you can't do everything. If you have passed the Pension Insurance Act, the Labour Act, the Union's Representative Act, the Labour Protection Act, the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and still the force of legal acts is not everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71932	I thank my colleague Mrssic. Answer, dear colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71933	I'll listen to the Vice President of the Parliament, now that I'm well-remembered, I'm kind of almost like a turtle, but in 6 months of 2015, you sent this bill into procedure, to the government procedure, but it never came to the constituency benches if I remember correctly. So it's not an attack, but it's a pity we didn't do it before, because it was a high degree of consent. I agree not to get everything in one term, but it would be a good recommendation for another government as well. Look, local self-government units in Istria County, or the regional county is willing to be guaranteed loans to the institution, and we made those decisions. But now the banks are looking for that bread next to the cake. So they're looking for super-guarantee, they're looking for pure property, they're looking for one through one, and it's a terribly complicated procedure. As long as we have this condition, one of them got it on a gift gift. I'd recommend to the government that he make sure he puts everything in the same position, make another 29 gifts. We've solved the problem, we don't have to pass the law anymore, we don't have to meet here, we don't have to discuss this at this time, and that's the solution for everything. And here, my dear units of local self-government, regionally all of you equally our government loves. She is, you are generally accepted and all the homes here we transfer you to the property of your institutions that you have founded and which you manage. Of course we need to make an assessment at that point because Knin, too, I suppose, had to make an assessment to get HZMO to sign off on that value at home that was donated. He can't stay in the ownership books what he used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71934	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71935	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few words and a review of the current situation briefly. The Most Independent Lists Club will support this law allowing the transfer of ownership of pensioners' homes to local and regional self-government units. And this isn't just another form of decentralisation we're talking about there. The fact that at this point HZMO has properties on which pensioners' homes are one large part, but as owner, it is obliged and maintained even though there is no money for it, nor the capacity to monitor all this to every unit of the local community, nor should it. On the other hand, when a home - managing institution wants, for example, to restore the facade, etc. It can't be without the owner, we've heard it today, and this law should change it. Stressing that the new owners of retirement homes will have to maintain their existing purpose, we understand that, but we are also told that it will be easier to apply to the European Social Fund. But now something about those retirement homes. We all know what demographic trends are, in 2030, the country will live 1.4 billion older people and the phenomenon of urbanization will increase the number of older citizens and live near major cities. And what's the current situation? One fifth of our population is over 65 years old, every third person is at risk, on the verge of over 65 years is at risk of poverty. Currently, according to the 2011 census, those data that are almost 758,000 people over 65 years old are one high 17.7% share in our population. 100,000 people over 65 have no income in Croatia. And what do we want? Declaratively, we want to improve the position and allow for a more quality and peaceful age for older people. Currently, 17000 people are located in homes for older people of 72000 requests. I also had to face those who say there is no waiting list last week at the County Assembly in the Primorje-Gorski County. There's a waiting list. Twenty-five thousand is ready to enter homes tomorrow. It means there's too many of them, but 25,000 is ready right away tomorrow and they're looking and waiting. And what has to be said in Croatia is such a fully independent person with a pension of 6000 kuna who, ten years ago, has submitted a request and is waiting, are those who are waiting, will surely at a certain time realize this accommodation at the price of 2500 kuna, but at the same time a person with a pension of 2500 kuna who cannot and lives alone on the edge of poverty and who has never submitted a request to a state or county home, which, due to the sudden circumstances and illnesses, this house urgently needs and because of the health situation, can no longer live alone, the place will have to be searched in a private home whose prices are 5,6,7,8 to 9 thousand kuna. So the full price will then be borne again by their families and other than their pensions and so on in a circle. So for more than 20 years in Croatia, this is how the system of accommodation of older people, people in state and county homes works. I'm not going to talk about a person who's completely immobilized and unable to live on her own at 64 because it's restricted, some homes have been doing some changes, but only over 65 years of age has the right. But you have 85-year-olds who are very self-sufficient to live and manage their lives qualityly, run their finances, deal with both variety and all other activities. So 65 years is also a question of whether it should be a restriction on housing in homes for older people. And so if a person waits long enough, if she logs in, she'll certainly make a place in the desired home. But will the person who needs accommodation at some point be realized? At the same time, the cheapest homes offer you the most often and significantly higher levels of security and quality than private ones, which I have already spoken of several times. Right now with over 500 private homes, you have a situation that has no control over these homes. There are old people sometimes left to the mercy and mercy of those who are owners and who are neither professional enough nor those homes are capacitated and filled with quality personnel. And because the Ministry of Demography and Social Welfare doesn't have enough teams to control these homes, they don't go around, and there the elderly are left to mercy and disgrace very often disabled with contact with the outside world, disabled with regular visits when they want their families in poor conditions, with poor nutrition. I'm not saying they're all like that, but there are a lot of them, and we don't have that problem at this point in control or we've solved it. Thus, in state and county homes, the difference between the actual costs for each user without any prescribed criteria covers the state or county of decentralised funds and the money they are given from the state budget, so for 2016, home revenues amounted to 350 million and expenditures were 560 million. It is clear that such a system is not good, we have maintained it for years, one government, another government, we see that we are all in agreement that something should change and I think it is necessary and necessary a complete reform of that system, a reform of the financing of homes for older people, but also with the possibility of applying to European social funds and strengthening the services of help in the house. Many people want to stay in their environment as long as possible with the support of local community units and can. So we owe it to our older people, means to provide good comfort, to house society, to eat, to clean up, and all that we can actually do with community services. If there were room, anything would be ideal? If there were room both in state and county homes and in private, the older person would decide which home he wants it to be. But at this point, the best thing would be to have enough room in state and county homes if they were available to everyone. And we certainly have reasons to launch reform in this system. Therefore, there is nothing controversial about any elderly person, even while he can function on his own without greater problems if he wants to move to a separate hotel with an additional service that he can afford with an average pension. But there's no room, waiting lists like I said were huge. Therefore, our motive should be a fairer availability and the existence of choices equally among the more urban population where there is more frequent presence of this desire to still go at a certain time to home, and among the older people from rural areas who may be different from one status, different traditions, and this option is difficult for them, and they do not have all that and those other support that the local community actually needs to help. There will probably be no savings here, because the money that is now being covered, the difference between the actual costs and the price paid by the user in the state and county homes will be directed to other services such as help in the house, cleaning services, delivery of meals, and that is all we as a community should be developing. I support this law primarily because this transfer of ownership will lead to an increase in the quality of the life of older people in each of these units of the local community and I think that's the first step we need to take. Absolutely not to make an unequal relationship between homes that are already in some way turned out to meet and were returned to the units of the local community. It should be equally accessible to everyone. Support for this law no matter how they actually vote in the end, because there is clearly no agreement on the part of the government at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71936	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for this debate. Replica, dear colleague of the Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71937	Dear colleague Linic, I only have one message for you. I will be very grateful to you, within the competence of the Committee on Social Policy and Health, to initiate a thematic meeting in which you should see the real quality of life in the private homes of the pensioners and how to enter, how the state has control over standards. So that price and service in those homes is in some balance. Is it possible to make that state no matter where it is owned that the home of the pensioners gives everyone, for example, 1000 kuna, but that it retains per user, but that it retains the right to control the standards of service. Because I don't think situations are as great as we're advertised in these homes, retirement homes. And there's another problem, and that's that everyone wants to go to a home in their town. We recently discussed here the home of a pensioner in Križevci who has 100 accommodation units. It was filled about a year ago. After a year of working at 17%. 17 units of the apartment were filled, the rest empty. Then you can imagine what a burden it is in business when you have a 100 planned, and you work at 17. Despite the fact that the city is also participating for its citizens, it is obviously a misjudged investment, but it is a pity that it stands empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71938	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Reply Dear colleague Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71939	... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Brkić: I would like to ask you to join your colleagues.]] Maybe you didn't hear me, for years I've been a neurologist actually daily in contact and I see the consequences of unquality care for older people in private homes for older people and foster families. So, state county homes, pensioners' homes in local community units, no matter how they're funded, they're much more quality, they care better, they're known to be food-to-staff norms. Not private. Very often it ends and she talks with a life-long or life-long restraint where a lot of things and these days we're re-aware, re-reading in Kostrena what happened. So these older people are being abused and not a good care. We see how they go there and how, after a certain time, there is a disorder in their health. Therefore, it is necessary not to add 1000 kuna to control. County at this point, I've been checking I can only look at sanitary conditions and minimum technical conditions. They don't control whether there's a housewife on 20 fixed persons this afternoon, night or one nurse or nurse. That's the problem. And these are the people who directly care about those older people. So that part must be entered by the local community, there must be control at the level of the county and the municipalities and the city, not by the state, because the state has only two teams to control these private homes. So he's not able to control anyone. As for the Cross, every older person wants to be where he lives, where if he goes home, another family member, friends and everyone they know can come to visit, go away for 100, 200, 300 km. So we put that person in that room, locked up in that room, and it's like she died because she's cut off all her contacts with the outside world. That's not good. The local community must assess what capacity it needs for its elderly and thus build a story, not build and then ask all of Croatia to be sent there, because it is not an intensity. The intensity is, however, to keep that older person in the environment in which she lived until then because it allows at least some kind of interaction with that life they had before they were put into a nursing home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71940	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71941	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Mrsic, on behalf of the Proposer of this Act, respected state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'd like to join the opinion that this proposal of the Law on Transfer of Property over Retirement Houses has good intentions. Namely, the intention was for institutions and units of local, regional, regional self-government of the Republic of Croatia to receive some new benefits, opportunities, some new rights. However, by reading the Law, what can I see, what does the new owner do? The ban on the charge of property, the ban on determining and implementing the insurance of demand and enforcement, the ban on the collection of demand in bankruptcy and liquidation, the ban on alienation of real estate, the ban on change of purpose, means nothing other than accommodation, nor the organisation of half-day stay, the whole-day, the help in the house, the accommodation units, we are also talking about older people. So, what do we get with this law? We're only getting new commitments. We should not forget that even so far, the Bureau has been giving to institutions without any compensation and no rent. If we add that to the institutions are founders of the Republic of Croatia and we look at this property and it can be available under the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia, then I do not see the meaning of this Law in this way. A lot has been said today about how they can be financed through EU funds to build these homes. In fact, rural development measures in all settlements below 5000 inhabitants can finance the construction of social homes, including kindergartens, firehouses and nursing homes. The fact that it has not been negotiated in good times and how it should be possible for more than 5,000 residents to do so, perhaps a better answer to those questions can be given to you, but the intention is certainly positive, but the way you proposed this to this House I do not think it is acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71942	I thank you for your discussion with my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have one replica. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71943	Thank you very much. Imported colleagues, Art. 6: the exception referred to in Article 1 of this Article may be leased for the purpose of carrying out service activities, etc. So it's a mechanism that you can have a hairdress inside, you can have a coffee shop and everything else that's in one retirement home. So we were counting on it, but we wanted to put in a very firm anchor so that local self-government couldn't sell it and couldn't make it a hotel. That's very clear. On the other hand, we wanted this law to remove that there are two types of retirement homes. One owned by local self-government, what we already talked about, then having all the benefits, especially if local self-government is strong, and especially, if we're in the guidebooks, therefore, local self-government is strong, which can build a good home of health. But let's just say that in Vodice, there's a health care center owned by the state, and there's nothing you can do because you can't get credit because it doesn't make sense that you're going to have the funds that you can build half a home right now without having a bank loan. As far as these 5,000 are concerned, it's not like we haven't negotiated. So we have negotiated, but the EU's view is that local self-government that has more inhabitants, that it has so much power that it can also submit funding for this. But you have other mechanisms so you can withdraw funds for that purpose. Therefore, we have negotiated, but unfortunately, the European Commission is the opinion that it is at 5,000. We wanted to raise it to 10,000 because we thought it was about the size that would allow things to be solved in the best possible way. I'm sorry that, here, you won't support this law. It has nothing to do with the SDP or the HDZ, or any ideology. It only has to do with everyone being in the same relationship and getting as much EU funding as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71944	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. Answer. She's a colleague of Juricev-Martinchev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71945	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Mrssic, you mentioned settlements where the possibility of construction, that is, such a situation that we have so-called. a social and private home. And now that I don't know what reason that institution must go under liquidation or bankruptcy, according to this Act, the owner has no right, or that perpetrator doesn't have the right to put any effect on that property. Also, you're banned from changing purpose in a way, and now I'm only talking about that purpose that's meant for older people. So, house assistance, all day or half-day stay, accommodation units, etc. Nothing can be done under this law. Also, the owner, so the Bureau itself is able to change the purpose or ultimately sell the property. Then what have we done with this law? It's nothing special. When the facility comes for any reason under bankruptcy or liquidation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71946	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have the final word. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to refer to this. So, who's he gonna sell that real estate to? So that means that local self-government has lost its purpose to help people who are retired to be at home. If you have burdened your home with a mortgage, if you have burdened your home so that it goes to auction, this very law prevents you from doing so. So it's the intensity of this law that you, for example, decide on the local self-government to build something quite 100, and then put a nice mortgage on the retirement home because it's on the most beautiful part of the coast and you can raise the most funds on it because it's very valuable and we've just disabled it, so it can't change the purpose, the purpose must remain the same. And that's the anchor we are because we know there are all kinds of ideas that come out and appetites, that's just the goal of this. As for all these remarks on whether a living room can be organised inside, care in the house, so of course it can, therefore, be this part of Article 6, again I say service activities that are used by persons in the home, home facilities, retirement homes, so no one forbids to continue to work and those other activities that go, the law does not restrict it because these are activities that the institution does independently. So we don't define the status of an institution, we don't define what the institution is going to do, we just define that in that building you have to do what it is, which is that it's that retirement home and that it has to be it, so it can't be anything more than that. I am pleased that a certain part of the clubs will support this law, again I note that this is not a law that is colored ideologically but is really a law that should solve this dichotomy, that we have homes of pensioners who are of a kind, we have homes of pensioners of another kind, I did not speak of private homes, so private homes are quite something else, I was talking about homes of pensioners owned by local self-governments and homes of pensioners who are owned by the state or HZMO. Here we have two types of homes for the same population, those owned by local self-government, again I note if it is strong, strong, has money, have good accommodation, good conditions, and those who aren't owned and local self-government has a desire to improve their standard, it can't be why it owns HZMO. And God forbid the government decides the days of a government's session here have a background in HZMO, there's a clear idea of which homes are retired and that a decision is made at the government's session to donate all 27 homes to local self-government, and no local self-government will say it won't take over, but all of them will take over, not that we only have Knin as I said, it was obviously pre-election, but it didn't help because the citizens obviously thought well about who was headed in Knin. So, I'm sorry we couldn't agree on this, and we could, the law is good, he's been through a lot of analysis, so the issue of constitutionality and the issue of ownership and the issue of transfer in garnery, and the question of local self-government, the Charter of Local Self-Government, so it's all kind of jumbled and this law is well balanced even though it seems to have a relatively small number of articles but a small number of articles does not mean that the law is not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71948	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We have two replicas, a respected colleague of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71949	Thank you very much. When I spoke about liquidation and similar or real estate sales, I spoke about the settlement immediately at the beginning of a new nursing home, in private, so there are better services and the like, but you are referring to Article 6, I think you are misreading it. Under this law, it is not possible to modify the activity of either half-day or whole-day stay, home assistance and the like because Article 6 of you have stated, exceptionally from paragraph 1 of this Article, a certain small part of the property of the pensioner's home can be leased for the purpose of carrying out service activities that are used by persons located in a home for elderly and powerless persons. So the key is this, part of the property, so it can't be the whole day's stay, and that's the one that's in the home. If it is a half-day stay or a whole day, it means that the pensioner is located in his family home and only there to come over the day to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71950	I thank my esteemed colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, Mrsic's reply, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71951	Well, colleagues, we either don't understand each other or you only read on one side. So this is what you're talking about is a matter of the statute of the facility that works there. In that statute you can transfer the activities that this institution will do or not. We're just saying here that the property that's home to the pensioners can only be home to the pensioners. And that you can perform certain service activities in that retirement home. Living room is not a service activity in that form you speak. So the living room in it can also be users of the home but can also be users outside the home, therefore, we have talked about it both with the people who are directors of these homes and from that came this construction. We don't say what the institution wants and needs to do, it can have a diapazone however it wants, it can have a daughter who will follow people's laundry as a service activity but the building itself can be just you and those purposes and that's the purpose and this article 6, simply so it doesn't happen, that it opens up the bank's business there because the bank has money, and then it's going to pay that space well, or to open the store I don't know what doesn't use the users of that retirement home, that's the intensity. And I think the intensity's been hit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71952	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. We have another replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71953	Thank you. Dear fellow Mrsic, it is logical for me that Article 7 defines this, in the final address you mentioned, that at the home of the pensioner it is not possible to determine and implement the insurance of demand, voluntarily or forcefully and at the home of the pensioner to determine and carry out the exercise, to settle the search of the creditors in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation. It's for all the important public institutes. Well, you can't even do that on a mandatory pension fund that has billions of kunas, you just can't, and the legislator can prescribe it in certain cases, and here it's clear. For the business of an institution that is tomorrow, which will also have property over that home which has no meaning but for the business of the institution are the founders, the founders manage, so they have their people in the administrative bodies of the institution, are responsible for the spending of the funds and for those who receive and those who collect, etc. Therefore, always the founder of the institution is ultimately responsible for business, there is no need at all, but banks when, say, someone, when in particular in the Istrian case when the county decides to co-finance that part of course and from the loan of banks then the banks demand that they have a clean ownership structure. I haven't invented those rules, but unfortunately they're also looking for bread next to a cake, and it's really one problem where these Istrian homes of pensioners and counties are considering giving up on restoring those capacities if someone doesn't help them solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71954	I thank my esteemed colleague, Silvana Hrelja, and my colleague Mrsic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71955	Yes, so it was the intensity of this law that, first of all, to ensure that those who are home users stay in that home and not that it was after they transferred them to local self-government to remember someone and then moved them to another facility and then sold them out of those funds and solved some other problems or resolved their debt. And in Article 7, we made it very clear that there is no possibility that this property could be alienated, sold, and that is nothing strange. There are therefore many other buildings in Croatia that are also referred to by the institution to which this article of the law applies. Therefore, it is not unusual and unusual. This is just another security mechanism so it doesn't happen. Nothing, we'll wait for the government to decide to get rid of it like,... Yes, either by law or by gift, by law on the availability of property, the state property won't because it's not even so far and it won't be with this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I hope that that's where the government will remember to solve this, and when we don't know that, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71956	Thank you, fellow Mrsic, for your response, patiently rescued say. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the representatives of the motionor, i.e. the representative, my colleague Mrsic, for the explanation of the proposal and also for the representatives of the Government, State Secretary Mrs Majdi Buric, Assistant Minister Meliti Čičak and Assistant Director of HZMO, Mr Ivan Pavkovic, for the reasons of the government's position. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With these esteemed colleagues and colleagues, for today we have exhausted all the points of the agenda foreseen for the plenary debate. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 9.30 in the morning with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, First Reading, P.Z. No. 286. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 18.35 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-28-0.u71957	Proposal for a Law on transfer of ownership over retirement homes, first reading, P.Z. No. 211, the promoter is the SDP's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on the transfer of ownership of pensioners' homes is not accepted, please vote. I find that most votes are 77 for, 3 abstentions and 43 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me just announce point one, and then we'll take a break. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, First Reading, P.Z. No. 286, it's going to be the 1st point. Before that, hands are in the air. He's my first colleague, Glasnović. Look at him.
