ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85017	President of the Croatian National Assembly, distinguished MPs and MPs, it is my privilege to present to you the amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and to invite you to have a truly reasoned and constructive discussion after this presentation on the Law on Education and Education, which should provide the basis for the reform of education, the entry of our schools in the 21st century, because we know that quality education is based on scientific knowledge, in fact, a strong demographic measure, and in this sense, here I really call on you to pass the most important changes in this law in these opening minutes so that this debate is truly justified and constructive. The most important things that we have changed in this law concern the adoption of curriculative documents relating to the curriculative reform of the education and education system, then enabling the participation of the state in schoolwork where necessary and necessary, I will explain later, then the employment of workers in school institutions participating in EU projects, or the increase of salaries for employees up to 30% if they work on EU projects and withdraw funds from EU projects. Some procedures have also been improved, especially the employment procedures in primary and secondary schools. I will now pass through this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and say the most important changes. So, first of all, in Article 4, we added two principles based on one side on the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, then the Constitutional Court's assessments, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, or the European Social Charter. The first principle refers to the promotion of educational values and values based on the constitutionally guaranteed right of parents to decide independently on child rearing and refer to this same Article 4 in the current Law, which clearly states that the objective of education and education in school institutions is to raise and educate students in accordance with general, cultural and civilizational values, human rights and children's rights, to train them to live in a multicultural world, to respect diversity and tolerance and to participate actively and responsibly in democratic development of society. So this nine can relate to these values that are mentioned here. Also, in principle 10, it is said that everyone has the right to education. Children have the right to access information or content based on modern scientific and educational standards important for the full and coherent development of their ability, which, where teaching is transmitted in an objective, critical, pluralistic way. And of course, what the Constitutional Court has already said in its, once earlier statement, that the tasks of public education, the school system are to be neutral and balanced and to enable the child to exercise that right. So that's important that we see these principles that we've added here as good, balanced two principles. The first to refer to education, but related to the values that are highlighted in the earlier part, means, civilization values and the right to education based on scientific, educational standards and contemporary knowledge means in principle 10. As far as the term is concerned, which is used here has been succesively altered wherever it was necessary to appear along with the plan and the program and the term curricula. We use curricula, not curricula for a simple reason, because the law when it was passed by 2008, so far, uses the term curricula as a technical term, and so we continue to use it and do not change it in these proposed amendments and additions to the Law, although we know that there are different interpretations in the professional public. However, we use that term as a technical term and so we put it everywhere in the Law. What else has been changed? There has been a change in the way of bringing in a network of school institutions where special programmes or programmes for children with special needs are provided for in the networks of school institutions. So that's the news about the net. We also have the adoption of a faster and simpler extension of the activities of school institutions in such a way that if the existing school institution adds a new programme to its activity, that it is enough to pass, it means that it is decided by a minister rather than having a relatively complicated and longer procedure to the level or decision of the Government in this regard. We also make school and enrolment rights clearer. A clearer definition is made of the procedures for issuing a copy of the evaluations when switching to another school. So that's all in these articles changes until 8. In particular, I draw your attention to the article. 9. which speaks of curricular documents which are, where we are talking about changes foreseen by curriculative reform, and it is said that education and education at school is achieved by the basis of national curricula, curricula and curricula and school curricula and in section 2. The types of curricular documents are described in a generic way. Why generically? In fact, to ensure that the Law does not need to be changed if the title is changed, the title of a document is changed. Similarly, the roof national document that is now a national framework curricula, in the new proposal, is the ONC, or the framework of the national curricula, is mentioned here as a roof national curricula document and it is envisaged to be adopted on the basis of a strategy. Why isn't he written in a different way? Because it also includes preschool education, which is of course not subject to the normisation of this Law, which applies only to primary and secondary schools and in this sense is referred to as a national, roof national document. However, all of the levels, individual levels and types of education are mentioned, so for which we know, meaning from primary, secondary school, also individual specific curriculas such as for the vocational education that we have brought, means national curricula for vocational education, and so what do we do with such curricula? We define the purpose, values, objectives, principles of certain parts of the education and education system, as well as guidelines for promoting adaptation of learning experience, and evaluation of achievements. So one more time. Valuation of achievements, way of teaching, working with students with developmental difficulties, as well as working with gifted students, which is all covered by this Article. 2nd, i.e. Article 2(2) of this article. Of course, teaching subjects performed at a level and type of education other than national curricula for vocational education, or national curricula for artistic education, which actually contain the ratios of groups of teaching subjects. Next, in Art. The 10th is clearly about the curricula of teaching subjects based on educational outcomes where there can be, of course, the content through which educational outcomes are achieved, but there are also levels of adoption, learning and teaching and evaluation in a particular teaching class. A list of the necessary qualifications of teachers and teachers to perform curricula may also be established. So that's what it says here that way. Curriculums performed as interdisciplinary or interdisciplinary themes or modules shall be performed in teaching subjects and programmes. So, in teaching subjects and programmes as part of the educational standard that the student is involved and in fact it is an educational standard means, they are mandatory and electoral subjects, and inter-item topics, as I said, modules are included in that educational standard. There is also an extension of the definition of school curricula by inserting the electoral part of inter-entities and interdisciplinary topics, i.e. the elements of school development strategies. In principle, the deadlines for the adoption of individual documents for the simple reason, which were not immediately formed at the beginning of the year, the school year, all the bodies that need these curriculaes, or plans, are also amended to confirm that the transition from the results, i.e. the content of learning outcomes, as that important link and an important basis for curricular approaches, has also been changed. In the experimental program, when you say what experimental program is and who can propose an experimental program, the ministry is added, that it can be a proposer of an experimental program. However, it should be borne in mind that this experimental program that starts in autumn, a school for life, has been passed and implemented under the existing law. So he doesn't need any changes and additions to the laws that we're putting into this respectable home right now. Also some other institutions from the education education system can also propose an experimental programme. Clearly if the school proposes an experimental program, then it must prove that it has conditions, and if the ministry proposes or asks for a call to report schools, then schools must also provide conditions, which are required by such an invitation. In the follow-up, the extended-stay organisation has also been regulated, so far it has not been regulated by law. It is clearly stated, which means the duration of the course per day, in art. 15. that amends Article. 51st in a way, it says that regulation is applied in primary school for students, therefore, to mandatory subjects, and when we talk about secondary schools, then the annual and weekly teaching hours are prescribed by a curricula and curricula, while the total number of weekly hours should not exceed 40. So the total number of weeks, can't exceed 40. What we have also added is that in the formation of class departments, we know that public administration offices, determine the number of grade departments in primary schools, we have added here, with the previous opinion of the founders, in order to make the founders more clearly involved in this whole implementation process. It is also prescribed that the assessment of the rule is now established, publicly, in the class, at the end of the school year and thus not only the evaluations of the case, but also the assessments of the rule are equally determined. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 18th amending Art. The 75th is now clearly said that teachers perform additional work within fourfold working hours. Just to remind you, supplemental work refers to working with students, who are rated negatively from one or two cases, at the end of the school year. That extra class is from 10 to 25 hours that way here and regulated. The article has also been promoted. In 84, which speaks of pedagogical measures, where the pedagogical measures are more clearly prescribed, and the names of the pedagogical measures themselves have not been changed, however, has been amended in paragraph 3 where pedagogical measures are said to be pronounced for the current year, except for the move to another school that is valid until the end of primary school education. So that's now a change in that sense. I will also mention here that the regulations relating to the selection of school principals have been changed, in a way that, in addition to the existing obligations, means, which conditions must be met by the director, I think it is very important to repeat that although we have repeated it many times over the past few days. No matter who is running for director, there are conditions that must be met, these are primarily completed by the relevant college, then, at least 8 years of work or, in education, a professional examination, a certificate of impunity, a confirmation that no criminal proceedings are being conducted against the person. So everybody has to do it, there's no exception. What is further important, also to add here the obligation to develop a work plan for the five-year period for which it appears to be the director when reporting for the competition. It is also a right to be promoted, so I would also say the obligation to further regulate the tendering procedures, so that they are described, i.e., the criteria in the elections that are not necessarily prescribed only as these basic necessary criteria of the law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 25. which is an amendment to the article, which shall be added beyond Article 25. 99th, like 99A. The work on European projects, which we are sure will be used by many to make better use of European funds, as well as those of school employees working on European projects, is recognised. Here they now have the right and the ability to recognize their work now, not the way that the part, the share of work that works on projects, can increase their wages by 30%. It is also foreseen that the school institution can establish a working relationship with a fixed time contract, with a project-working institution and that the salary funds provided within the projects can also be higher by 30% compared to the highest prescribed coefficient for job advisers in school institutions. There we have received a lot of questions from schools, a lot of questions from founders, because it is extremely important that schools have the opportunity not only to withdraw funds, but also to those working on it, have the opportunity to be rewarded for their work, which is of course very complex, meaningful and of great benefit to the entire education system. There is also an improved section relating to the provision of surpluses and deficits, which means if a teacher, a teacher, a technical surplus in a particular school is to take care of him, to keep records of all such surpluses and deficits in the city office, but here is a novelty and we have agreed with the social partners, with the unions, that this is in fact specifically prescribed by the way the work is done, or the criteria are prescribed by the minister's rules. Of course we'll consult the social partners. In addition, on the other hand, the way in which all candidates for employment in school institutions are granted equal access to public services under equal conditions, or the evaluation of candidates who are registered in a tender or candidate who has sent a public administration office or city office, this shall be governed by the school institution's rules. So the school institution's rules now need to be arranged and the employment that makes it more transparent, clearly that part applies to directors. More precisely, provisions for the assessment of work capacity and the right to severance are also defined. I have already explained this about the appointment of the Director, so this is an amendment to Article 127 where it is clearly said that the Director is obliged to submit a work programme for the term of office which should then be presented to the school board, but of course to all other bodies that decide on the selection of directors. In Article 41, we refer to the principle 9 that parents should be entitled to be aware of all the contents covered by the curriculum and the program and the school curricula which is then implemented by making all these content available at the school’s network stations, and the parent should also give consent to the participation of students in all the above mentioned content except in teaching subjects which are part of the educational standard. So where it does not give consent, these are mandatory items and electoral items once selected, which means everything that is in the educational sense justified, and is, must be based on scientific knowledge, modern methodical approaches in this sense, is not subject to choice. Furthermore, Article 42, which amends Article 142 or supplements it, speaks of the construction of schools or infrastructure. So far, the central state has participated in the construction of schools for children with disabilities or schools that have programmes in the language and letter of national minorities. Here we have seen more cases that we can put and secure, which we need to provide support and resources directly from the state budget. Here I will mention expenses for building and upgrading the reconstruction of the school space and equipping school institutions in cases where we have insufficient safety and threat to the lives and health of students of the school. Examples of this are often mentioned Nikola Andric elementary school from Vukovar, or Vladimir Control primary school from Pribislavac, where it is really important for the state to take over intervention in such cases. In addition, if the State budget provides resources, it may participate in public private partnership projects in accordance with the provisions of specific rules governing the public private partnership or in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme and the available resources. In addition, here is the process of care, I mentioned that teachers, teachers who are a technological surplus, enter into the process of care, and that they are allowed to work in other schools by means of the State Administration Office. In this process, we have also made it clear to the directors who, after three or more terms of office, have not been re-appointed. You know that according to the law, if the Director, after the first or second term, is kept in place at the school, it is no longer the case after the third term, and here we have allowed the directors to participate in this case, in accordance with their qualifications. Well, I'm sure we've been through all the most important changes. I call you to a reasoned and constructive debate, I look forward to your comments that will be in the direction of improving this law because let us not forget that this is a fundamental Law on Education and Education which then provides us with reform processes and that really gives us the opportunity to equip schools with quality quality, not only infrastructure, but that these documents that are in preparation are really the basis for promotion. Thank you very much, and I'm looking forward to having another discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85018	I thank the minister. We've got a lot of replicas, but before that, only one piece of information. So the transfer went to the 4th HRT programme, and when you spoke to your colleague Zekanovic and colleague Pernar, so that the intervention was completely unnecessary and did not correspond to the truth. Only the truth is that both our viewers and colleagues and colleagues in the assembly know that there was no impediment to seeing the speech of the MPs and that the transfer went to HRT on the 4th program.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85019	Excuse me, may I make contact? I didn't mention television, so my colleague Pernar was a clear live stream, so it's about an online transmission that wasn't. So neither colleague Pernar nor I told a single lie, we told the truth. ... that we lied. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So the transmission wasn't there and you can check he's not on the Internet yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85020	Okay. There are probably technical reasons, but if the session is transferred to the 4th HRT programme then there is obviously no intention of hiding anything. So in this context of concealing and calling that it's not democracy here, but tyranny, which my colleague Pernar did, I think we need to fence around and be clear about that. So now we move on to replicas. First up, you're a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85021	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honors Minister. I've got it here, and I believe most of the others have a very visible verse of how you work. So that's how you first introduced an experimental program, meaning a new curricula at school, and now we're talking about the Law on Education and Education. I think they're, like, building a house and making a roof first, and then after that, you're building walls around that roof. I think it's definitely the wrong order. And I'm interested in a specific question. In your work or in this Law, were you going to follow those rules that led to the selection of the Head of the Expert Working Group, or would you choose the best or the ones that you liked? In particular, Mr. Glumcic was the best in the competition, and you've conditioned the prime minister of the government of the Republic of Croatia not to accept him. So, the best or the ones you like.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85022	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85023	Well, first of all, I'd be very pleased if you'd listened to my explanation, obviously not. And I made it clear that for an experimental program that has been entering schools since autumn, we have a foundation in the existing law. You could have read that yourself. So that's the first thing. The second thing, I always follow the principle that the best and those who meet all the conditions have the right to the championship. It's a nice wave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85024	The second is Annka's respected colleague, Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85025	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Minister, in your opening statement, you have somehow directed us to discuss in the debate the Law and the elements that are probably under the impression of everything that happened last week and that went from your ministry to the appointment of a director. I think this is an excellent opportunity to actually answer what happened, which was the problem, why the Croatian public got excited, what kind of recommendations it was going on, by the more the resolution minister who was in charge of the defence problem somehow said that maybe you didn't understand or something. I think this is an ideal opportunity for you to see, in the assembly of both the Croatian public and us, to answer what was the problem and what had happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85026	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85027	Thank you very much. This isn't direct, but it's indirect about the law. I'm already in the presentation of the show. So, the necessary conditions prescribed by the Law apply to all, regardless of the right, so what would be the basis for the exercise of the right. So all candidates who would be eligible candidates must have completed colleges, have eight years in the education system, have a professional exam, must not be punished. And that's what it said in that direction. Some have, of course, misjudged it on purpose or accidentally interpreted it. So that's true for everyone. What we have aligned in the meantime with the minister and his legal service, is that it comes from our resolute law, the Law on Education and Education. This specifically comes from our Law, which is the basis of the Law on Croatian Defence. And there's no dilemma. So everyone has to meet these necessary conditions, what we further improve the system like I said. So there's no dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85028	We're going to the third line. Dear colleague Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85029	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, this is 12 amendments to the 2008 Act. I guess 13. It'll be the new law. This really doesn't make sense anymore. I just have a few questions. You have received proposals from associations of Croatian high school directors on the text of the bill, I do not know the answer. The parliamentary board, according to the report I received, also has no position, only that it has been discussed. So I'm wondering, what about the obligation to license directors and did you receive representatives of the school directors' and primary school directors' association according to their request for an emergency meeting in connection with the selection procedure and appointment of school directors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85030	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85031	Thank you very much. As for the meeting with the principals, yesterday afternoon has been requested, tomorrow will be held since I am here today, here in the Parliament. We accepted, of course, some of the remarks earlier, so first of all, I mentioned this process of taking care of the director after the third term. What is difficult to accept is that after three or four mandates, the director returns to his place of work at school because he may not even be from that school and the question of who and how should now be told who the surplus is if the director returns to that place, but after the second term is, so after the second term the job is still kept in the way prescribed by the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85032	Let's move on. Dear fellow Panenic, it's you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85033	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here I would just as we had a recent debate in the county assembly, two of the problems mentioned to you that have a significant impact on the standard. This will be specific for primary schools. The first time I looked at a network of school institutions in preparation, I found that it was not in line with the real situation on the ground, that we had a number of primarily district schools that were closed. So, in your network they're still standing as active, but in the field they're not like that. And secondly, this decision on criteria and criteria for financing current expenditure. A number of schools that have a small number of students, they get per student, per department, so we have schools, for example. elementary school... which receives 1720 kuna for current expenditure, means teaching material, transportation of municipal waste, protection at work, telephone... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so we have a series of schools. I think these are the criteria that should change quickly because they make it impossible for such schools to actually work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85034	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85035	Thank you very much. As far as the school network is concerned, we'll review it, but some schools are only temporarily closed. I will now mention to you the Zlarin elementary school which has been closed for several years, now open and fortunately has a respectable number of children. So, we're going to review the network accordingly. As far as school financing is concerned, what you mention is funded by the founders' funds, and as a state, we as a decentralised means based on decentralised functions. This year these funds are increasing, I think the increase of 4% is not sure, but I know that the funds are increased but I agree with you that this should further increase and work on it and that it really needs to improve the standard in schools, there I absolutely expect the support of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85036	Thank you. Now it's time for the esteemed fellow Mattelian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Minister. You said in your opening statement when you were talking about this law how this law has improved employment procedures. However, one procedure certainly has not been improved, and this is the election procedure of the director. In spite of the fact that you may have tightened the criteria or seriousised the criteria for his choice in the key section, which is who makes the decision on the selection of directors continues to play a major, crucial role in politics, i.e. founders, counties, or mayors. I won't talk about other counties, although the situation is probably the same, I'll tell you about my Karlovac County where you can't be the principal of either primary school or high school, you can't even be a cleaning lady in elementary school or high school, you can't even be a mouse in the basement of a primary school unless you're compatible with the mayor or county current policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85038	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85039	Thank you very much. Yes, the selection process of the director has been improved by this proposal in such a way that they have to submit a work plan for a five-year period, and the school can also prescribe and adopt a Employment Regulation where it further sets out additional criteria that are specific to the school, also for the principal. As for the school boards, the founders do not have a majority, the founders have three members, and a total of seven members. So there was left on the Council of Teachers, or Teachers' Council, the Working Council, or the Parents' Council, therefore 3, 4 are not counties or founders are not in the majority. As it seems in certain cases, it's now difficult to comment, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85040	Let's move on, now it's time for your esteemed colleague Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85041	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates. Here I was listening to the attention of your presentation, talking about the 21st century school, and I'm glad we're going to the 21st century and school. You're talking about European law, the Convention on the Protection of Rights, the Protection of Children's Rights, and you keep saying that. I agree that everything revolves around education around children, but I think we can agree on good and quality education there is no without satisfied teachers and teachers. And I have to say, I listen to myself every day and talk to teachers and teachers, they're not happy with this case and these laws. If they did one survey, they would see that indeed one large majority of dissatisfied teachers and teachers. And we've got to figure it out, and we've got to do something about it. We must restore the dignity and respect of professors and teachers, that's the point of education. Today, we have in schools that an irresponsible child has more rights than those responsible and those eager to learn. However, this is repeated, and I have not heard a single word about the protection of teacher’s rights and dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85042	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85043	Thank you. I agree, and it is a fact that without a satisfied and motivated teacher there is no quality education system, so I thank you for saying that. As far as we're concerned, what we're doing now is based on this law. We are making changes to the rules on promotion or award in a way that we are really going to ask teachers to be the ones involved in this debate and to give the criteria by which teachers should be rewarded. In the past, the salaries have also increased 6%, and this law allows 30% of the addition if it works on eu projects, we provide education. Here I can now say that we have more than 5,500 teachers, teachers in the environment for education, which I think given the time and number of people involved is certainly the largest education in Croatia since the 1990s. So in that sense, we should think about it all and thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85044	Let's move on. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85045	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister. What my colleague Bauk would say just before, nor are you a teacher in NDH, nor are we representatives in the Croatian National Assembly. You came here to present a law guaranteeing the school of the future, and in the opening speech you brought us back to the past. As Minister of Education, you should know that this is not the Croatian National Assembly, but the Croatian Parliament. So here I am begging you at the beginning to apologize for how you welcomed us and to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And for all this other law-related stuff, we'll have a chance to discuss it through debate on behalf of the club and individual debate. Please have a nice apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85047	Excuse me. Of course I meant the Croatian Parliament, this was a lapus in every way. Thank you for reminding me of that, I am sure that in the following talks I said later Croatian Parliament. It's not funny, but I didn't get into your word, so here I am asking you all to accept my apology, of course, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85048	Please don't let us lead this way again from the pole of controversy. Now let's go to the next line, dear colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85049	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister. I have one question, so when we were already going to change the Law on Education and when we swear that our teachers are important to us, why didn't you change the Educational Inspection Regulation? We are one of the few countries in the EU that has an anonymous one, so the parent is enough to report the professor anonymously, last year there were 70, 80 anonymous applications from professors. So these applications are sometimes really ridiculous, for example the professor is applying for a four from art education, the educational inspection comes to an insight, the government's money is being spent, most of these applications are being rejected, which is why they wouldn't bring me an amendment to the regulations to get the application against the professors signed, as they have other countries, and thus reduce the pressure of parents on teachers and teachers?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85050	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85051	Thank you for asking. So unfortunately, it's not about the Regulation, it's about the Law of Educational Inspection, so it's a little longer procedure of change, we're going to provide for a plan of normative activity for next year. Anyway, thank you for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85052	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85053	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister. Here's a chance that finally the funds that can be withdrawn for schools, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers will be able to withdraw, but I'm interested in what will happen to those teachers who will be on a particular job, on a teacher's captain who is engaged in EU backgrounds, because we know that the projects last for 2, 3 years and I'm interested in saying that if the teacher is involved in a 20% project, it's about 360 kuna, and I'm curious to know why the teachers would take on so much responsibility to work on the project, because it's extremely complex because of 360 kuna and how the people who left their 20% watch and also those who took over that 20%, their stations if the employee who's on the project decides to leave the project because he doesn't have a contractual relationship, and the working relationship that he has to have to? Just stop being a member of the project team.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85054	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85055	Thank you very much. So the increase refers to the share of working time that a person is working on the project, which means if it works 100% then the total amount is, however, if it is 50%, then to that amount that he is working on the project and it is fair given the engagement on the project. The fact that all this increase and payment of this work comes through the project, which allows the school to hire someone else to the available funds that would now be paid to the teacher who is working on the project. Of course, when it comes to the project and the engagement on the project, it is not an arbitrary relationship again, of course a solution is made, a decision which makes it clear which parties are in the agreement, but it is already a legal story. However, it must be made clear at what time, who and what means, it is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85056	Let's move on. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85057	Dear Ministers, you often talk about education reform, how unconstitutional it is, how you day by day realize what you have drawn, besides your party who has set you up, justifies the coalition with HDZ with this education reform, but we see that the position of teachers, teachers, teachers is not improving. They talked to their colleagues about how this administration and the pressure on them by both the ministry and educational inspection and parents themselves are getting bigger and bigger, how their working conditions are getting worse and worse, I personally know that they copy tests themselves, copy tasks that they give to their students because schools don't have enough resources without talking about their salaries. There is no minister of real education reform without improving the position of teachers, teachers and teachers and without improving their working conditions, and very little or almost nothing is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85058	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85059	Thank you very much. Once again, of course, without motivated teachers, there's no good school. I've been Minister for 11 months, I think we've done a lot. But still not enough here, as I said, I also count on representatives in the Croatian Parliament to help with the budget when we are definitely looking for an increase in the work for education and education, i.e. for higher education and science. We agreed on a collective contract of new rights, and I didn't mention it any more, for teachers and teachers. So they're worth the next four years, the salaries have been increased, and I'm sure according to the state budget, we'll also reward those who have volunteered for the projects as well. So so far, the projects have been volunteering. What else is done? There was a plan and administrative discharge. I think it'll make all the teachers, teachers that we're now applying and talking about in experimental schools, and then we'll introduce them to all the schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85060	Let's move on. Dear colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85061	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, in your presentation, you said something, you mentioned in fact, and it is in the description of the state of this law that funds are actually being provided in the state budget for expenditures by projects related to public, private partnership. So I'm wondering if you know how many projects this is? And what amount should be secured by the state budget? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85062	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85063	Thank you very much. At this point, there are no projects that would be negotiated in this population, but in fact this article opens up the possibility that the Government will make such a decision in accordance with the means available. But at this point, there's nothing of course agreed, just opening that possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85064	Now it's your honorary colleague, Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85065	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, Article 99a seems to have come from a need for time, and it is good that it is being inserted, but it is a little vague for me, I hope that in the debate we will explain it a little bit, but now I want only one question in this brief replica. There are school principals and school secretarys and accountants. How is it actually possible to plan a project, any project, if they don't participate in it? And then is it possible for them, if there's talk here about the law on their reduction of weekly obligations to work on the project, is it even possible to do it? I'm interested in school secretaries being in a worse position anyway, you know that and well that they spoke to you, how will they be involved in these projects in this act of amending the law, and will they be able to reward themselves for this job?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85066	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85067	Yes, they are included, because these provisions apply to all school employees, meaning that both secretaries or lawyers or other technical services involved in projects can participate under the same conditions as prescribed, so they also have the right to raise salaries if they work on the project in the project they are working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85068	Dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85069	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honors Minister. I'm glad you apologized for this, although I was kind of expecting you to notice it immediately and apologize. I would like to ask you something, given that there have been very many objections in the consultation itself by social workers' associations, social workers' chambers regarding the need to reintroduce a social worker to school. So I'm really interested in your position on this point, and we know that just ten years ago, social workers came out of the system as professional associates, and right now, about six of them seem to be, by some data, I don't know exactly what kind of contracts they have, but here I'm really interested in your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85070	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85071	Well, look, we're using the state pedagogical standard to set certain standards, so that's what we'd like in schools. It is clear that in schools we could hire more people to support, I am sure that it would be justified, but in the given circumstances and with this standard that we now have, it is not possible. Will this be possible in the adoption of new laws when the needs exist are analysed, but for now these professional teams are who they are in schools, and we haven't even changed that part in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85072	Now it's your honorary colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85073	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, there's a lot of talk here about reform, especially the loud side of your HNS that speaks of it as moving mountains and doing new world wonders in Croatia and I am here as a parent who is involved in the education of my children I see nothing. I see that teachers continue to work for embarrassingly low wages, I see, for example, that my school in the centre of Zagreb, as it is only elsewhere, is not equipped, windows fall from it, the oldest school in the city of Zagreb, invests little or nothing, you talk about the funds of hundreds of millions of euros from EU funds that we also don't see in Croatia, and you talk about experimental programs, curricula and everything else, but nothing happens in practice. So I'd like it concretely, 12 months isn't as little as a minister, I'd really like to see your results, except a lot of stories, and I'm especially glad to hear the story of the Vrdoljak who knows about it very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85074	Thank you, Comrade Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85075	Well, I'm not going to answer those political statements of yours, I don't think it suits me, but I'm going to say that reform certainly can't be introduced within a school year in a way that we in the middle of the year change something that takes real time. And to do a lot, it's done. 5500 teachers and teachers are currently in education. 170 mentors working with them. For experimental schools we got 51 sets of new textbooks, that's what this is about. The equipment's secure. And whether the city of Zagreb provides funds for investment equipment schools, I cannot decide on it, that you as a parent, responsible parent can ask where it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85076	My colleague Maras is looking for the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85077	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Secretary hurt the Rules of Procedure because she said my line wouldn't fit, and then she did. This is Article 238, so she falsely informed the Parliament about what she would do and I will tell you, she cannot act on the principle of "all that is well I am responsible, and what is wrong with schools is the responsible mayor of Zagreb", so you are talking about hundreds of millions of euros and I am falling windows from school in the centre of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85078	Comrade Maras, you know what follows you now. My colleague, Maras, follows your warning, I will not remove my finger, you have received a warning, and if you do not sit down and do not allow it to continue, I will give you another warning and you will lose your right to speak. Here's a seat. Now it's time for your esteemed colleague, Bunjac, come in. [[I'll sit down, no problem.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85079	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am interested in how you intend to do so in a quality way to regulate the education system when you have allowed budgets for 2018 to decrease by a percentage compared to earlier periods and also projections for next year to show that these funds will be further reduced. So Croatia is already at the very bottom of the educational separation right now. Some European countries stand out as many as 3 times as Croatia, and it is not clear how we can catch up with these countries if we continue to allow funds for your ministry to be reduced. So do you have any guarantees, or can you at least do something to increase these funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85080	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85081	So this year we have 617 million more in the budget than it was last year so I don't know how it can be less. Likewise, we have investments from European funds both in schools and high schools and in science. Here yesterday we signed contracts worth nearly a billion kunas for scientific infrastructure, and in this way I think we use funds and this law allows those in schools to also work on EU funds for additional rewards. Well, I don't see where you got the data, but we can check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85082	And the last replica, dear fellow Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85083	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, one suggestion at the beginning, in another reading. I ask you to clarify the state's relationship, you're decentralised of attitude and what the founder's obligations are because it is obviously not clear to some colleagues, after a long stay in the Parliament, which is unfortunate. Second, as far as the principal is concerned, it's caused a lot of debate. Namely, you listed in the section, which references they should have. From experience from both local and regional levels, very well, I know, that the success of the school depends on the first man as well. It shouldn't be a rule, but unfortunately, that's how it is. So you may also be aware that the principal depends on the size of the school, and I hear here in the assembly that windows fall, etc. Is it possible, through the law itself, to regulate a different relationship between the founders, directors and the resolution ministry, that the ministry has greater control over the founder?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85084	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85085	Thank you very much. Of course, the founders' obligations are very clear with investment maintenance with added pedagogical standards, in the sense that, apart from what is provided by the state, founders, they can really and often work in this direction and good cooperation with the directors. It's also clear that we've expanded here into law, this part of the state budget, for which they can be used in the building school, in investment maintenance. And as for relations and clearer clarifications, which are the founder's obligations, which are the ministry's obligations in that part, here's what I accept your suggestion and for the second reading, we'll do that part a little more clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85086	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, the Honorable representative of Sladolev will speak, who will share time with counterpart Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with State Secretarys. Here, we have before us the amendments to the Law and the addition of the Law on Education and Education. In fact, they happen at the end of the school year, when the pressure on teachers is the highest and when we will have enrolment fever again, and when we will have 80% of the medals at the end of the school year in primary school, where that number of high school dignitaries will drop drastically. And so we had reason for these changes, that it would actually be a school in the 21st century. I will try here in my debate to present my skeptics and my proposals constructively, how to make these amendments to the law better. In fact, most of the debate will actually apply, I think today in the Croatian Parliament, to this provision that teachers participate in EU projects and that they will be paid up to 30% higher. I think it's a provision that doesn't really touch the very essence of professors and teachers, which is why they were educated and why they actually attended their colleges. That provision may be good, but it will not improve the professor's material status. And it is on one hand discriminating against teachers who do not want or who actually do not know how to withdraw money from EU funds. So, the role of a teacher in school, the primary role in school, is not to withdraw money from EU funds, but to raise and educate students. And I personally believe, therefore, that originality should be evaluated in the school on the material side, in these areas as well. What I find controversial in this provision is that only EU projects are favored. What if some teacher gets from another source project, e.g. I don't know Zagreb banks, half a million kuna and he brought that money to school, but the teacher has nothing to do with it, because it's not from the EU project. Why is this man not paid, just because the money is not from the EU project. What is controversial in this article, therefore, Art. 25-- paragraphs 2 and 6 I think they're the opposite. In accordance with Article 4(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It is now a question, if the week's commitment to work on the project is reduced, the school must hire someone to replace it at the time. So the state pays the exchange, so the professor at the time. And now I ask the question, if a professor of mathematics from Slavonia decides and gets money from EU projects, the state has to pay, therefore, the replacement of that professor of mathematics, and the professor of mathematics is not on the labour market. So who's gonna replace him at the time? Then, it is not specified what EU projects are. So, is this a school-related project, because projects can be completely unrelated to education. What I would also like to problem is the problem of problem with schooling and the number of politicians on our school boards choosing the director. So, again, I would like to emphasise that this money and withdrawal from EU projects, is the primary task of the school's founder, i.e. cities and counties. And now, with this provision, in some ways, we're depriving, in some ways, responsibility for school, and they're the founders of school. So, we, these amendments, the additions to the law, in my opinion, deprive the founder of the school of certain provisions, but other provisions in very frequent cases, those staffing directors through the school board, i.e. through politicians on school boards. Also in Art. In 39, they would suggest that the director can be appointed to a maximum of two mandates per five years, at present it is infinite. In the new law, it is also proposed that the construction and upgrade of the reconstruction of old schools can be co-financed from the state budget, so as an example, I would like to set an example of the restoration of an old school in Vukovar which now does not have to be financed by the local self-government unit, as well as the risk that counties or cities will relax because they will always count on the state so the state will do so. And again, the problem with school founders' relations here should be regulated. In Article 79, there is an interesting provision that I have noticed, says how many times a high school student can repeat the class. It was also introduced in Article 20 that a class can be repeated more than twice in justified cases, with the agreement of the Minister. So with all due respect to Ms. Minister's expertise, I don't think she can determine whether the student will repeat the class three times or not, so I think it should be hardened by the Teacher's Council. In Article 11 of the Couriculum Obligation until 30.9 and the plans and programmes until 5.10, these deadlines are now extended by law. The plan and programme are scheduled until 15.10, which is de facto almost half a year. So it's about the teacher entering the class and not knowing what to do and how to do because he's not obliged to come up with a plan for work. These plans, of course, need to provide school activities and it would be useful to bring them in already during the summer, but teachers should deprive the administrative parts so that they can deal with their real work, which is, among other things, the adoption of a plan and programme already at the 9th month. So I will also mention this provision that concerns not the law but the amendment of the Law on Educational Inspection, so I repeat that we are the only country in the EU where the educational inspection is required to go out on the ground because of the fours of art, music, religion, mathematics is paid by taxpayers anyway. So it's necessary to change that part of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85088	Here will be continued by the esteemed representative, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85089	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you, colleague Marco, for leaving me some time. So the law is widespread, someone here said that these are already 13 changes if I understand correctly, and these changes are now extensive. I would not agree with my colleagues that these changes are now starting something new in Croatian education. Croatian education is a stable system, such as it rests on the shoulders of many valuable teachers, professors, professional associates and ultimately hardworking ministries. I think these changes have gone towards improving the existing provisions and adding some new ones for which the need has arisen. I'll get right out of it, that's article 99a, my colleague Sladolev mentioned it to me, and it's really not clear to me, I hope that we will succeed through these two readings understand, 30% increase, discharging the weekly commitments in that proportional ratio that a worker accepts on the project itself, but we are going back to the secretaries, accountants and directors, it's hard for me to understand that they will be relieved. How he'll be relieved, the accountant has to work on his salary. You have predicted here the truth and new employment from the funds of eu funds, I think that this article he is a lot when you agree he is quite engrossed and I hope we can fix it because this is how I'm afraid that in practice he would not be impeccable or difficult to implement. The Ministry of Science and Education affects people of six months of life, so it's actually our whole life if we take a lifetime of education. We still had on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Proposed Law on Extra for Children today and you see how expanded that is. There was a high degree of correlation between the poverty rate and the degree of education of the population. This is especially evident in less developed counties. And the conditions in Croatian schools are not the same everywhere. And for that, Minister, I invite you to send your men to school to record the exact situation. We have a school where we have 500 students, and no educators, we have a school, say, where there are 200 students and you have a secretary for half the time, an accountant for half the time, and a school that has half the students, and they have these people full-time. So the school conditions aren't the same. As far as parent competences are concerned here, which is also the same as a colleague of Sladolev in the replica mentioned, it is important to emphasize, often and mostly not competent enough to assess and the work of teachers themselves is then going with these unnecessary applications, so the inspection is wasting time. I think that we need to sort it out a little bit and support these demands to finally, let's say, conditionally achieve some kind of phasing-out procedure between parents and teachers because there is a misunderstanding here precisely because of the lack of professional competence. Secretary of Croatian Schools, you are familiar with this problem, that what is minimally required to equalise their coefficient to be in the ranks of professional associates and you wrote well is not the subject of these changes. But for all those people who work at school, be understanding, and in any future changes or new law, take into account. One more thing I'd like to say when we talk about conditions in Croatian schools, we can't not mention it, we have children who are hungry in Croatian schools today. We have solved in elementary schools, since primary school is mandatory, we have a resolved school diet, but it is so unequal in certain schools that it is frightening because not all units of local self-government and all founders can co-finance equally. Somewhere co-financed at 100%, somewhere it's less co-financing and simply children don't eat well enough, diet is extremely important for children's development. And then we have a high school where the situation is catastrophic. Only high school students in the Republic of Croatia have no form of a subsidized diet. No form of organized diet. You know that counterpart Biljana Borzan in the EU is struggling to ban the sale of energy potions to people under 18, children. In this context, it is also important to mention the diet of high school students who, according to all studies, are extremely unquality. They're mostly offered this so-called. Fast food, drinks with a large amount of sweetener and it is not good and in that sense should the Ministry in the future think. At the end of this debate, I wanted to mention the Director's question. It is good that according to the existing Law, we did not have a practical part of the change. It's good that most of the representatives of the parents are and so to speak, the chambers and the workers of the school, so 4 versus 3 founders, that's good. To remove political paws from schools despite what the founders say we give money, it is true, but the Ministry gives more money, the state gives the most money to schools through the salaries of teachers and professional associates, and that money is given by all the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore it must not happen that individual founders act in such a way that they manage the school as if it were entirely theirs because we have a series of schools, after all, built long before some act of founding has declared their rights over that school. In the end, one thing about the principal. You see, I couldn't be head of school because I wasn't a member of HDZ at the time. I was a defense attorney. That was before, there 2007/2008. A year. In that sense, I think this leaflet or this memo you sent might be clumsy, I don't know why, maybe you shouldn't have sent it at all. Everyone has a duty to uphold the law, and I don't think the principals should be privileged in this case, that's my personal position, my defenders. Because then someone else is being wronged. The most competent people, people who know and want to work and have enough competence for the job should come to the position of the principal, and then here, why do I mention it? It is not clear to me that the director proposes a work programme because I do not see anywhere in the Law that you have written who will prescribe the content of this programme and how this programme will be presented because it can happen that not all candidates will be in the same position to make this programme again in cooperation with the founder, with the Ministry, because how man will make a programme if there is no basic guidance in the future, at the end of the-end and fiscal opportunity of the school if it is not addressed, and wants to apply for this important job. By the second reading we'll still take the final stand, otherwise I'm proposing a change going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85090	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected Croatian representative will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, my colleague, Sagar, was either the headmaster of the school or he was supposed to be headmaster of the school, so he looks at the way schools are managed from a different aspect than I am, since I was in the role of the founder's representative, so it looks a little different. And that's why I'm going to start this debate on behalf of the Club in fact with the article on the school boards and say that I don't think the current way of choosing school boards is well balanced and that simply the founder doesn't have any role and function on the school board since he's a minority. Realizing that no parent will be against the school, against the teachers, against the principal, will always be inclined, to that part of the school board from the ranks of the school, while the founder stays on the sidelines, and there may be major problems and disagreements although, in general, it will always be settled and can work well, but you have different examples that happen, here I was last night on the city council of the town of Križevci where I experienced the transfer of hot potatoes to possible potential responsibilities between the directors of a cross-country school and mayor. Which will be, who will be guilty if the project of over 10 million kuna fails to be realized. And now we come up with such problems, and otherwise my proposal is to see the possibility of changing the way the school boards are chosen, in a way that the founder has three members, that the employees have one member, that teachers and teachers have one member and that the parents have one member, that it be an even number, that it be six, and that in the event of a vote being equalized, at some point, the president of the school board has a crucial role. And one more thing, it's not right that in schools the president of the school board can be chosen without a representative of the school boards from the founders' ranks, it's certainly not right. They become really ficuses and serve nothing but to cover some kind of democracy and some sort of fictitious school management. And that's why I think the law should change that part and determine that the president of the school board is always a member of the school board of founders. Let's balance it out. The second part that is not an integral part of the amendments to this Law in the first reading, but very seriously and clearly here I ask the Minister and the Service to consider the possibility in any way to make one amendment to the law until the second reading, which will ultimately be a condition of my personal support to the law in the second reading. It's about the transfer of founding rights. So it's not the subject of amending this law right now, but it's causing major problems for some local self-government units on the ground. You have a situation where individual cities, especially after there has been a change of the Law on the financing of local self-government, have good fiscal potential, want to take care of the management of their schools. The mayoral congregations do not want to pass on their founding rights. The law which is now in force, the article which is now not proposed by these amendments, is in principle still in force. We have certain things that are wrong, in that same article of the law, we have a situation to automatically transfer founding rights at the request of the national minority. Without any debate in the representative body of the founders to be transferred and at the request of the city, a contract must be signed between the county which is, as a rule, the founder and the city that is there. That's not right at all. And in that part of the law of the article, it is absolutely necessary to make an amendment and allow units of local self-government to simply, if they have fiscal capacity, if they have all the conditions that they need to be assessed to manage schools on their own, that the representative body of the regional self-government of the county must automatically transfer the founding rights to local self-government units, as a rule, are cities. One such example that I was already talking about here behind this speaker is an example of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and the town of Chazema, which since last year has been buying free textbooks, complete equipment for its students, for its schoolboys, and cannot take over the founding rights. The ceilings are falling, children's lives are being threatened, and there's no real city that can do anything about it because it's probably not some political vibrations well-assembled between the county government and the city government and it just doesn't want to make such a transfer. I ask you honourable ministers to find a model and a way to allow the problem of words and to allow units of local self-government that have both fiscal capacity and human resources to be able to pass on to themselves without any political manipulations, founding rights of schools or to enable secondary activities if necessary, that if regional self-government does not want to transfer founding rights and local self-government has what it is necessary to have, that these founding rights are passed on to the Government's proposal, because in this way I do not think that we are going towards decentralisation but also further local centralisation. There are other cases like this in the Republic of Croatia, I won't mention them here, talk about them, but we still have in some counties the same examples we meet daily. Schoolwork, article 42, was pleased with the changes to this law, and I have a few questions, a few better explanations, especially regarding school-sports halls. So, there are mid-units of local self-government that definitely, with the improvement of fiscal capacity, are not able to build a school-sports hall today to meet the needs of physical education for students and to ultimately improve student safety. The special thing is tied here in this amendment. Costs for the construction, construction and reconstruction of the school space and the equipment of school institutions in cases of insufficient safety and life-bits and health of school students established by the basis of a ban order, etc. So here I'm talking about also such child safety conditions. For example, the Ludevita Modeca cruise school has about 1000 students. The children go to the sports hall through three intersections, cross three roads, and go up to about 7 to 10 minutes to get to gym class. At the same time, the city has made a complete project documentation, a building permit for the school-sports hall next to that school. My question is, will these amendments in Article 42 be able to build and co-finance the school-sports halls primarily to maintain physical education and child safety? Not to mention, it would be necessary to include several hours of physical education in the programs. Today, as children are exposed to most of the techniques, mobiles, and the Internet, they are becoming less and less mobile and that we need to intervene in the Law on Education and Secondary Education today, in a way to mobilize and activate children to physical activities. I'd like to mention licensing. So we have a string of waists that have to renew their license every couple of years. Educational workers, educators, teachers, professors, pass a professional exam in that first year of work and then nothing more, if they want to advance to mentors, etc. Of course it's possible, but there's no obligation. I think that in today's day of this galloping progress, we really need to get on the ground a little bit and think about whether it's okay, whether it's necessary to set the rules that every few years license people who work with the most valuable things we have in society, with children. In any case, it helps those teachers, that they are constantly in even better monitoring of progress, and it primarily helps children. And it's not right that people from all kinds of other professions that don't deal with people, don't deal with children have to be licensed, and teachers don't have to. I know this probably won't make many teachers like it, but it's also for their own good, it's easier to follow. At the very least, these are people who have something special in them because they have decided to do some extremely difficult jobs, and they have decided to deal with child education and education. There is hardly anything more difficult to do than that, because it is most exposed to the public, the criticism and the problems that are happening. The consent of the Ministry of Employment. There's a lot of trouble here, and I think it can be a little loose and solved. Namely, it is not normal for someone to retire and then the directors have to write letters and memos to the ministry to get consent to the same job that exists, which is empty because a man has retired or because he may have left school, went to another job. It simply needs to be speeded up a little bit, automated, and allowed people to do it in a smoother way. It'll be for the good of everyone. Here I would also like to stress that in vocational education we should take a little more into account the labour market and that without interventions in the law on human employment, human employment and regulation, we will not experience progress in professions, we will not be able to transform schools, because schools are really looking at those directions for which they have staff. And we keep wondering why we're a step, two behind. In our first reading, we will support this law, for a second reading, I really ask the Ministers to examine all the possibilities of putting the change to the law on the transfer of founding rights, I repeat, I personally will not vote for amendments to the law unless it is resolved that schools can be transferred to local self-government, faster, simpler, and practically a certain automation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85092	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85093	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's a difficult topic in education. It has been particularly difficult in the past few years when it has been led by extremely difficult and extremely conflicting discussions in our society. For this reason, the SDSS Club and I, who I'm talking about today, have decided to talk about several topics, from what is scheduled to change with this bill. First of all, as regards members of the first old law, the version, and this existing bill of amendments, we do not know where some of the fundamental values of modern man, such as freedom, equality, solidarity, which we should all be taught about. We do not know where and on which path this suddenly turned the issue of national identity and nationality into more important than the issues of freedom, the issues of patriotism, the issues of equality and the issues of solidarity on which each social community rests. I think it's time to ask that question. Why is the issue of national consciousness more important than the issue of constitutional patriotism? When we all know, including those who are discussing topical open issues, we know that national consciousness and national identity can be a haven for all things, and constitutional patriotism and adherence to the law and the attachment of ethics can only be a refuge to extremely high and highest virtues. People were very nationally aware, and at the same time very predatory, when it's in the middle of a national fortune. Why don't we have more room in schools and the law doesn't? Let's pay more attention to that. Shouldn't that be the basic value, which should be supported in schools, primary schools, and secondary schools? We know what it is, I'm not sure about these other things if we know what it is. Of course patriotism in every school, in every national school, there should be room for it. And every community takes care of it, but it's based on legality, based on constitutionality. The same goes for the question of values, which parents have the right to enter into the school system and evaluate school programs, school facilities. You know if you looked at things like that, then between, and this bill, it actually opens up space to conflict between what's called scientific knowledge and what's called values, it opens space. Then, of course, it may occur to us that we extend the conflict at school and transfer them to relations between parents and children, which is inevitable, has always happened, but in my opinion, schools need to ensure the universality of knowledge and universality of the values that we follow, primarily based on the values of the Constitution and the values of the laws that apply or should be valid and should be in force in our country. In this respect, we will pay attention to the debate concerning this section, the amendment of the law. Another area seems particularly important to us, and that is the issue of extended stay. The extended stay, in schools here in these bill proposals, opens up as a possibility, so schools can have an extended stay. And we, especially you who have more knowledge, have more experience, have more knowledge, have more comparative cases, with which you can compare societies that have extended stay as inability, than permanent states. You know these schools and these societies are more successful in education than those who don't have it. Take Finland, why is Finland at the top? At the top of the world. In math and language? Because he has an extended education system, because children, everything they need to learn, all the obligations they need to have, learn at school. And they spend that time with their parents, who have parents and them at their disposal in matters that are in parental jurisdiction. For that, of course, it needs more money. For that, of course, it needs a different school. For such a different school and me and my club, we want to stand up and see that our school is failing. Because we see that this system of education is no longer the same as it used to be. This is my colleague Hrg rightly saying that he has no skills in sports, so there is no, of course. Because public and social areas ate a business apartment or a residential establishment, or a SPO, former playgrounds, former parks, former school facilities, they no longer have as their opportunities and their contents, nor has there been any more of that culture. But it's not just about that, it's not about the household anymore. There are no more serious opportunities to work on cultural content, or to work on the contents of another species, no more. And the extended stay would be an instrument through which we could follow it. Someone just told me what to do with it. I may be able to teach my child English in everyday communication or mathematics, but maybe my neighbor can't. I may be able to teach my child some social skills or social skills, but my brother may not, from various social and other aspects. The extended stay enables it to be universalized and that these skills are equally deployed to students, but therefore there should be more teachers, better equipped schools and more money for that. Is that how we're gonna make real citizens? We will. Will we thus create people who will be competent for different skills? Why multilingualism is on average high in Scandinavian countries and German countries compared to other parts of Europe and because they have this type of school system. The third thing I want to talk about is the issue of minority schools, their reconstruction, their construction and the model of a public private partnership. It is good to do something in this regard because it is really unacceptable for minority schools or a mixed national minority school of majority school, such as Nikola Andric, which you ministers mentioned, which you know, to be in a state in which only it does not pose a threat to teachers, to children, to the parents who enter it. And that needs to be changed. I don't know how many years it's been since we tried to do something, to secure the budget for that school. And we're not. Now we should tear down the budget to get the funding for Nikola Andric. Or other schools, I only cite her as an example. As for the transfer of the founding rights that were discussed here, it was a legal emergency solution because the county did not want to establish and did not want to register minority schools. And then there was a solution to how it would be done by transferring to units of local self-government of lower county. But that's not working either. We still have the fact today that this legal provision exists, but minority, Serbian schools cannot, can't be their founder, can't be the city of Vukovar, can't be the municipality of Borovo, or any other municipality, even though they have the right to do so under the law. We, ministers, too, expect this completely unreasonable and legal opposite attitude to change and that these schools finally get the status they de facto have, which can de facto be threatened at any moment because the school boards can change that status as they have changed in some cases. And if this is to be sought for other units of local self-government as requested by our colleague Hrg, we have nothing against it, it is not required to be an exclusive right of minority members but only required as a solution to bypass a block that existed at the county level as founder. And if that's something that's good for everyone, we'll back it up. If the counties are in any way hindering units of local self-government to take better care of and better care of the school system in their area, we support this regardless of whether it is minority schools or national programmes, the state, if there are justified reasons. A reasonable reason has been found here, but unfortunately that justifiable reason is not enough for the job to be done and we expect this job to be done. As far as the law itself is concerned, we think it's a good thing that it's been amended. 11, p. 1. and that this provision has been extended in terms of what can be covered by the concept of primary school and what they can do. It is good, therefore, that these can be regular, alternative, international programmes, language and letter programmes of national minorities, special training programmes for students with disabilities, etc. What I think is unnecessary in the first article, to go back to it is the relationship between economics and education. It exists and it will exist. But I'll tell you one thing. As soon as you say that education is to be answered by the market economy, you immediately condemned that school to what it can't be. So, what kind of economy is it in this country today? So as it is in most lands of today's world. Should we write the market then? It should not be written, because there can be different forms of economy and for this reason we support that this Law goes to another reading, with the remarks that I make here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85094	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Sanja Putica will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85095	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. She's an esteemed minister with co-workers. So today we have before us the roof law of the Ministry of Science and Education for all Croatian schools, a law that should be a prerequisite for the implementation of any reform processes in the system of education and education, a precondition for curricular reform. Generally speaking, the amendments and additions suggest a clearer definition of registration policy, primarily in high school, the possibility of moving from one school to another in an easier way, regulating the number of class departments in agreement with the founder, harmonising the pedagogical standard, minimum conditions for extended stay in primary schools, but also regulating and eliminating possible pedagogical measures that we know have so far been even beaten in enrolment in high school, as well as the way in which children with developmental difficulties and gifted children are implemented. Of course, the law also touches teachers, their famous 40-hour hours of work in the week, as well as ways of employment in schools. The network of schools can also be expanded by this law, normised of course, and a program for children with disabilities can be implemented in the future, as I have already said, as well as for gifted children. However, I would repeat the Ministers' request for consideration of the possibility of awarding first-place mentors in the country, so that it can also be in the financial plan of this law, in future in the Croatian budget, is an opportunity so that we can reward our teachers, or mentors in schools. We don't have too many kids like that, but I think it would be a good way to give them credit for their work. It is also possible to re-enroll in high school after leaving secondary education, as well as to regulate additional teaching work with students. Article 15 has been discussed on the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, with regard to the burden on students of class and class education. I think that it remains within what has been so far, i.e. it can be given the opportunity for students to simply have extra classes within the school itself, which I don't see, that I see as something good. I would just like to say that the network of schools, if its expansion is planned, must meet, of course, the necessary activities in a particular region of the Republic of Croatia, in order to meet the needs of markets and economies in a certain area. I would just like to point out something that may not be directly related to this law, and I see that the other representatives are also speaking naturally from the perspective of local, regional self-government leaders, and also from kindergarten, or preschool education. I know you've also come to the Ministry for a few dozen applications for opening kindergartens in buildings that are not exclusively residential, but also business and residential purposes. I also personally know in my city, Dubrovnik, that this is a major problem because of lack of spatial capacity, and then of course privates who are trying and able to obtain the subsidies of local self-government to open kindergartens have a problem with such spaces, I think this possibility should be considered, of course, within the framework of regular and lawfully permitted technical conditions for the opening of teaching institutions. This is therefore one reform law from the entire reform package of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the fact that great responsibility is taken over by the amendments and additions of this law, which in its total has 167 articles, is experiencing exactly the 12th amendment, I think that one was concerned with adapting to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which is a large number of amendments, and not only is it important to adopt these amendments and complements for the sake of the exceptional need to establish a strong synergy of education and the economy, but also because of the results these amendments and additions need to be made, in order to start a curricular reform. In addition, teachers, teachers and directors and this law, and of course collective agreements, expect and improve their rights with full rights, because all those who have ever had contact with this system and teaching practice, we know that to the greatest extent and curriculative reform will now rest on individuals who will assume greater obligations and greater responsibilities. I would not agree with some remarks that it is not good for teachers to work on European projects, I think that this law leaves them with the possibility of a salary allowance if they want to work and perhaps some kind of certificate or some kind of licence could be considered in that system after they have completed such an education for the EU project, which would simply open up the possibility of working on these projects outside the school, and I do not see that teachers who are mostly highly educated should be limited that they cannot work on these projects, because we know that schools and professional staff, and also accounting and secretally, and in that sense, they will be well-involved. Of course, teachers, directors, teachers, teachers are expected to pay according to their responsibilities, not only for the educational process, but also for the very important educational process of young people who are entrusted to them. There is no doubt that this is a law concerning almost all groups of society and that, in fact, changes in society from demographic image to the Republic of Croatia, economic recovery, progress of technology, the EU market, globalisation of other processes, of course, should be understood that the school, which is still, I would say, in Croatia is one of the most stable institutions in which people trust, a living organism that needs to adapt to new challenges. And the practice of many European countries, I would point out this example in Poland, shows that to implement the reform of the education system takes time and patience and continuous dialogue and just as well as examples from Europe show that there is no need to copy, nor to prescribe any reform, but now in Croatia it is time to establish our own form of reform How to move in September with a partial and experimental programme of schools for life, its results should be closely monitored, coordinated and improved in accordance with real indicators, and in the application of the reform in it, I would say to the full profile, probably future adoption and a whole new Law on Education and Education, so that it can respond to the challenges of full curricula reforms other than the message that the HDZ Club will support this law in the first reading, I also instruct all teachers, directors and parents to study the changes in this law, this proposal in the first reading and believe that it will ultimately improve all the needs of all of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85096	Thank you very much. The next club is the SDP's representative on behalf of whom Sabina Vosovac, the respected representative, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club in the first reading will be restrained by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. We believe that there are some small but important solutions for the daily life of the school that are good for example. which is finally regulated by the way in which a student can easily write and enroll from one school to another, so make that transition a much easier way than it's ever been before. It is also positive that it is provided through a network of schools with existing school institutions that define schools’ programs, it is good that for the first time all those schools they conduct or define will be included in the school network and all those schools that implement the program for gifted students will be detected and included in the school network. Similarly, according to some dynamics and life of schools especially at the beginning of the school year when schools are in quite a lot of work have to form different school bodies and bodies that have to adopt certain documents, it is good that this one deadline, is in line with the deadline for the adoption of the annual plan and school curricula programme where the final limit is moved de facto at the beginning of October, it will be significant for schools so that they can bring everything into line with the existing provisions of the law without too much stress and pass all those instances and boards of parents and school boards and get all those consents that these documents need to be obtained before they are sent to the Ministry of Science and Education. Similarly, as regards the adoption of a Regulation on the regulation of extended school stay, unfortunately on how many children will have extended school stay depends primarily on the capacity, the will of local self-government units, means their founders, so that service does not actually meet the needs of children and their parents, it is not the Ministry's fault, but well, where we can meet at least part of the needs, it is good to be unified, that they do not know the rules and that they know that these rules apply equally to all, to ensure nevertheless a certain type of standards. I see you intend to get involved in the deployment of technological surpluses that so far have been done by representatives of the unions and offices of the state administration through your technical surplus management committee. You did not meet their requirements through a public debate which is there, the fat booklet, there is a lot of it, but 80% of the remarks actually refer to more or less than 3 parts of the law, one of these is the deployment of technological surpluses, you did not satisfy the requirement that those declared technological surpluses should be employed in schools where there is a need for full-time workers or part-time workers, but perhaps it will be the next step when you get involved in this work that you will actually make a rule in which way these technological surpluses will be deployed, although there are certain rules. We know there's a lot of trouble in the field. What is well resolved in the bill of law regarding technological surpluses in schools is that through one provision, the new proposed provision of the law prevents the abuse of the same right of severance and, on the other hand, the same person who took the severance to be taken care of as a technological surplus at school, and until today, it has not been known to happen so often that the two rights of use, I will not say at the same time but use both, abuse and it is good that it will end through these amendments of the law because it is not right that one person consumes both rights and someone remains a technological surplus, it was not the intensity of this law. Where I see room for improvement to second reading is definitely about pedagogical measures where you give opportunity to students who have received the most rigorous pedagogical measures in the third degree, the possibility of these pedagogical measures being abolished. What I have already warned on the board may need to consider that if the student’s behaviour is improved, which means that the highest measure has actually been given its effect, I would not want to work against the child’s interests now, but you may consider not removing that measure but putting it down. Why? To avoid being unfavourable to students who already have a second degree, to correct their behavior or to stay on the second degree, and to end someone who has been on the third degree, with someone’s decision to come to zero and this child to be marked at the second or first degree, consider rewarding the improvement of behaviour and good implementation of the measures, but on the other hand, make sure that other students do not give up. Then where I see room for improvement, also in the definitions of a state expert exam where to provide the possibility that if they were justified they were prevented from passing an expert exam in 2 years, they do not remain without a job, as was the case so far, because they do not meet the requirements of their traineeship contract. This should be taken seriously, therefore, where discretion is given, that some decide what is justified, and which is unjustified, and perhaps it should be prescribed which reasons are justified, in which cases, those who have been prevented from taking a professional examination for justified reasons and extend that contract of work and the possibility of passing an expert examination for a period of time. As far as I'm concerned, there's a little bit of the same misunderstanding here, this solution to weekly duties. So you're no longer giving teachers and teachers, who get, at the beginning of the year, a solution to weekly duties, so you're not going to give them solutions anymore, you're going to give them decisions. In that case, according to my interpretation and the interpretation of some other laws, they would not have the right to appeal, or to object to that solution, I do not know how much it is in accordance with some other laws, in respect of the rights of those people. That's what you can fix. Now, the second part, which is why we can't be in favor of this law, is the first thing you're pushing this law into unnecessary, but really unnecessary discussions and conflicts, schools and parents and children, the state and parents, who should actually be partners, associates, and not in this way needlessly sharing and separating them. School cannot be divided into its educational and educational role. Let's get this straight sometime. She also has an educational and educational role at the same time. As I teach English, in school is a German language at school, and I'm through raising children. And through these topics and through my behavior and through my approach to underestimation and through the treatment of these children, I'm instilling in them some values. I'm not instilling in them the light of the world, but we're also discussing some issues, and I'm instilling in them some values. And you can't share me with a professor, I'm a pedagogue, that's gone. It is unnecessary for you to add in Article 1 to the promotion of parenting values, based on the right of parents, to decide independently about child rearing. A parent has the right to raise his children, and that is his constitutional right and no one shall deny it or deny it. Neither does school, and the school on the other hand has an educational role, public to provide children with standard, minimum standard, which will prepare them for life. Public education must also be scientifically justified. We can't lead the story to absurdity, in a way, that tomorrow's parents, now I'm bringing things really to absurdity, what does that mean? I'm not going to let my kids in, I'm going to write what kind of biology he's going to study. Now you're going to say, no, that's not what this is about, I know it's not about, I'm bringing things to absurdity, this isn't the place in this law. We all went to school, we were taught something in those schools, we were at home discussing it with our parents, according to that, building our worldscaping and building ourselves as people, without the school bothering it, without the school taking a parenting role, just working with her parents. And it's not good for the school to go into the house and into what is a parent's role, but it's not good, either to have parents conclude the grades, that parents say that they think that his child deserves 5 or 4 to teach this, that his child should be taught one way or another. It's not right for people, my people, to respect children's rights to and above all, schools are here for children. No teachers, no teachers, no parents, no children. Kids today, people tomorrow. And delete this provision, it is completely unnecessary. If some people think, who forced you to put it into this law, that through this they would deal with health and civic education or some modules, parts, these inter-entities, I must remind them both of you and them, that the Constitutional Court, by its decision of 2013 when we had that problem with health care, I quote. "The right parents are limited to the right of the child itself to have a complete, coherent and free development of the child's personality. Also, parents have no right to keep their children in the dark and prevent them from accessing basic information and content related to the complete and coherent development of their personality. Enabling the participation of parents in the process of forming teaching content is the constitutional obligation of the state of procedural nature." So, right away, don't have to quote you any more judgments from the European Court, laugh you Sokole, I know that you are the same, love what this article of the law is, more than anything, but it's totally like this, but from a TV encounter with Mr. Zekanovic, which you are almost intimate with, I don't mean in that sense, that you don't understand me, wrong. I don't really go into other people's spaces, but you're similar to the worldview and you always stick together and you have the same arguments. I saw that he was very excited about it and happy that it entered the law and then he confirmed to me in fact that he thinks that through it, a particular module will be thrown out of health care and out of civic education. That's what some think they're gonna do. Well, to all those who think it's going to be done, it's not going to go away. This cannot go away, because it is past the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the constitutional decisions made, but also some decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. And I end up, this law is just a confirmation that none of the entire curricular reform, the full curricula reform. Some kind of reformer will be there, some kind of improvisation, but it's not a complete curricula reform, that's not it. I'm sorry you dropped it, why do I say it won't? It won't be because you dropped a key document, it's a framework of national curricula and don't tell me here as an argument what you said on the board that it's because in the framework national curricula as a key document from which everyone else should come, and you don't have it here which means that you gave up both strategy and... that you didn't include it because that framework of national curricula also embodys preschool education, and this is not lex specialis. That's bullshit. Now I'm just going to quote a few quotes of the G00D Initiative that you didn't respond to yesterday, those are the ones that organized the protests that you went to every year for 2.6, where people gathered to disagree because there was nothing of education reform needed for our children, and you didn't go there, and since you didn't go here like this, a couple of messages. You promised transparency of competitions and respect for criteria, today Fuchs runs the ERS, and Buljan-Culej Special Expert Commission. What do you mean, Minister? You say you're responding to all calls, you went to the General Assembly, and you didn't respond to the tribune on curriculative reform, you avoided her. What do you mean, Minister? You promised school to live, and you left out documents for students with difficulties and gifts. What do you mean, Minister? Here's if you won't answer us already through this debate, and it would have been nice since you weren't in that stands they were eager to wait for you or some of your associates. How is it possible for you to protest against something one year, and then for the second year, forget it all together, ignore it and go the other way?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85098	Thank you. I have to tell you fellow voters that it is not appropriate to say that someone is speaking nonsense, not to colleagues, not to ministers. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85099	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Glasovac, violated Article 238 of the provision which says that a firm measure can be given to a representative who, by his conduct, deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. So, my colleague Glasovac was talking about some kind of intimate relationship about people who aren't here, about the nonsense they're talking about, and she was just saying it to cover up her very missing legal argument because I know some people are trying to act like lawyers, but that's not working for them, so please remind her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85100	I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and as far as the statement of stupidity is concerned, I've already said what I think. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Blaženko Divjak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85101	Thank you very much. There's been a lot of debate at this point I'm still going to look back on this last debate because I think it's important that we all read clearly and loudly what it says in the amendments and the amendments to the law together. Among other things, that everyone has the right to education, that children have the right to access information or content based on modern, scientific and educational standards that are important for the full and coherent development of their personality, that such content is transmitted in an objective, critical and pluralistic way and what you mentioned actually states that the task of the public school system is to be neutral, balanced and to enable children to exercise that right. I think it's important to say that it's written in this bill of law. Secondly, a complete curricula reform, is it just what you think is complete, is it true or is it true that if we are putting school curriculas in a way that we take into account not only the content, not only the outcomes, but the frameworks of how gifted students are, how we are dealing with students with difficulties, how they are valued and evaluated, and that's what we take into account, then I think it's important to admit it, and not to talk about that it's not a complete curricular reform because you think so. I personally believe that everything that has been done should be taken into account, that everything that has been done needs to be evaluated, that's another thing and that's what we do, reviews of the domestic, international reviews, sorting it out. But if the reform were only documents, then we would have won long ago because we in Croatia know how to produce documents well. What we're weak in and where we haven't shown ourselves, and now we're changing that thing is implementation. So it provides for schools, provides teachers with education at this time of 5,500 teachers and teachers are in education, providing equipment for the first time in ten years, providing schools, providing new textbooks, providing international expertise. So I don't know what the problem is with full curricula reform? That I wasn't at the Good Initiative yesterday? Well, at the same time, we had the signing of a contract for twenty institutions for a billion kuna in science. So I'm really asking you to read what's written here well and to refer entirely to everything that's written, and not just to the selected parts where we want to talk about something that's here at this point seems important to us, but we need to look at it as a whole. That's where you'd stop as far as this last intervention is concerned. I'd like to look back a little more on previous discussions, if I may, I have time. So it's primarily about paying a salary supplement of 30% for those who work on eu projects. A few principles are important for us to understand, first of all, that this is related to the percentage of time that someone is working on projects, that part being added. Secondly, it applies to all employees, including accountants, secretaries, who work on projects. Third, that there is no additional burden on the state budget, why no additional burden? Because wages for those working on EU projects are provided from EU projects, so what comes from the state budget remains practically to get a new job, so we also encourage new employment, and I think it is important to hear, take into account and act that way. What I may have had to say at first refers to the fact that what is a prerequisite that such an opportunity to put someone to work on a project at school exists, that means that the director is able to provide a replacement. It's important and it also says in these provisions of the law. So that way we should look at it completely to see, I mean, we're good, I hope we're prepared and discussed with the Ministry of Finance. Namely, what do we have at this point? We have either volunteering or the fact that schools in these situations work in some gray areas that are not well regulated. In this way we provide security to schools, provide security to employees and directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85102	Thank you. We've got a whole series of replicas. Let's start from the beginning. He's the first respected representative of the Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85103	Thank you very much. I'd like to supplement Mrs. Secretary. So Protocol No. 1 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. In performing their functions related to education and teaching, countries will respect the right of parents to ensure education and teaching in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs, meaning something that is part of the European Convention on Human Rights. Croatia has ratified this and is already in force in Croatia. So now I don't know this whole story that Mrs. Glasovac is telling, does this mean that Croatia is in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights? So that's the only thing I can figure out, and I don't think that kind of discourse is right. Another thing about a billion kuna contract for scientific infrastructure, I certainly support it, since I have been involved in preparing this project myself and I am glad that the contract is finally signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85104	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85105	It's okay and worse names called me Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85106	I'm sorry, since I knew my father, it's in my head.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85107	Everything's fine. Dear Madam Minister, therefore, in reference to what was said by her colleague, Glasovac, and here is my colleague Sokol. So what is the logic at all if everything is clear and guaranteed by the Constitution that this article of the law must just be listed here? So as my colleague Glasovac said, there is a very clear plan to question through this provision a complete education system, i.e. teaching about what you have now called in your presentation of the achievements of modern science. How when someone comes to you and tells you so you know, it's not in line with my philosophical beliefs that you're telling kids that LGBT people are worth the same thing as straight people. Or that, for example. It's not that people who aren't in a marriage community are in an out-of-marriage, that they shouldn't adopt children? Or vaccinated, for example. You, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85108	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, as I should read the law better. Here's what I'm going to say to you, I'm going to tell you about what your child's attorney wrote about this law when we talk about the principle of promoting educational values and values based on the right of parents to decide on their own. She says, not me: This principle directly enables parents to disagree in different situations with certain content taught at school, and even those who are part of compulsory teaching subjects to call upon this principle by demanding that their educational values and values be respected unconditionally, even when they are at the expense of the child and his rights guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In particular, this means that parents are directly introduced to demand from school the unconditional implementation of parental attitudes and beliefs that parents and parents can be completely different and sometimes harmful to the achievement of the rights and best interests of the child and for the educational and educational process as a whole. It opens the way to possible manipulations of parents related to vaccination, healthy balanced diets, prevention of addiction, Content of civic education, etc., etc. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85110	Thank you. The next replica is a respected colleague of Batinić's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85111	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I'll just read article 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says: parents are obliged to raise, maintain, educate children and have the right and freedom to decide independently about child rearing. So it's a constitutional category. So I'd also like to ask you a purely one appeal to you because I see clearly that in the lack of arguments that even this topic that is primarily not ideological and should not be ideological, that the ideological component, I'm saying exclusively in the lack of arguments is a project contrary. Furthermore, in the clarification of the law, it is very clear that the right of parents to decide independently, as well as to ensure the flow of information or content based on contemporary and scientific expertise, etc. So please give it one more time, obviously either the materials are not read or deliberately bend, so please repeat again what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85112	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85113	Thank you very much. I still have to intervene and say that what my colleague Glasovac read about the comment of the Ombudsman for children is referred to the principles 11, 12 which are not now in this bill, so this is the 9 and 10 that are left, so we're not talking about the principles 11 and 12, they're not here in the proposal. It is also very clear what an educational standard is, how something enters the educational standard and what it must meet. I really ask you to focus on being, let's focus on that education is something that really needs to ensure that children have a flow of information and content based on modern scientific knowledge, that among the topics in question are part of mandatory, or electoral subjects, and as such part of the standard, I do not see what the dispute is at this point, except that something that is now not metric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85114	Thank you. Please, let's not throw it out of the bench. You can't throw it out of the bench, I'm giving you a warning. Keep going, you'll get another one. The next replica is the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85115	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, of course there is no quality education and tomorrow on the labour market of children who will be easily employed if the teacher is not motivated to pass on some new knowledge and skills to them. Up until now, they have mainly done EU projects in schools voluntary and well that they can be rewarded. However, the student is there all around which to revolve. You are merely stating that you will reward teachers and should reward them for work and project management, provide them with money to obtain licences but value it according to how many students participate in the project, that students learn to write the project, carry out the project because they will go to the labour market tomorrow, not the teacher or professor. I think that's where we went a little bit from the core to raise and educate children, to be employable on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85116	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85117	Thank you very much. This is actually an inter-species topic of entrepreneurship in which these content that you are talking about right now means project work, how to solve problems, how to work in economy and society, and this is exactly the content of an inter-entity topic of entrepreneurship that is for students and where to learn for the subject now and for the topic, how to learn exactly how to have international education, international experts working with our mentors. Here's a thank you for the opportunity to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85118	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85119	Dear Minister, you will seem to be opening Pandora's box with this because how do you say otherwise when you introduce separation from education, is that possible? So what are you going to do with the situation where teachers have different beliefs, different values? Will they adapt to this, or will you take away their right to teach or raise according to their beliefs and values? So, once again, I think you're going to open Pandora's box with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85120	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85121	Look, first of all, I think we really need to read fully and take into account everything that's written and of course we can't ignore some constitutional categories that are here and repeated. What you would point out may be here if you did not take into account Article 11, which amends Article 135 where it is said that a student's parent has the right and obligation to be familiar with all the contents covered by the educational plan and the programme and the school curricula published on the web pages but to give consent to the participation of students in all content other than teaching subjects which are part of the educational standard, which means that consent for electoral and compulsory subjects should not be given in this sense and for all other activities in school, and today it is such a practice that parents sign whether they want their child to participate in certain activities and in this way simply recognise it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85122	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Putice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85123	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister, I would just refer to part of your debate on school financing and to the fact that schools sometimes enter the gray area, I have been called by several school principals who warn me of the inability to separate and regulate student and student services. I know that this is mainly the case with the Labour Act, so this time I would like to refer you to perhaps suggestions that, for example, in Dalmatian counties and cities, the possibility of students already signing contracts for student and student services that are very important for the financing of certain schools without being able to attend practice in their vocational schools, is what I forgot to mention, and it is about school financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85124	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the House, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, just to take advantage of the opportunity if I can get an answer to that article of the 42nd amendment I was speaking in the debate, means if it's a threat to the lives and health of children, is it considered here in school building to be built and co-financed by the construction of school-sports halls?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85126	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85127	Thank you. In two cases, it can be done. First of all, it is a point of public-private partnership and secondly, if it is a threat to child safety. So it's based on those two basics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85128	Thank you. We now have the next Club of Representatives and that's that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85129	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Vice President of the Parliament, I'm sorry. [[I'm not the government, fortunately.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Today, we are facing amendments to the Law on Elementary and High Schools which are really necessary for education in a difficult state, I think that in this we are more or less all agreeable, and on the other hand education represents one of the pillars of development in the Republic of Croatia and in general some better future. Unfortunately, we have had mostly negative comments about education in the past because we have seen that some education ministers have managed to take people to the streets, we have seen that there have been scandals like these that have occurred lately, and therefore, on this side, such a step has indeed been not only necessary but also expected. At the end of the day, we expected the new HNS minister to show these amendments to the law that she and her party were both doing something that presented her with great ambitions to the public. Namely, they have just presented education reforms as a key reason why they have disbanded their own party for the third time and entered an unnatural coalition with HDZ even though they have signed that they will not go with them. But here, they justified it with a higher purpose. In particular, the higher goal is Minister Blaženka Divjak, who therefore brings before us amendments to this Act. And I have to say right away in the beginning that we were expecting more courageous measures in the Living Wall, that we were expecting bigger steps, but unfortunately we didn't welcome them. And I would now briefly explain that on behalf of the Representatives' Club in this planned time. The first thing I've asked the minister in the replica, which is why she hasn't fought to increase education in percentages? I'm talking about quality of separation, not quantity. She replied that 600 million was more than before. But that 600 million represents a 2006 debt payment. It's not new funds for education, it's something that was signed 10 years ago at the time of Eve Sanader's government, and it had to be paid now. Therefore, the payment of the old debt cannot be regarded as an investment. And also, I repeat once again, as a percentage, one is 3%, the other is 2.5% and the third is 2%. So for years in the Republic of Croatia, the percentage of education is reduced and is currently below 3%. In EU Member States, it is 5 and 6% and even 8 and 9%. So three times more invested in education than in the Republic of Croatia. And I really don't understand how the Minister of Education doesn't understand that. It is even more devastating that 90% of the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education goes to employees' salaries, then several percent goes to the transport of students and several percent remains for all those areas that are located in the ministry's management. And then we come to the fact that I don't know about all the science in the Republic of Croatia is about 150 million, not 120, I mean, some ridiculous amount. It's just that no country in Europe singles out so little. Let's say the Slovenians invest 7-8 times more, although there are twice as many, and we come up with the situation that children at school are hungry, that the Ministry can't pay for meals, which takes 25 million kuna, that then the negotiations are whether these 25 million kunas will move or not. Furthermore, the minister talks about the funds that will come from the EU even though she knows the funds will not come. Because every year at the end of the year we have budget rebalances, every year. Are we going to have budget rebalancing this year? Of course we will. And last year we had 2 billion kunas. Because she thinks that when the funds are signed, she'll come. No, he's not coming. We pay a huge membership fee in the EU and we do not withdraw that money. So what happens now? The ministry has thought of hiring employees to write European projects. What if the money doesn't come? Who's gonna pay you employees? Did they volunteer, worked for the bad guy. And the same question arises why, when we're already paying such a huge membership fee, it means 3 billion 700 million kunas a year would have to give up their work. So we still have work to do. How much does that work cost? Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of hours we spend writing projects, justifying projects, and giving huge EU money. So, to think that the EU will solve the problems of the Republic of Croatia, including education, is simply completely unrealistic. This is the expectation of some magic wand that will solve Croatian problems and will not. We have to solve education problems by our own means and when they do, then EU funds when they come, if they come, then there may be some kind of upgrade. Furthermore, the Ministry did nothing to change the attitude towards teachers. Teachers today not only don't respect the public, but they're very ugly. It's said that I don't know, the not doing much, three months a year, three hours a day, and they're going home. Is that right? And how does the Ministry try to answer those examples? By insisting on giving teachers new bureaucratic duties, forms, so as to create the impression that something... And you know what a teacher does? Here, I'll say for those who don't know, maybe for that public who is so judgmental. So the teacher has to have classes for 24 hours a week. There's 12 hours of preparation a week, which isn't enough for him, it's not enough. Here, if you think 12 hours a week is enough, try to prepare for 12 hours a week for parliamentary debates and you'll see that it's not enough for you. It has to be a classroom, it has to be a teaching course, it has to be a teaching course, it has to participate in competitions, it has to have extracurricular activities, it has to participate in teaching councils, it has to take part in the work of the teaching councils, the activities under consideration, professional trainings and seminars, it has to organise events, it has to organize classrooms and panorama schools, it has to receive parents, it has to receive students, it has to do choreographies, it has to do appropriate lectures, it has to act as Santa Clauses and it has to participate in the fasquet. It has to mark the day of bread, it has to go to Mass and similar activities, it has to write home books, e-books, e-types, the system keeps falling, the minister knows that because she deals with IT. The programs for these queens are so complicated that 10 teachers can't overcome them, this, as many as there are different gaps, orders, headings to fulfill, and only if you miss one, you can't do your job, you can't conclude, so let's say, testimonies or beliefs. Do teachers have to work in committees, e.g. for graduate, for county competitions, for correctional exams. They have to carry out an inventory of the school, list benches, chairs, chalks, plates, chandeliers, it's all a teacher's job. They must be on duty in the halls during their vacation. They don't have a vacation. They have to be on duty in the kitchen, they have to be on school buses, bus stops. They have to organize materials for school... school newspapers have to work, have to participate in projects of EU municipalities and projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have to go to union meetings, to the school board, to the working council. They have to participate in a school sports club. They have to raise money from children, money is collected by teachers. They have to choose students, they have to choose teaching tools and aids, they have to participate in protection at work, in providing first aid. They must study new laws and regulations, participate in external evaluations and surveys, read new literature, master new methods of work, new techniques, learn foreign languages, organise field classes in excursions. Cooperate with professional school associates, with secretary, with accounting, with janitor, cook, doctor, police, fire department and social workers. They have to collect points for mentorships, they have to write professional papers, they have to comment on a law made by the minister. 1,000 pages of comment came. How many comments were written by parliamentary representatives? Look at the public debate, you know how long it takes for you to be involved in such a public debate, 6-8 hours. To read the law, analyze it, write comments, and then respond to any comments. The teacher of all the work he does, which is extremely hard, demanding, must be concentrated all the time, must be neat, must keep watch over every word, as we can see, can even report him anonymously. If, by any chance, a teacher spoke to children in such a dictionary as is spoken today in the Assembly, the teacher would be fired. He'd get fired, so much for the role of a teacher and a relationship to them. And then what did the teacher get? He's got some salary, which is very, very low again in relation to Europe. Only that teacher who has, say, 20 years of training, who has two children, who, for example, gained mentor status and has a gross salary of 10000 kn, means about 1,300 euros, if you didn't know it, is now adopted in Austria by the Law on Teachership, which the beginner, the teacher, has a salary of 2420 euros, almost double the teacher of Croatia, since 20 years of training. And the teacher who is in the highest working-out, so let's say 30 years of internships in Austria has 4330 euros. And we're saying that teachers have big salaries, that they're earrings, workers, and I don't know how, which is three months. They're taking vacations every year. Except that the teacher has a salary in Austria of between 2500 and 4500 euros, he has the right to a monthly allowance of 680 euros, depending on which case he surrenders and depending on whether he introduces his colleague into the business. The minister knows very well that every intern at school has his mentor and he's been mentoring him for a year, but these mentors don't get any compensation. They don't get paid, they volunteer, they get, on paper, you get, and in practice, they never get. And that's really very sad, and that's what we should talk about today. And I don't like the fact that the debate went completely wrong, and a little bit more, so we're going to start over with Ustashas and Partisans, and I don't know what, instead of agreeing about teachers, continuing, investing, solving problems. Because in Japan, they did research, a scientific study, which showed that every kuna we invest in a teacher comes back 10 times. It's the most profitable investment possible. No other profession, no such feedback, as a teacher's profession. Because the teacher, he created us all. Teacher thing, doctors, lawyers, most workers, politicians. Without teachers, we wouldn't be here today. Try to imagine what it would be like if you hadn't gone to school. How would you like to speak? How would you write? What would you look like? Nothing is said about the professional training of teachers, as much as teachers are allowed, once every two years, to be trained professionally. Can a lifelong education program be achieved in this way? So much for now, I don't have any more time, and then in an individual debate, I'm going to talk about the problem of technological surpluses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85130	Thank you now, on behalf of the motionary, will speak to the Honorable Minister Blaženko Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85131	... as a mathematician because there are so many alternative facts, unverified, incorrect data, that we really have to react. [[Specially enabled.]] So if 617 million is an increase, then that's 617 million increase. If the rebalancing has resulted in 170 million, then it has been obtained in the rebalancing of 170 million. Is that enough? Of course not. But that doesn't diminish the fact that we have increased the budget and that we have received more money that is measured in hundreds of millions. Equally, funds from funds, well, of course, it's good to use funds from funds, if we forget all the other reasons, then for the reasons you listed, which is that we pay the membership fee. And unlike some others, we did use and withdraw and arrange funds from the funds. Let me just say that for the educational reform of 155 million kuna, 155 million kuna are used in this year and next year for our schools, for our teachers, for our teachers, for our school equipment, for additional from the state budget. We're using another 4 million EU technical assistance funds, so expert assistance for experts, we're using, at this point we've made assumptions for a billion kunas for vocational education, we agreed yesterday, as I said billions of kunas for science and not to mention all other projects. So 3 billion kunas per year, 3 billion kunas per year, and that's true. Also, if we're talking about divergence for science, your data is incorrect. You can see the exact information on the Ministry's pages. If we exempt the salaries, if we exempt the salaries and they also grew, but if we exclude the salaries, the budget increased 20%, from the Croatian Foundation for Science, to the introduction of new projects that we are paying from the state budget. And teachers who work to raise quality in schools because they do projects, they do because they want to, because it's their call, because they're proud of it, and we need to ensure that the appropriate compensation and this fee that this 30% in this law is what we can do under this law. There's also a rulebook like I said about progress that we're going to review and introduce into the award category. What are we doing to change the position of teachers? From pay to contracting new rights in a collective contract that has now been concluded, both for primary and secondary schools, for training, for administrative discharge, that's what I was also talking about. So you mentioned a lot of things that teachers like they have to do, but they don't have to do all these things, but they do, and what we have to do is provide conditions for work and real positions, not only materially, but every other position so that they're proud of their profession, their knowledge and what they do. And once again, if teachers were to present such alternative facts as you have now, we would really have a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85132	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told us earlier to read the text. We have read, it says: Promoting educational values and values based on the right of parents to decide independently about child rearing. But did you read what the Ombudsman wrote for you in the 2017 report? It says: We also suggested that the principle of promoting educational values and values be left out based on the right of parents to decide independently about child rearing and to exercise the rights and best interests of the child. What your attorney here is telling you is that such a proposal, in fact, turns children from the subject of education into an educational object. So why aren't you listening to the D.A.? I mean, we're, like, party here in a way detached, but the D.A. isn't, why are you going against the D.A.? And what do you plan to write in your law enforcement manual after all, about this work exactly?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85134	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85135	I think there's two things going on here right now. Report and public hearing. I mean, if that's how we do it, then we have a problem. So your colleague referred to one another, you refer to the other. I think we need to agree to what we're referring to. And as far as the instructions are concerned, there's no need for guidance, it says in the law. So they're principles, and as they're done, they're written further in the articles. It also writes in the same way that curricula is made, as it writes, and it is clear that mandatory objects are mandatory objects, that there is no possibility of a parent deciding on what content is in mandatory subjects, to decide, but that he must be familiar with everyone, it is very clear. As is also clear from the Constitutional Court's conclusion that the Board of Parents must be involved in a public debate, i.e. in the adoption of certain curricula that is respected. And what I would point out is that we applied the same principle to the application for experimental school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85136	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85137	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've talked a lot of things in your response to my exposure, and the only thing I can conclude is that we don't really understand each other. Well, maybe there's a chance that we're still having a little more discussion, given that the debate I've been seeing is going to take as long as I can, but what I'd single out, so you don't really understand that I'm asking you about the percentage of education separation? If you do not understand, I am prepared here to bring the budget and budget projections in 2020 and show you and prove that the funds for education are reduced as a percentage. I'm talking about percentages. It's not the same thing as 10 out of 10 and 10 out of 100 and 10 out of 1000, it's not the same amount. They're different qualitatively. They may be the same quantitatively, but they're qualitatively different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85138	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85139	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's what my colleague said in the debate on behalf of our club that there's some progress. But progress is not a reform. Especially not reform if we take one step forward and two steps back. Because we have this hazy notion of our own educational values and values that are actually required of schools to carry out unconditional parental attitudes and beliefs, and we all know how much they can be, how much they are, and how dangerous they can be for a student, for his mental health, and I'm going to say physical health. So, all the time here, the notion is that we need a teacher in the center, and with this bill of law, we don't do it, but the teacher as a person is actually degraded.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85140	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85141	Well, look, I would once again point out that the law should be looked at not only in changes and additions but in general. So it writes in the goals of education and education to raise and educate students in accordance with the general cultural and civilization values, human rights, children's rights, etc. So you have to read it all the time. It is only when it is seen in full and when it is really taken into account that no law, so it must not be in accordance with the Constitution, and this is certainly a constitutional category that parents, of course, have the right to insight, of course they can raise children in accordance with their own means to promote educational values, but not to interfere in the way of school education in a way that is not established by this Law. And it has not been established in any way that parents should take on a role that is not prescribed for them here, which is the role of a teacher in a school who is trained to work in a way that promotes not only values but also educational content based on these principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85142	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85143	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, the Minister here, by certain colleagues and colleagues through their concepts, their notion of a philosophical debate is being imposed on you, you are being instructed to take on something that doesn't actually stand there. It's about the part that's raised and what's education. You have made it very clear, several times, to what extent the child is raised, and to which he is educated and where he is educated. In fact, there's a thesis that's entirely to blame. I repeat that, if necessary, you assess, articles of the Constitution speak for themselves. The articles of the Constitution speak all and I think that the malicious distortion of facts does not lead anywhere, so I ask you nicely to try to elaborate a broader picture until the next reading, and also this notion of what one colleague said, that children are hungry in schools. It just doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85144	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85145	Just for a while, it means what I have mentioned several times, that without a motivated teacher there is no good education, but there is also no modern education without the student being at the heart of the education process. So we really need to individualise our approach, so we also apply the frameworks that apply to gifted students, students with difficulties, adapt methods and methods of working with students and methods of evaluation. So you really need to look at it as a whole and it's a student that needs to be at the heart of the teaching process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85146	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85147	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Minister. So, I'd like to commend your efforts to increase the level of information in schools. In 1984, that was 34 years ago, the first computers arrived in Slatin. Her name was Apple 2c. At that time there was a standard at that school on one computer with six students. We until a few years ago, I don't know, we had a tendency to bring it to that level. Watch out, after 34 years. In 1988, the first optical cables appeared in the Southturbin in Karlovac. We have no excuse. You as a minister will have full support as a minister. You're asking the Minister of Resort and Finance, asking for money. Information needs to come to schools, computers have to come to schools. It is unacceptable for five or six students to go to one computer today. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85148	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85149	Thank you very much. So, information as a mandatory subject in all primary schools in the 5th and 6th grade since the next school year. And not only that, but all schools will have equipped IT classrooms at that point. Last year, we allocated more than 10 million kunas for equipment for 200 and some schools, all other schools will be equipped this year with one IT classroom, as regards the network and everything you say, it is also important, and it is part of a major project of E-school that implements Carnet in collaboration with agencies, the ministry and our schools that are now training 10%, and at the end of 2019 a major project is expected to cover all 100% of schools and here I agree with you that without quality investment in the development of digital skills we cannot count on our students to be ready for the interest of the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85150	The last replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85151	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, you said you needed to improve the position of teachers and teachers by planning to raise wages. I agree they need to raise their wages. However, I am convinced that teachers and teachers would be more suited to their respect and dignity for their profession. But respect and dignity by parents whose children are learning in a way that we don't give parents the opportunity to complain against a professor when it's objectively okay. Respect for children they teach, not just what the textbook says, not what they learn in life, but cannot agree with the Law that allows the child’s exclusion process to go away from school for 3 months. You know how teachers and teachers experience it? When something that students make against teachers and teachers lasts for three months. We need to restore respect and dignity to teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85152	Thank you, answer, dear Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85153	Thank you very much. I thought I made it clear that as far as the teacher's position is concerned, at least three elements should be considered. The first is certainly this material status, which includes, of course, wages, other conditions of work, which means both equipment and schools and opportunities for professional training and administrative discharge. And the third is, of course, what is reflected in the relationship and what position teachers have in society, and it is related to the previous two, and here I agree that this set of pedagogical measures has a role to play. But we need to see clearly here that we have the right of students, especially students, because it's about minors, that certain pedagogical measures don't go on forever, even though I think these 3 months. I don't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85154	Thank you now we will go to the next Club of Representatives, which is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Madam Minister, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So these changes and additions, as we have heard, one in a long series of amendments and additions to this law on primary and secondary education and education, begin with a whole series of topics, which intervene, i.e. the objectives they have and the changes they bring with them. So it is said that the provisions of the curricula of the course, purpose and objectives, structure are defined more easily to introduce new subjects, to define more clearly possible programmes for the primary school, to introduce a new programme for gifted students, or to facilitate the introduction of programmes for gifted students, to facilitate the writing from one school and enrollment in another school, to extend the deadline, if there are reasonable reasons, when secondary education can be continued after school leave. So longer than it's ever been, and that's two years if there's a reasonable reason for that. More precise inclusion and obligations stemming from inclusion in the election course are defined, the deadlines for the adoption of annual plans and programmes in schools are amended. It is possible for the ministry that so far it has not been the case, the introduction of experimental programmes, the extended stay at primary school is arranged, if I think that topic should be given much more attention, because instead of extended stay, our goal should really be a one-way course. The extended stay isn't just a question for kids to be somewhere, if there's no parents at home. This is a question, in fact, the right to equality in education, the right to equal access to knowledge and equal access to help in writing tasks in additional education. So this has far more far-reaching consequences than the extended stay itself, and I think that should pay particular attention to it and then link it to what is mentioned in the law, in the end, and that is the question of financing the building of schools. Furthermore, as the objective of this law, mentions the possibility of extending the period within which teachers and teachers are obliged to meet certain criteria, such as professional examination, pedagogical training, if they did not meet them within the appropriate period, I consider it to be very good, since it is obviously primarily applied to people who were on parental or maternity leave during that period. As claimed, the appointment of directors is simplified and is also claimed, a quality control of the candidate is introduced. However, 2 things that are explicitly, and in the first instance it doesn't speak explicitly, and which we absolutely need most of all, is the content of what is to be taught. So, we've been a cat for two years now around hot oatmeal, and we've been going around the contents of the curicula all the time. What's he gonna give up? We create conditions, we change, these or those provisions, all of these provisions have or don't make sense, about a personal subject, and that's a curricula. Di is the content, when we face this content, which was reportedly finished two years ago, and then it cooled off, and then it was redefined, defined, strained around these different expert working groups, and we've been biting about these different changes all the time, about the basic subject, and that's the content. And in some of these, and I'm going to put that right behind this in the remarks, in some of these provisions that are introduced by this law, it's going to be a question of how that, what the meaning of all the laws really looks like. The second topic, which I think, is not to be approached systematically enough in this amendment and complements the position and authority of teachers and teachers. That, I remember from my youth, we were amazed to see some countries that were otherwise far richer and more developed than we were, in which the difference between good schools and bad schools was first enormous, in which people came out of high school education, without having the right to read and write, especially writing. In which they acted unseenly toward their teachers and teachers at school, including physical attacks. And we never thought we'd be faced alone in our own country with that situation. We are today faced with a situation where schools exist, where it is really physically dangerous to be a teacher or a teacher. That goes through metal detectors to school. In which parents attack and physically attack teachers and teachers. Without that, and in part, the pay of the topic, therefore, is certainly necessary to strengthen the financial support, i.e. pay for teachers and teachers, but obviously something is wrong, and with the whole model of pedagogical approach, the whole model of sanctioning, discipline, in which way the students participate, in which the parents participate, who have the rights, because it eroded the full authority of teachers and teachers. And the moment that authority is eroded, ha wouldn't say it matters anyway, but it's very little what these people give to the students. Because if the students don't respect, if their parents come to school, swear on them, if teachers and teachers fear their students and their parents, the content they teach them will have very little, not to say, no effect on them. And the part about education and education will be disastrous. The children will teach that violence against people who, in one situation, should have authority in their knowledge, is easily annulled. And that's a catastrophic message, it's a worse message even from all those terrible things, which some suggest they learn in content, that is to enter the curricula. Let me now make a few 3, 4 remarks and concrete remarks to what the law says. So, one refers to what has already been discussed here, but somehow it seems to me that we have missed the topic or that we have not fully understood between the MPs and the minister lady, so that the famous provision in Article 1 of this Law, paragraph 9, is that the obligation to promote educational values and values based on the right of parents to decide independently on child rearing. The only thing I don't understand is what that provision does in this law. What she does in the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. The fact that parents have the right to raise their children in accordance with their views, I think that if legal regulation is required, it should only be regulated legally because there were times and regimes that had ambitions to prevent it. So, to enter the family and speak in the family, which you may or may not speak to your children, or, which values and attitudes you may convey to them. We're not in this situation today. So, parents without further ado in the family are raising their children, as they think sometimes it's bad, sometimes it's good, sometimes it benefits children, sometimes it hurts, as we know, because people are very different, but that right is absolutely guaranteed, inalienable, there is and no one can take away. At the same time, they're kids today's kids spending hours on the Internet. What's up with that? There are the most amazing things there and with all these lockings, unlockings, they're going to file and find ways to access the most different content, does that mean that we should ban the Internet? So it's impossible to realize. It is impossible to realize beyond what is the domain of parents, which is that in their family they pass on to their children, and what else, whether anyone thinks it is good or bad, will convey their views and values. And I don't think that's questionable. And the fact that a parent has the right to decide independently about raising children is what the parent does. He's raising his kids. This does not mean that he bans the Internet, abolished the Internet, makes it impossible for children to deal with the Internet, go online, that does not mean that this parent will decide on the content of the curricula. It's a key thing people do because if we go, the next thing you learn at school is that the country is a flat plate standing on elephants standing on turtles. Thus, what parents have the right to know, of course, what is taught and to have insight, etc. In addition, that paragraph 9 is in direct contradiction with the following paragraph, which is paragraph 10, which speaks of the basis of what is taught in science, on multiculturalism, on non-discrimination, this is all stated in paragraph 10. Now, if you're so optimistic that you think that the values of all parents are multicultural, non-discrimination, scientific knowledge and scientific truth, then you live in a world that I don't know. Unfortunately, it's not like that. I would love that if that were the case. Unfortunately, that's not the case, that's why there's a school. There are parents who will raise their children like that, but there are others. That's why there's a school, so there's a school for you to get some other insight into what they're going to decide, how they're going to decide, what we're going to see, that's their thing. But that possibility of learning something behind, over, above, what I can learn at home, that's people's reason for the existence of a school, that's the definition of progress, because otherwise they'd still be jumping from branch to branch and throwing themselves at cherries. If we don't have the opportunity to go beyond what is the standard of people who were before us, we'll go over and come up with some new knowledge. So there's no dilemma at all that parents in the family are going to raise children like that, in accordance with their values, but there's also no dilemma that school has to give them what it says in paragraph 10, and item 9, I guess you wrote to satisfy some of the other ideas that exist here, but don't do it because it only hurts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85156	Thank you. He will now speak on behalf of the motionary, respected Minister Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85157	Thank you very much. I will again report to you regarding these principles. Of course, these principles are not in contradiction and this is a law on education and education, so the principles also apply to education and education in this sense are written. It is clear that all laws must be in accordance with the Constitution, as well as this. And it is particularly clear that school cannot promote any value or value that is not in accordance with the Constitution. That's gotta be the way it is. On the other hand, it certainly cannot be content in the school the country is a flat plate, and therefore we also have a principle that the contents must be based on modern, scientific and educational standards important for fully coherent development. That's why it's important that we have both principles. It also says about values in the law, so what are the values, how they are promoted. I think that's how we should look at these two principles. They're balanced, and they're not in contradiction. Similarly, the implementation of these principles is further prescribed in the articles and it is clearly stated who determines the contents of the curricula and how parents have insight and where it is now, and, of course, in the future they have the right to exclude children from certain parts that are not mandatory items, from parts that are not confirmed electoral items in their choice from before. This is equally true for all cross-cutting topics which are part of mandatory and electoral subjects and are then part of the standard. I would also look back at where the contents of the curricula are, so the curricula is primarily about educational outcomes and in this sense should be looked at. They are, if we are already talking about curriculative documents, I pointed out earlier that I really believe in the policy of continuity that in the way that what was done was used, but not to remain on it, but to improve. So in this respect, the processing of public debates and international reviews have significantly improved curricula documents, and working with teachers, working with schools, improving and giving us a better chance of having such a way that we don't only have nice curricula documents, but that we're actually building a school of the future. This experimental program that goes from autumn to 72 schools uses principles, uses what is in the documents, but even more uses innovation, the creativity of our teachers, 170 mentors, 30 international experts who work together, not only on the development of documents, but on the development of a program that enters schools and on the basis of monitoring experimental implementation, we will ask new questions, we will see what good practices we will have since the school year 2019/20. frontal in all schools had developed, improved curricula. So now in the classrooms, since autumn in the experimental classrooms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85158	Thank you very much. Here, before you even joined the speakers, he raised the plate, the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic, and he will now be replicating it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, but it is a contradiction, this is what it is and how you will satisfy the values of each single parent in whom she wants to raise her child. Well, the point of school is to be neutral in some way. You can't satisfy the particular values of your parents. You have to go to some general stuff. And besides, you can't operate on this article of the Law, that's what the work is about. Because what you're saying for starters violates the authority of teachers and teachers and that's the most important thing because tomorrow your parents will come to school to talk about every thing they don't like if it doesn't match their values. It's happening right now and it's going to be more. It will divide children not only by whether they go to religious school or not, but by further fragmenting. And second, for last. What you said wasn't a statement from the D.A.'s report, that they weren't, that they were contrary to what my colleague Vosovac said. She wrote in the report only to participate in a public debate, so it's one and the same, it's one and the same, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85160	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85161	One more time. So principle 9 refers to education, 10 refers to education, and operationalization is given in the further development of this Law. It's an operationalization. There are only principles here. And it is very clear how education content is formed, how curricula is brought and how parents have the right to see the curricula. I don't think it's questionable that they have the right to insight and decide what's not part of the standard. As for the values, the values are given in this article. And once again, so I guess it's clear to everyone that teachers are primarily you, and then I believe parents who have to know not only what they're doing at school but what constitutional categories we all have to stick to together because if that's how we suspect teachers in parents, then we're in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85162	The next replica is the respected representative of Kresha Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85163	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, I will speak to you from the mayor's experience now for the ninth year in a city where there are six elementary schools. When you let parents who have become more and more involved in associations, so they are educated so they know how to exert extra pressure, then it does not end well either in the education system or in school, or in the local community at the very least well for the students. There's a limit to everything, really in everything. I can't have a parent, especially in today's day when a lot of them are educated, under quotes from wikipedia or from Internet portals that end with oa, which are suspicious of funding. These parents cannot influence the educational process in any way. I can't be surprised at you as the person I really respect, who you've passed the education system and become someone and something in a more normal education system, that you don't understand exactly that. The teacher should have authority. Can't a teacher have authority if his parents are simply more, just go to any parenting meeting, one democratic way to teach him, that authority collapses to the ground, and he's underpaid, and what's left for him? All he has to do is do his job and go home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85164	Thank you, fellow Whitey. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85165	Thank you. There's a limit in everything, that's right. And here's the day. So the border is really given in another principle, meaning in principle 10 which clearly states that children have the right to access information or content based on modern scientific and educational standards that are important for complete and coherent development, and that the task of the public school system is to be neutral and balanced, and to enable the child to exercise that right. Yeah, there's a limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85166	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85167	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, Minister. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. There's no such thing as compromise. I know, but don't defend yourself from us. We're not attacking you, we're giving you a chance to eventually try to pull yourself out of this situation that they've made you put into normal provisions, say item 10, to put one of these cowardly eggs that says that parents at school will be careful, because at home, it's no questionable, but this is the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. So it's just our observations. Not at home, what they're entitled to and what no one's questioning. And you'd better take this opportunity to pull yourself out of that impossible situation that you've been brought into.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85168	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85169	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, a step is too often a step in breaking and entering. So take this discussion that way. You often say you work for 21st century school. The 21st century works differently. The students function differently, the parents function differently than they did at the time when I went to school. My parents didn't think to do school or get involved in things. Today it's just not like that. So the fact that we live in the 21st century, the fact that, say, in the Netherlands after 18 years, parents no longer have the right to go to parenting because they turned 18. These are facts which they are and this is an opportunity to amend the provision of the article. 1 and put it together in accordance with really delete what it is and take it as an opportunity. It's not an attack on you, but let's make it clear what it's about. About the step too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85170	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85171	Dear Minister, today we have the reality in schools that children, because of the poor organisation of teaching that do not attend religious studies, spend those hours in the halls. In your school future there will be not only children in the halls who do not attend religious studies, but there will also be children on the halls whose parents consider vaccination harmful and children whose parents believe that life begins with conception, not birth. There will also be children on the halls whose parents believe that, for example, transgender persons are not equal to legal to other persons, etc., etc. You in your school of the future, instead of making school a place that will be a dialogue of the worldview, tolerance and communication, you will make a place of division since you were little. Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85172	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85173	Thank you very much. I think it would be important that in the school of the future, if anything, we read in order. ♪ With an understanding ♪ [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85174	.../Intruder Reiner: Fellow Voter so don't throw it away, you've already been warned about it, don't let me give you another warning and take away your word for it, please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85175	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85176	.../Intruder Reiner: You are getting a second warning from your colleague, Glasovac./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85177	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85178	.../Intruder Reiner: I take away your word./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85179	So once again, here in the goals of education and education, the school institutions that everyone has to adhere to, it clearly writes about this topic that has been discussed. It means to raise and educate students in accordance with general and cultural civilization values, human rights, children's rights, train them to live in a multicultural world to respect diversity, so this is important, both tolerances and for active and responsible participation in the democratic development of society, and in this sense this is the answer to this picture from the hallway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85180	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85181	Dear Minister Divjak. It really seems to me that you are defending something that is not, which is not to be defended, and I am really, really surprised because you put it here again, so you are proposing these two bases that are really going to bring such a violation of the whole, so all that you say is going to make the law. What you've put on will really lead to a growing division in society, will lead to division among children, will lead to division among educational professionals. If there's something contrary to modern and scientific achievements, and you say that's the primary goal, if something is the opposite, how are you going to explain it to a child? How will teachers explain that to a child? Where will these children be while these contents are being promoted?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85182	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85183	I think that so far I've really explained this whole thing quite in detail and that, of course, educational content and education is something that needs to be based on scientific knowledge, methodical principles and it writes it. And as for education, look, I'll read you article 64. A constitution that says: Parents are obliged to raise, maintain, educate children and have the right and freedom to decide independently about child rearing. So that's where I don't think there's a dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85184	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mark Welligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85185	Thank you. Here's since we've now brought this debate down to a debate about the system of values, I'll say individual systems of values of course yes. No one has anything against them, however, as we will and that is where I simply don't understand you ministers, how you will bring these individual systems of values into some general system that I think we should, or should teach in our schools students, call them whatever they are. There's something universal, something that I think goes beyond some world-class difference, and it should be a school, and it should be a school, but with this provision that you left in the law, you just don't get to defend it. That's why yours, I won't call it reform, but that step forward as you presented it, but at this first step it actually falls into the water.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85186	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the HNS on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85187	I would like to thank the Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Now, this debate has been going on all day long, and I'm glad we're discussing education, but I'm not glad that we're kind of away from the law itself and we're discussing two articles that are in the law, that is, one article, and two paragraphs of the law. I would, however, look a little more at the law and here and there and touch some of the things that were said in today's debate. We all remember that recently the European Commission has sent a clear message, which is that structural reforms are needed, and it has also stressed that in the education portfolio the shift is visible and that things are changing, which I think is very good. Education has finally started to be discussed, education has started to be reported in the media. I honestly think that maybe it should have started talking about 10, 15 years ago, but well, better ever than never. I can't help but look back at some of the things that have been said here today, and they're actually ringing in my ears all day, which is that it's been a year, or it hasn't been a year, it's been 11 months, and there's absolutely nothing done in that term and there's no visible results. Well, I've got a fellow agent who's been so theatrically successful in apostrophe and emphasis, and I just have to defuse it because it's pretty easy and it's easy to unmanage. I'll just count some of the most basic things that have been done in education reform and moving towards better education for our children, and that's two billion kunas spent in six months invested in employment science and infrastructure and equipment, we have eight thousand new scholarships for students. Isn't that the result of this minister? Okay, maybe there's a better world in which even more students might have scholarships, but eight thousand more scholarships is a really large number. My wish is to have more, but really, eight thousand is an enviable number. The very good news and news that has echoed well among our economies is that Croatia has become a member of the European Space Agency. In the final phase they are negotiating with CERN and in 2019 we are expected to join CERN. I think it's also a very big score. 45,000 microbits entered our schools, microbits that stimulate our children to creativity, digital literacy, encourages them to solve the problem with critical thinking, that's also the result. Mandatory school information in 2018, was that supposed to be a question for 2018? It was supposed to be long, long ago solved but there was no earlier, it will be settled now in 2018 when information will be mandatory. And finally, what I am most proud of and what my entire county ultimately expects most, and that is a billion kuna that now awaits us for the regional competence centre, for the equipment of our high schools, for modernising ways of learning and for the opportunity for children to learn what they will need for life and to learn on those machines and appliances that they will need in their work. I think that's a lot of results, and I just had to deny that there's no record of these past 11 months. For years we have also heard about the school where the windows fall on students' heads and for years we talk about Nikola Andric's elementary school from Vukovar from school year to school year we always watch at the beginning of the school year in what state the school is and where the students attend school. So far, there has been no legal possibility of this problem being resolved from the state level, and the founder of the school I suppose did not have enough resources to solve it. Well, this is exactly the law we are discussing today in Article 42. It is possible to put in the budget expenditures for the construction, construction and reconstruction of the school space and the equipment of school institutions in cases of insufficient safety and the threat of life and the health of school students. It's a huge thing to be solved by this law. What is also very important, and this is that this law introduces a network of school institutions other than regular programs and special programs for children with difficulty in introducing programmes for gifted students. Unfortunately, there is quite often a case in the field that deals more with those students who are problematic, that they are given more attention, and unfortunately the gifted children were quite often taken in many schools for granted and they were not given a chance to develop, because they are now being put into a network of schools, definitely a shift is being made and there is a recognition of generosity and excellence. Another good thing that was solved by this law, and before it was not possible, which is that students who interrupt secondary education can also be enrolled after two years. Thus far, it has been stated in the law that they can only be enrolled within two years of their schooling, and unfortunately you know for yourself that there are quite a number of children who, unfortunately, and because of various serious illnesses, have to stop schooling and will be allowed back to be able to return to their schooling. Many today have also talked about writing projects and co-financing of a 30% supplement on the salaries of those teachers and those school staff who will work on writing projects. I am sorry that some MPs are not familiar with examples of good practice where business executives and entrepreneurship school workers managed to make projects from their schools, so I would dare even say real small spaceships. Why not reward such teachers, such directors who thus raise the quality of learning and life of their students, and ultimately make it easier for their founders to show good partnership to them. I would now refer to a few of the proposals that we noticed in the law that perhaps we should consider and see more about the work, and that is the first thing in article 105 of the 15th is the amendment that applies to a list of qualifications that can also be determined by the curricula. It is necessary to define which curricula is involved in order to make the provision more clear. In addition, Article 105 defines who can carry out the teaching and teacher’s tasks, it might be good to consider that, as a condition for the performance of the law, a minimum number of ECTS points to perform a particular teaching course as a minimum of professional competences that must be fulfilled for employment. And another proposal to consider in Article 107, paragraph 9, introduces a regulation that introduces a school institution, which prescribes the way and procedure of employment in school institutions. Although the provision indicates that it applies to all employment, it would be good to mention this Regulation. 127. A law governing the employment of a director so as not to doubt whether this Regulation should also regulate the employment of a director. The fact is, we're changing education. The fact is, we should've gone a long, long time ago. But it's our turn, and we're the ones who have to take that step. Step to step, there's a long way to go, but we're headed for it. The experimental implementation of the curricular reform which, among other things, allows for this law in some way this year, this fall moves into schools and I am very pleased. I am sure it will be easy not to be easy, that there will be many challenges ahead of us that we will have to address in walking and in front of the Ministry that will find many challenges that will have to be met. What is also mentioned several times in the debate today, and I think it's very important to underline it even more, and that's the attitude towards teachers. So the relationship and the student, and the parent to the teachers, in many cases, unfortunately, a lot of too many cases are very bad, not to mention perhaps worse words. I believe that in a new way of learning, a new approach to learning, that this will eventually change and that the atmosphere itself in schools will be much better because of new ways of learning, new ways of acquiring virtues and gaining quality. We've already made a lot of improvements to me with the Law on Professional Education that we adopted this year in this House. The improvements continue with this Law, and I believe that there are many more new laws waiting for us to go in the direction of better education and in the end-end I think that all of us must be a school for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85188	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85189	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with their associates. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club, a few words about the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools. In fact, we're all, we can agree that education is a question of the future. The public interest in Croatia is great about what will happen with educational reform and what the future of young generations and all of us in the Republic of Croatia is like. We always like to compare ourselves with EU members, so here is the best review of the situation that the European Commission submits each year on the education and training of students in individual EU member states. And where are we? According to this latest report, last year, the Republic of Croatia recorded a lack of basic skills, and we are below the EU average. What's causing it? It says in that report that the causes are poor quality of teaching and curricula. You promised to change, Minister. You promised reforms, you promised one accelerated process to improve the quality of education in the Republic of Croatia. For who? Because of the students. Well said, they must be at the centre of attention. A quality educational system without a quality network, without a quality curricula does not go without one who needs to implement it, which is a teacher who must be motivated, who must be interested in the transfer of knowledge and skills to those students, but who must have authority and who we must protect to preserve that authority. Today's best-quality personnel, especially from those staff who finish information, physics, chemistry and mathematics, are reluctant to stay in the education system rather than go to the economy or, unfortunately, go outside the Republic of Croatia. And here we see some future of our own and reaching through the education system, through students who will gain knowledge and skills, the achievement of those developed countries, the developed economy and the attraction of such investments in the Republic of Croatia. It doesn't go without money, no investment. And that is why I point out once again, and it has already been mentioned that it is unacceptable for us in the Republic of Croatia to single out less than 3% in our budget for education and science. We know it's between 5% and 8% in the EU and we can't catch up with this developed Europe without raising those standards, and that doesn't go without money. I said already that the engine of quality education reform must be a teacher, a teacher, a teacher and should be told another truth, that the last 10-15 years have been the burden of the crisis in the Republic of Croatia. Their salaries didn't grow, even more so their salaries were cut and they kept quiet. Now's the chance. We have a surplus in the state budget, and it's an opportunity to really decide on greater education separations, to create a quality network and primary and secondary schools. How's the net? Why don't we still have a network of schools? Such networks will meet the needs of both parents and students and existing structures of teachers, but what is much more important, to be in cooperation with the economy, with craftsmen and entrepreneurs. This law says the minister will bring the curricula. This can be good if this curricula is really negotiated with the economy of the local region or units of local self-government and economy, which also respects the existing structure of the employees of these schools. The fact is that often we, we should tell the truth, protect the existing quality structure of teachers, teachers we have. We regret that anyone is left without a job and no one should be left without a job but through this law we should solve this technological surplus in a way that, either by switching to other educational institutions or to an existing institution and through requalification, we should also give opportunity to those professors, teachers and others in those schools that will be declared a technological surplus. These days, the minister boasted and signed a collective agreement with the trade unions until 2020, where they were allowed to increase their personal incomes to work under difficult circumstances, in schools of some, and we have 142 such schools. I want to repeat once again that there is a need to define more clearly what schools these are, because we have a situation where one elementary school works with difficult conditions and therefore teachers will get higher salaries, and there is no secondary school in the same city. I don't think there's anything wrong with that, and it needs to be changed. What's especially the problem is that we have 68 closed district schools today. Why are they closed? It is not only the role and guilt of the Ministry of Education, but also the overall situation in the economy and our demographic picture, but surely we need to find a way for these schools to be children again and to continue, if not already, another problem here I want to point out, that there are interested units of local self-government for these closed entities and that... and to us incomprehensible procedures make it difficult, that these objects are put into operation if they are no longer in the use of education, school etc. that the school board, the municipal council, the county assembly and then the ministry, was waiting too long, and we could have kindergartens or other facilities in those facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here is the appeal to speed up these procedures, that these non-educational objects are given to managing units of local self-government that have shown interest in them. I also want here a more prominent network of schools, just the important structure of enrollment. The ministry's consultation with schools on registration quotas ended on 17 May. We still have this problem that I have already said that this is a stressful period for 47,000 students who are first in high school, unfortunately 1100 students less, unfortunately 17 departments less, but surely should allow these children to understand through quality education the importance of education, to understand what interests and needs they have at their local level and at regional level, and then to make it easier for them and their parents to decide which schools to enroll. Because the fact that about 15, 16% of students are enrolled in secondary vocational schools, and we want a lot more and we need to safely bring those occupations on the labour market closer to children. We also have an example in the town of Orahovica, which, in cooperation with the economy and schools operating in their area, agreed to open up some new titles, new knowledge, new professions for which they will be educated and for which they will have a job on their environment as soon as they finish school tomorrow. Here are the bright examples that others need to use, and in this way we think about the network of schools, as well as the registration quotas that must be agreed between schools, parents, students and economies, and should not run away from making arrangements with the economy, and especially when we know that the same entrepreneur needs to work on and practice tomorrow and acquire knowledge and skills because the fact is that with this kind of education, we will not be able to equip quality cabinets, equipment, machines where knowledge and skills have been acquired, so we need this collaboration with entrepreneurs. I am pleased that a part of the teacher's salary problem, the professor, will also be dealt with through EU writing projects and that they will be able to be rewarded for implementing EU projects in their schools of pay up to 30% and it is good that this goes from EU money because we see that there is no money in the state budget to increase the professor's salaries and then we go this way. But I also said that in the replica, the student must again be at the heart of everything, meaning not to write a project so that only a professor or teacher would get a higher salary, but that through this project, this particular student would get the impression that it was an EU project, how to write it, how to implement it, so that he would be more competitive on the labour market tomorrow with these skills. So once again, there's no quality education without a motivated professor, teacher, teacher, without a man who has authority. Of course, parents and children need to build their future careers and professional and personal, but that student is capable enough to decide in which direction he wants to develop. It is important to teach him how to read, read the booklet, but it is even more important that when he learns to read tomorrow, he can use the literature. To motivate him to do experiments, to do math tasks, but surely to be a man who will be critical of these actions he does tomorrow, about these experiments that he will know and apply, and who will gain those skills to stay here in Croatia, not to think about a map for a European destination. I am glad that this law will also allow the financing of the building of a school from the state budget because simply units of local and regional self-government for this do not have enough money, and unfortunately we have not negotiated that we can build facilities from the EU, and surely in the next calculation perspective we must find ways and models to finance both schools and cabinets, and sports halls because there is no development of sports without that school sport, there is no professional sport tomorrow, and that is our wish in the Republic. I'm glad that will finally solve this problem with a primary school in Vukovar. I am also asking the question here, when it will start, and it has been promised, with the construction and addition of Milan Amrush Elementary School in Slavonski Brod for children with special needs because it is certain that we have already had discussions that this must be speeded up that these children must have quality conditions for schooling because they and their parents all want it together. Here again with these remarks, we will be restrained in this first reading as we see which direction this law is further developed, and I believe that we will contribute to the second reading with quality amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85190	Thank you very much. We will now move to an individual debate in which the first person to speak will be Honored Representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85191	Thank you, Your Honor. The problem of school work can be analysed at several levels, the basic obstacle in the work of teachers, the fight with the system. Instead of supporting the teacher’s work and serving him at all levels, the teacher has to fight the same system regularly as he worked professionally, professionally, and educationally in the class. I'm going to give some concrete examples now, and then I'm going to go something even wider. For example, if the student is due to a large number of absences that are not justified because students and parents use all the benefits of the systems that allow them to justify everything they want and when they want and when that same student is referred to a class or exam in question, all system deficiencies are visible. Almost regularly, the laws are written for high school and the legislator does not foresee cases that occur in vocational schools at all. These schools are attended by students of lower success in primary schools, and social and family situations are very complex. Children are from homes, families under the supervision of social services, destroyed or dysfunctional families, abused children. When the classroom reaches pedagogical measures excluded from school, class exams are organized and problems are now beginning and the law is clearly indeterminate. Famocular Article 77. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools referred to in paragraph 2 shall determine if the student does not, for the sake of sickness or other justifiable reason, access to a correctional or a class examination within the prescribed time limits, have the responsibility to enable him to pass the examinations after the termination of the reasons for which he has not taken the examination. This law does not provide for other justified reasons, how long the three-member committee is waiting for a student who has not joined the exam, what kind of excuse the classroom may accept a parent or a doctor, in which time the parent of a student who has not joined the exam must bring an apology, whether the failure to take the exam is insufficient and when, when, how many repeated exams the school has to organise to the student. All of these problems are the result of legal uncertainty, so the legislator would have to revise decisions and include all the problems that teachers face in practice. In paragraph 3 of the same article, the reasons and method of passing the class and the examinations in question shall be determined by the status of the school. The problem is that the school statutes are aligned with city provisions that do not again benefit from fair and professional, educational and educational professions. The school's statutes are rarely updated or consistent with the marked dynamics of growing and more frequent problems in everyday school work. All of this can be reduced to these general problems of the system. In the hierarchy of the system of education and education, everyone has their backs, which means that all instances above the teacher who is in direct contact with the students and parents are afraid of the above. That's why there's practice, don't wave that above me and I keep my position. Unfortunately, the result of such practice is the impediment of all stakeholders of the education system and the loss of confidence in the system as such. It is not a low wage problem, it is a non-executive system and a legislator that protects only students and parents who are being overly influenced, resulting in the general collapse of the educational, educational and moral values of society. That's why they don't do the best in the field today because they see that the fight against the system is lost in advance. People will not work in the education system because they will not expose themselves to injustice and wear out in long-term conflicts. The few who have accepted the burden and the same struggles are stegmatized in the collective as idealists, rebels for no reason, are exposed to unfair checks, controls and a wrong step awaits. In doing so, no one thinks how much it hurts the student who is taught to accomplish all that he wants because of the indeterminate law that I repeat overpowers and allows the student on behalf of his rights and alleged protections. The legislator and the system must be more precise, they must assume all possible cases from practice and then a precise and clearly regulated law. There must be direct cooperation between the legislator and the teacher working in the education system at all levels because only one who works in practice can help the legislator write a fair and effective law. Laws cannot be written without the experience of those who work in the education system for many years. The problem with the legislator in the education system is that he does not listen to his teacher who works directly with students and their parents, listens to someone who has never worked in the system and does not know what is best with the system of students and parents. The system supports mistrust with a teacher who is totally inadmissible. If a parent has entrusted his child to school and teachers, he is expected to trust the same school and teachers. They must work professionally and responsibly in the education and educational benefits of each child. The second argument relates to the implementation of the Regulation on criteria for the pronunciation of pedagogical measures. In fact, this same regulation has so complicated the implementation of measures that the teacher gives up the realization of them because they are unclear and still excessively advantageous to the student and the parent. If I go back to the beginning of this analysis, only two problems in the work of teachers at school will immediately be seen again and again the problem of the system that does not help all perpetrators, teachers, but exposes them to mockery, unprofessional procedures, improvisations, pressures with all the higher instances. We want to have a 21st century school, we want to have children who will learn and be the future of this Croatia. Here we should work to separate those poor children, irresponsible, undisciplined students, so that children who are eager to know will be the future of this society. But it's not possible in the system and with laws where one bad student has more rights than two, than a few good ones. I also have concrete examples from practice. He says he has parents who come to school and say, "I can't do anything with them anymore." Are we going to build our future with liberal laws? This is not a democracy in society, this is anarchy. Whether we are a country of respect, respect, or a country of distorted democracy in which, in order to protect the rights of those who manipulate them, the entire system of values will be compromised. What kind of society are we building? I'm always to separate the corn from the wheat because if we don't separate it otherwise everything will be a weed. Many times we blindly follow the recommendations and directives of the EU. It's not getting better out there, it's getting better with us. The EU is no better bureaucrats than our educated, young, ambitious people, teachers. It's not always greener out there than with us. There is no quality education without satisfied teachers and teachers. But it is not the satisfaction of teachers and teachers by having a salary greater than 1000 kuna, even though it is an important pleasure. It would be a pleasure to give them back their dignity and respect for educating our children. This respect must come from us Parliamentarians and respected ministers, from you in a way that is worthy of respect. We will restore that dignity when parents respect them, but above all, children whom they sacrifice themselves many times, give their best to teach them what they write in textbooks, but to teach them what they tell them about life. But then these same teachers and teachers must be protected from irresponsible, undisciplined students and from pre-ambitious and multiple evil parents. There are a number of problems in educational and educational institutions, but the fact is that most in good cooperation with the system and the legislator can be resolved in favour of a better, fairer education system, which is our goal and purpose, our desire and our moral obligation. Let us insist on building a fairer and fairer system of education and education. Let's help the teacher and the teacher, listen to him and trust his work. This will give us a 21st century school, so we will build a better and more perspective for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85192	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85193	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Prelec, I don't know which side you're sitting on in this assembly because what you're saying belongs to a rhetoric of someone who doesn't represent some left-wing ideas. Well, it's not a school thing to separate schools from bad students or troublemakers. Well, that's what school is about. Schools must help these people or children stay and eventually develop into full - time members of society. I absolutely don't accept this discussion of yours, and I think it's entirely guilty, and I hope your source wasn't your school system because the role of school is that these young people who may have gone astray now, to take them on the right track, not to remove them from the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85194	The answer of the respected representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85195	Dear fellow Mrsic, it doesn't matter if it's from left-wing or right-wing circles, I'm saying what I think and what I hear. What I hear from people who work in the system, from teachers and teachers, I'm about to start defending students in a way that protects the rights and dignity of teachers, and what happens today in schools, I have to admit from my experience and as a parent, but when I listen to teachers and teachers, it's anarchy. That doesn't make any sense anymore. You went to school like most of us might in that previous system when teachers and teachers were respected. Teachers and teachers also respected students. It's gone today. And this system, the law protects the most children. We're talking about the rights of children, but we're not talking about the rights of children who want to learn to remove those undisciplined and those children who simply make a mess. Here, that's what I'm for. For the system of values and for the respect of every teacher and every teacher.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85196	Dear fellow Mrsic, it doesn't matter if it's from left-wing or right-wing circles, I'm saying what I think and what I hear. What I hear from people who work in the system, from teachers and teachers, I'm about to start defending students in a way that protects the rights and dignity of teachers, and what happens today in schools, I have to admit from my experience and as a parent, but when I listen to teachers and teachers, it's anarchy. That doesn't make any sense anymore. You went to school like most of us might in that previous system when teachers and teachers were respected. Teachers and teachers also respected students. It's gone today. And this system, the law protects the most children. We're talking about the rights of children, but we're not talking about the rights of children who want to learn to remove those undisciplined and those children who simply make a mess. Here, that's what I'm for. For the system of values and for the respect of every teacher and every teacher.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Prelec, you said in your discussion that they no longer work best at school. I wouldn't agree with that, I mean, actually, if they still work best at school they're actually teachers, those who work in primary and secondary schools the best part of that system. If they weren't motivated, they weren't. They're not motivated for reasons because they have small salaries, they're not motivated for reasons because society no longer appreciates that interest, they're not motivated by the mobbing director, they're not motivated, I'm going to tell you one plastic example, let's say, you can finish PMF, so math and physics, you can become a professor of mathematics and physics or just one or only the other, lecture it in primary school so that your colleague or colleague who ended up at the Pedagogical Academy as some kind of... The same salary as you who studied it for four years at a special college. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a whole series of illogicalities in rewarding teachers or teachers who work in elementary and high school, this is just one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85198	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85199	I apologize if I said it perhaps in such a way that you understood me that they were no longer doing the best, clearly that I didn't mean in a literal sense, but I thought it was demotive for teachers and teachers who struggled with the system. In that sense I said, I still think teachers and teachers are one appreciated profession both by the profession itself and by most parents, I say those parents who respect such a profession and respect those who learn from textbooks and their children's lives, but here's what I wanted to do is that it's just not an attractive profession anymore, that's how it's become, and it should be an attractive profession. I don't know how many times you've heard in schools before that when they asked what the kids wanted to be, they said they wanted to be teachers, doctors, lawyers. Today, more and more kids say they'd like to be football players, models or something. Let's get that system back on track, let's respect that profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85200	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85201	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's colleague Prelec, you put your focus on teachers in your debate. In principle, everyone here did it today, and I'm going to say that what you mentioned, even if I might say something different, that practice is of course different, actually the theory is different from practice. I'll just say that the teachers are not listening, it was the teachers who in some way created that curricula reform, that gave up on him, that's evident, and instead of getting a new paradigm of education that, I think, we need in Croatia, that we actually got a system that will educate individuals who will be responsible tomorrow, professionally lead this country, but also know how to think critically, out of standing molds, because only such people push you society forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85202	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of the respected representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I'm glad you're here and yes, unlike some other ministers when they have very important laws not in the House, so I hope that from this discussion you might change some things in the next version of the law. What I would like to stress in my discussion is that the laws will not lead to the improvement of the status of teachers and teachers, the law itself will not bring this. What will make their status better is their position in society and their evaluation in society. At the time I went to the OS status teacher was quite different and clear that then their position in society was different and that the relationship of both students and parents to them was different, but things can't and shouldn't go back, because we can't go back to the 20th century. We can only talk about the 21st century where we are and change schools in such a way as to make her a teacher, to be an educational institution that will prepare you to be a successful one of society when you go to life outside of school. Of course, the building will not lead to the improvement of everything, but only then will it serve to open up, to open schools, to have everyone here happy, but what the school changes, changes the attitude to education and the attitude to school. I, from my own example, see what direction that goes. At the time when I was in their classes we didn't learn so many things and we didn't do some of the things that are inappropriate for them, they can't understand it, we didn't push them, and we didn't dictate it to them to learn it, and that's what unfortunately is missed, and it's always missing that curricula, that we finally change that part, this law won't change it by itself, but it had to create the preconditions that these things change in Croatia. Our students learn a lot too many things they don't need in life. And this was a chance to change those things. They also don’t learn real life, learn things that they may never need in life, and we can boast that our students have very broad knowledge, very applicable knowledge, but it will not help them in their lives, and then the problem of relations with teachers and teachers, the relationship with directors and other school workers. Because if school is not the one that gives you the knowledge of life, then you also treat it in a way that is not “important to you. ” And I wouldn't agree that school has to be the one that's gonna make you learn everything and that you know everything and that you lay everything down, you have things that you may not be interested in in in your life, you're interested in somewhere else. That's why I'm sorry the minister didn't accept the initiative to succeed, so the success of enrollment in high school doesn't count on general success. I think looking at what it looks like, for example, it's now written in the paper about super-records, those who have 5.0 averages from fifth to eighth grade, so it doesn't make sense to have just 5. what would be interesting to see these super-species enroll on, which colleges are finishing, what their success is further in life. What you should do and what I think is much more appropriate, to value success according to certain subjects that direct you to one day I don't know, to study medicine, to study electrical engineering, natural science, social science, and it's not just our invention. You have in the countries, for example in Germany where you are already selected from the 4th grade, their 4th grade, selecting you according to your abilities and directing you according to certain professions. And that's what we have to change. We continue to slave for that old classic school that teaches you everything then one day you will choose something that may be of value to you or not. That's why I'm sorry that in this law, these things haven't changed. As far as teachers and teachers themselves are concerned, what is the basic problem is the reputation of society and the possibility of progress and it is not only wages, so it is not only this material status but it is also the social status that we all together in the Parliament and politicians, but the whole society has to sort of evaluate differently. Because being a teacher isn't an occupation, it's an invitation and whoever decides for it has really decided on a very difficult job to teach young generations, it's not easy. And clearly there are good and bad, but there should be a system in that that those who are good value them, reward them and that they can progress. The early bird in the education system is not good, and it chokes quality, and unfortunately, here, too, that part has not been solved. For the fourth time that you've put off the principal's license, I think a director like this in hospitals that doctors are directors are also teachers or teachers and directors, and not everyone can be, should have certain abilities for that. Therefore, I believe that this licensing to the director should have been left. And when we talk about choosing a director, then there's a big part of politics. Politics is asking you, politics is replacing you, and there's also a problem with the headmaster's reputation because if he's asked by politics, it's a question of how much respect he has among his employees, but more importantly, how much respect he has among his parents. And then clearly if there is no respect among them, then there is no respect among the children. So I think it should have gone into certain steps. In some countries the principal is elected by all school students, which may be a democratic step. He is as always in democracy when the people decide is a little problematic, but then the directors would behave differently, not to court politics to choose them as director. What's wrong with this law, too, or it hasn't been well valued is what kind of school we want, what kind of school we want in the future, what we want to learn, what kind of school we want for the 21st century, I didn't read this law. We stayed trapped in that old system, we don't have the courage to step up and make a school that will value abilities, personalities and opportunities, and unfortunately this law has not achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85204	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrssic, you said a few things, I probably won't make it all, but I'll try at least part of it. First of all, you said you didn't need to learn everything and that school was out of date in that sense. That's true, I agree. However, the fact that in today’s society a media image was also created that there is no need to learn the facts, to learn nothing, just to play and develop certain skills, etc. I think that thinking when it goes to extremes is also quite dangerous. For example, when you enrolled in medicine, you had to study anatomy, you had to learn the same thing, so I think you should be careful not to go to another extreme in some things that have already been overcome in the West. Another thing about the law, the legal texts can't change the whole system and that's the purpose. The fundamental purpose of this law is to create a legal basis for the curricula in question to enter the system, and that we will all these things that you have mentioned by law that is impossible, it is solved by the creation of new strategic documents, teaching programs, sublegal acts that are a whole series, the whole system, and it is not the law that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85206	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85207	So you mix pears and apples while you're in medicine and then you learn for your profession then clearly you need to know up in detail, but you're not learning quantum physics in medicine, are you? And it is the school that prepares you to focus on a certain profession in your life. If you learn everything and everyone at school then you can't develop your preferences and excellence and school can't recognize you going in a certain direction other than someone else who sits with you in a bench. And clearly, as far as the law itself is concerned, he can't prescribe it, I didn't even discuss that in law we should prescribe everything that should be done, but the law should open the foundations and put a framework in which that school should be developed for the 21st century, but this law has not done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85208	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85209	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'll be on my way from the end of your presentation. As far as the Director's election is concerned, you said they're basically losing credibility because they're behind the policy rule. When we look at the way the principal is elected, I would disagree with you because, basically, on the school boards that decide most of the classes are representatives of the Teacher's Council and the Parent's Council in relation to those members who are appointed or proposed by the founder, and let's say then someone from politics, so that in that part I cannot agree with you. And as for the position of teachers and teachers in society, I don't think they've had much pay in the past, and they've had much better status, and I think there's a lot going on in society than we've broken down the framework of values and all values and so on and so on and that today a few kids in the hallway and greeting teachers or teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85210	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85211	Thank you very much. When we talk about the selection of directors and the influence of politics, please refer to your county, in your county each principal of primary and secondary school has a HDZ card and has the mayor's blessing. And that's it. It's all like that. Dispute me not to, but every director in your county is a member of the HDZ neatly. As far as respect for teachers and teachers are concerned, it starts with parents treating them, then children will be treated. In my day, it was a long time ago, when the principal invited you to come to him for something, and everyone's pants were shaking, and his legs were going to the principal. Today it is no longer, but it is not necessary to return to that system, to work a different model of respect, not respect for fear, but respect for the value and respect of someone who teaches you for life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85212	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, at first, I would refer to just one thing that remained hanging in the air, as my colleague Mrsic said. So I didn't say that you should study everything at school and agree that programs should be modernised, throw out some unnecessary things, maybe add, put more emphasis on some things that are more important today than they were before, that part is not questionable. What I'm saying is that it doesn't mean that you won't have to learn the facts and that story that's very media-enabled that children will just play at school without having to do something and it's not good and I think it creates a wrong picture, or it creates an unreal picture that doesn't have a foothold in reality, but good. That's one thing. As for the debate on values, the real parents, etc., so I can't believe what we heard on the SDP's side, here I can't believe it. So we've heard that I'm defending myself indefensibly with this law, and that's an irrefutable article 64. The constitution, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, means it's indefensible that, I think, colleague Alfirev said, to defend herself by this law. I think we've already told you 100 times where these provisions come from, clearly and why they exist. So the provision of the right of parents to decide independently on child rearing and education is here to prevent the state from taking on one role that it shouldn't, to take on one role of indoctrination, where children will be taken from parents, where their brains will be washed up in some state institutions, that's what was typical of totalitarian regimes, communism and Nazism just did it. So they took away their children and then they actually pushed state ideology one way or another into their minds and that's what's not good. On the contrary, when it is said that this provision on the right of parents to decide independently that it will lead to learning I don't know, that the country is flat, etc. I'd say the exact opposite. I don't think this particular defense provision that children at school will be able to impose any particular claims that have nothing to do with the truth. For example, just such provisions are the dam that some Stazic will not be able to come once and say that it is good to deal with his political opponents in certain ways, right. I just think that this provision is a defense, that this particular provision protects pluralism and that that's what we need to stand up for in society. After all, we have embraced liberal democracy and it is precisely the course of liberalism that parents can participate, decide to raise and educate children. Of course within the frameworks and to the limit of their well-being and that part is not questionable and that provision exists in the law, so one does not exclude the other. The right of parents to decide on their own, of course within what is foreseen, based on some scientific truths and knowledge. So I don't think there's any doubt here, and I think the SDP needlessly ideologied this whole debate. The next topic I would like to talk about are teachers, so I certainly support this method of stimulating the 30% European Funds, that's good. But I think we should think wider. Teachers should be stimulated, further efforts should be made in children's education, in their additional preparation for competitions, some additional programmes, etc. and I think that there is space, not perhaps from the European Funds, but from the state budget to create one system of rewarding them, not necessarily in this way, but through the complete reform of the teacher payment system where a lot more, as I say, individualises the salary that a single teacher gets because not all of them would be in one category, depending on the job, etc., but where one could really reward more precisely those teachers who work quality. And that's something that, of course, requires a reform of the full legislation regarding wages in public services, but I think we should certainly keep that in mind. What I would most like to do, which is why this law is actually here before us, which is to create a legal basis for introducing a curricular approach into our education system. In that sense, I don't think we can talk about this law without touching the very experimental introduction of curricula into our schools. Mostly the first thing I would point out is a strategy of education, science and technology. So as we know, the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology is the roof document of our education system, and it provides for the introduction of experimental programs only in the nine-year elementary school, so it is measure 2.4.11. of the Strategy. Since we're introducing an experiment here in eight-year-old schools, I think we should definitely work on getting these documents in line, so that the strategy and the law are in line so that we don't have that kind of discretion. I would also ask the minister if she could briefly explain how she sees the role of the expert task force now in this system? So how is the introduction of the experiment now at the 9th month, but also what is being prepared, I believe, in a year later, and this is the frontal introduction of the curricula into a complete educational system, so where do you actually see the role of the very expert working group, given that the ministry has now taken the initiative to introduce an experimental programme into our schools since the 9th month? And the next thing I'd touch about the experimental program, it's reviews. So since we know that all the curricula are sent to reviews, practically all of them are already reviewed, reviews have been published which is commendable, but it would be good for the public to get a little more insight into the way and criteria that the selected reviewers are, I think that this is a plenary debate in the Assembly for, to explain who the reviewers were, not by name, but which categories of people, in which they were chosen, in which way they sent these reviews, etc. What I would particularly like to point out about the reviews is what the most calls were about and what was most talked about in public, which is the issue of the review for the subject of history. So we know that a lot of digs break down around history. We see that some, especially on this side of the assembly, still love to deal with history and that's a fact, a topic that causes a lot of controversy. In that sense, one question that I received is why, after five mandatory issues from the Homeland War, which are for primary and secondary schools, which were in the curicula last year, are now reduced to only three mandatory topics for high school, while there are no primary school curricula. So if you can just say if it's true and in what way he plans to give a consistent role of the Homeland War in our education system. I think it is particularly important because as a way for our future generation to move away from these '45 stories, who solved whom and how, and really, to deal with what is the foundation of the Croatian state, which is the Homeland War. So I'd like you to just say a few words about it. I'd also like to ask you what stage the textbooks are in. We know it's here, it's practically the end of the school year. So, the new school year is coming up. The fact is that it was very little, that they were very short deadlines for adopting and bringing new textbooks, so if you can just tell us a little bit more about what stage it is. If you already said in the opening debate, I apologize, I was on the board, so I couldn't make it. Anyway, so these are some things that I find particularly important, but what I would also point out is how you plan to coordinate, since we're going to have different programs in some schools that are in the experimental part and these other schools, how do you think that's going to affect the state's graduation? How do you think that if different students from different schools go through different programs, how this will affect the success of the state's graduation and how their results will actually be able to compare. Here are some questions and suggestions, so I'd just like to ask you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85214	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Falcone, you were talking about art. 1st or more about the personal values of parents who can be entered into the education system. I was in Canada recently. Although Canada is not a country that we can compare with Croatia. It's a rich country, it's a country of self-esteem, it's a country of strong economy, among other things it's a multi-ethnic, multi-confessional, all sorts of things. Now imagine that in that country, so in Canada parents can impose their personal system of values on the Canadian education system. Imagine, unfortunately, there is no colleague, Željko Glasnović. He was a citizen of Canada, he lived there. If he had had children by chance, and by any chance he could impose his system of values on the Canadian school system, what would that country look like in 10 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85216	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Matjana. Answer me, fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Mateo, you obviously didn't get the point of the whole debate. So we're not talking about imposing something on someone's parents, just the opposite. We're talking about the right of parents to prevent some kind of ideologies and some kind of political agenda of certain social groups from imposing something on them. So whoever is fighting for the right of parents is fighting for liberal democracy and for this very reason are the fundamental documents for the protection of human rights, and yet no one from the SDP has referred to that claim, are the ones who protect it. So, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Human Rights. So if those who wrote those conventions were some kind of Catholic, I don't know what, who want to impose some solutions. Well, I mean, we don't have to invent hot water, there's really no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85218	Thank you for your response, colleague Falcon. Next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85219	Dear fellow Sokol, it is because of you and the people who are trying to impose some of their attitudes that we have these discussions that we have. Clearly, parents have the right to influence their children and it is not taken away from them, but it is also the right of society and school to what is an unmistakable fact and the scientific fact that it is something taught in schools. Because if someone wants to teach their children that the country is straight and when you come to the end of that plane, that you suddenly go back, that's something that someone can do in their four walls, but it's not the school's attitude. Therefore, imposing, you have turned the saw upside down because your very discussion is about imposing certain attitudes that are the attitudes of a small group, not what society wants and what society thinks is what should be taught at school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85220	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. Answer me, fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85221	Thank you. My friend Mrsic, if anyone drinks backwards, it's you. I don't know where you've decided in my speech that I'm imposing something on someone. I don't know what those are attitudes I impose. Because I wasn't talking about any ideological attitudes specifically so that you would say that I impose something. So we've got as much as our fellow Stazic, hold the thief. But good. Anyway, what I was about to say is, you're talking about the rights of society. First, I think that the foundation of modern, liberal democracy is to protect an individual from society, not that society will be threatened by the right parents to influence their children's education and education. I mean, he's the one who needs to be protected from society, not the other way around. Because he's leading us to totalitarianism. Another thing, as far as the right of society to protect itself, so you also have a minister told you, a provision in that same article of the Law. Children have the right to access information or content based on modern scientific standards... development of personality, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's all in there already. So please, don't deceive the public and just selectively present a part of the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85222	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85223	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I agree with you that your opposition colleagues today have actually tried to politicise this provision. So parents don't impose anything on the school system, they don't write the curricula. So it's just that parents have the right to decide on their child's education and whether or not any of what is taught at school and what is offered through a particular programme, is that contrary to what their parent wants his child to learn, so we have to give the parent the right to decide. And to whom more than a parent is in the interest of good and best education for his child. As for quality and quantity, I think we're inclined to go from one extreme to another. Of course, it's not good to just look at the quantity and have a system like today to teach us unnecessary data and then to lose quality in the mass of quantity. We need to find a balance between one and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85224	Thank you, dear colleague Jelkovac. Answer me, fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85225	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Jelkovac, I agree with you. So you on the one hand here have a fetish on the state, so on the one hand the state is infallible, and on the other hand, a parent is the biggest danger to his child, I think that's how it turns out. If it's about parents who are dangerous to talk about in the past, there are other ways that the state can handle it. It is also not all the things that are handed over at school that are not necessarily scientifically fixed and proven and undisputed. There's a lot that belongs to someone's belief, someone's interpretation, etc. Well, of course, we should give parents the right to influence child education and education, not that the state knows better than parents, which is good for their child. I'm saying, it reminds me too much of some totalitarian regimes, some totalitarian way of thinking that I really hoped we'd come out of them, but here's the debate in the morning we see that some in the SDP haven't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85226	I thank my esteemed colleague Falcone for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85227	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol. I looked up when you started to mention liberal democracy. I often feel like there's someone in this assembly who speaks Spanish, someone who speaks Hungarian, and there's no way they understand each other if someone keeps speaking Spanish and someone who speaks Hungarian. When we talk about liberal democracy, it would never be such a provision as in subparagraphs 8, 9 and 10 of Article 1 which is added, and I'm interested in an excuse why, suddenly, we are introducing it into legislation? So far, so far, why do we need it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85228	Thank you, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash. Answer me, fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85229	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash, for bringing this up. I usually appreciate you as an advocate, so I'd be happy to try and explain. The point of liberal democracy is to protect an individual from the power of the state and the concept of human rights and in a modern sense and a modern constitution are created to protect an individual from overcoming the state and restricting their rights, so that's the concept of liberal democracy and that's why we have it. It means the rights of an individual in the first place. As for what you said that such provisions would not be in liberal democracies, so the European Convention on Human Rights has ratified me think 47 countries including France, Germany, Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands of all liberal countries. And I don't really see it, since you have in Protocol No. 1 an equivalent provision in Protocol No. 1 of the Convention that you think these countries are not liberal democracies. In my opinion, the Dutch Liberal Democracy, it may not be for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85230	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85231	... A Parliament, a respected minister who doesn't have, a colleague and a colleague. Here, in an individual debate, I would like to ask some more questions regarding this law and, in general, in the field of education. I'm surprised the minister says that they've greatly increased the funds, that some billions have arrived, that everything is developing in the best order, if that's the case, why don't you pay teachers back the 2013 Jubilee Awards? Here are some minimum funds, so give back what you owe, it really doesn't make sense that everyone got that only those teachers didn't get those rights. On the other hand, if you already have money, get rid of school meals for hungry children. You are currently slightly covering with EU funds, but the problem has not been solved, I will tell you exactly what it is. In fact, the Ministry of Education pays meals exclusively for those schools that have organized school meals or who have a cookbook. You have 2055 schools in Croatia, and only 1293 schools have an organized diet, which means that about 750 schools are missing. And there are hungry children in those schools too. Also, put an end to the provision that hungry children must prove to be poor. So that means that someone could get a paid school meal at all, he has to prove that he's poor, he has to wear tax papers, from the bank, birth certificate, I don't know what not everything, and normally that's still expensive, one more thing I'd dare say humiliation, which is why many people, parents, give up their demands. We also have a big problem taking care of technological surpluses. In the first version of the law, as far as I could see, something was trying, and now it has given up. So this is how it should be, when a teacher becomes a technological excess, for example. The class is abolished in some school, the class is no longer, he should be admitted to the first next job available without competition. But what do you have in practice? In practice you have directors hiring completely new people, I dare say to my people until these teachers who have lost part of the Captain or the entire captainship as a technological surplus can no longer get a job. And then we have a situation where people who have 15, 20 or 25 years of internships no longer have full hours, no full pay, no pensions tomorrow, at least not full pension. So in Croatia you have one phenomenon, and this is that year by year the number of students decreases, and at the same time from year to year the number of teachers is growing, while the number of students is growing here, so you have two curves that are completely in progress and logically ask the question how is this possible? Well, that's possible precisely because in Croatia a very large number of teachers do not have a full hour, does not have a full hour. I don't know, on a full clock of 24 hours a week, you have 4.5 employees, one works 6 hours, the other works 8 hours, one works 4 hours. And now you tell me how it's possible for these people to make a pension? They can't make a pension, they can't. Because simply to earn a pension especially under this new law provided for by Minister Pavić to work 41 and a half years of retirement, how can a teacher collect 41 and a half years? When he can't get a full watch. So let's assume that the teacher who is the most capable, who has the ideal conditions for studying, to finish college at 24, 25, and that he could now do 41 and a half years of internships, he has to get a full-time job the same day after graduation, and he just doesn't have it in practice. You first have this ridiculous internship where there's no retirement payment at all, and then you have to work in a half hour and one that even gets a full hour again after a while goes on a half hour. And it's really not fair, it's not fair that teachers who worked at school for 40 or more years, they end up with 25 years of internships or 20s, and that's why when he retires he's a social case, so teachers are social cases like pensioners, which is very bad. Why have you removed from the proposal of this law the provision that the director is obliged to receive the person who is technologically excess? He's got to take it, he can't take it across the line. If it's such a law, then let it be spent, not a dead letter on paper. I'd also like to define once how many students come to one principal, how many students come to one secretary, how many employees come to one accountant. So we have a clear definition in schools, I don't know what a pedagogogog is for 400 students, a psychologist is for the same amount, a maid has to clean up so many squares, one, 700, I don't know what the norm is, but we don't have as much as one principal has under his jurisdiction students, then you have a school that has no idea, 1000 students, and you have a school that has 100 students, and one and the other principal have the same pay, and they don't have the same job and they don't have the same job. Just like an accountant who accounts for 20 employees and has much less work than the one who's counting for 120 why is that not defined as well? Why doesn't the question of the school network be solved? You're just talking about it, it's a famous HDZ, HNS fiction, we're working on it, we're gonna do it in due course. We still have an Austrian network of schools in Croatia. Some schools that used to have 300, 400 students, today have 15, 20. And then kids have to go to combined classes, I don't know the first and second together or the second and fourth, anyway, we even have cases that combined classes are like first, second and third grade. Do children in these combined departments have the same working conditions as children who go to separate departments? Are there school halls in these district schools that have long lost meaning, some of them? They don't exist. Are there libraries? They're gone. Are there any school kitchens? Now we've heard from this statistic that there is no, they have to be paid, I don't know, travel expenses for professional associates, directors, creditors, language teachers, and that same field school that doesn't have enough students from central school is 3 kilometers away. It is closer to reaching the school in Zagreb than from the district school to the central school in some municipality. There could be huge savings, and the quality of teaching would rise. These are all questions that your amendments to the law have not answered. I'm going to say it again, these amendments to the law don't solve the problem, they aim to put on a beautiful curtain to do something, to implement reforms, but according to everything we've seen here, there's no such thing in practice. In order to address the problem of education, to address demographic issues and address the issue of youth unemployment, much more concrete, more determined and comprehensive measures are needed than those currently on the agenda. As a result, the Living Wall in first reading will not support changes to the Law on primary and secondary education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85232	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85233	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a respected colleague of Bunjac, I'm just reading comments in a Facebook group called the School Chamber where teachers write and currently about this debate, there's almost no positive comment in these amendments and additions to the law because it's been created through the media that teachers are very well, so they're getting an increase of 6%, although over 10 years they've had 25% off, now they're going to have a 30% higher salary due to withdrawal from the EU funds, so I'd like to find us after a year of this law and by the exact numbers, here I'd really like that figure to be big, but we're going to do an analysis of how much of the teachers' changes and additions of this law actually increased pay. Only then will we see the true extent of the impact of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85234	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. Answer, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85235	Thank you very much. A colleague of Sladolev's, well, it's the old tactics of the ruling majority to lower wages but they say we're getting better and growth. So when we look at the real cost of life, when we look at inflation, when we look at that practically teachers' salaries haven't increased since 2008, and moreover, the rights have been reduced, here are the jubilee awards not paid and they're in a collective contract, etc., then we realize that the problem is big and we have the same bigger cases that both part of the teachers leave their jobs and country and somehow send a very bad picture to those to whom they should be a role model. It's just that I've been writing to teachers all the time, and I haven't received any positive comments so far, so maybe by the end of the debate, they'll show up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85236	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85237	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bunjac, I'm surprised you didn't support this law because here in this law there's the part about parents having the right to choose what Mr. Sokol was saying, and how do you comment on your initiative right to choose from vaccination and what you are now going on that we have the first case of mesas in Dubrovnik, that we also have a case of mesas in a young boy in Maribor? So, what we have been warning all along is that it is necessary to speak very carefully about having the right to choose whether to vaccinate or not, this is now an example where it is very clear that all those who are not vaccinated have a great risk of measles disease and measles are a deadly disease. So here's what would be convenient for you to say something about it, are you saying people don't get inoculated?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85238	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Answer, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85239	Thank you. Mrsic, if I told you that you mixed pears and apples, that probably wouldn't impress you, so I'll tell you a little bit. You are responsible for the SDP, yes, because you destroyed the Immunological Institute, you robbed it, your ministers, Varga, who was still Rukavina, remember. The immune institute had the best measles vaccine in the world. Are you saying I destroyed it? I was pulling money from that firm or your members and members of the HDZ and other satellites? When you destroyed the Immunological Institute, now you're asking me why there is no vaccine of good, quality? It could be restored, and who will restore it, Mr. Bandic, to whom they have now given themselves to, do you think he will restore it? Did you listen to the report on the Immunological Institute written by the Living Wall? If not, you have it online, print it and read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85240	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85241	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, when we get into trouble, then we try to solve the problem. Over the past 25 years we've known in vocational school practically not, they were, but not much attention has been paid to what is being given today. But an organization in schools, what's going on, here I am looking west, of course I'm going there, watching kids there that parents don't have to work with them at all this afternoon and you said that... teachers or teachers and social workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can't it be organised at school for people like that who don't have enough hours to organize extra classes, to have children go on and on and on at school, that parents who work don't have a problem with their children? But we keep getting into trouble, and then we want to solve it. It's not a solution when it comes. We should have predicted 20 years ago what might have happened, just some certain people were paid for it, and we haven't actually done anything like we've done before. And I'm asking you, can't these same teachers get organized in schools and extra classes to give to certain kids so they have a full hour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85242	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Answer, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85243	Representative Misic, so here's the work organisation, I mentioned now, there was no minister, why not solve the problem of school meals? I may also ask why the problem of personal assistants is not solved. So they can't solve such small problems and then how would they solve the problem of technological surpluses? So if they really respected that Technological Excess Act, then they would lose their favorite toy and that's setting up public competitions. Why don't we settle the issue of public competitions? We all know that only HDZ, HNS personnel, not even a janitor or housekeeper can be employed in schools without a party card. Here are the most banal problems that should be solved and this organization and everything else we're not going to come up with just to have a ministry like this for the next 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85244	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85245	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Divjak with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to be much longer because what I'd like to talk about is a very broad debate so then I can't say very much about it, and let me say something very smart, and then I'll just point out just some of the problems that we have in school and that came up somewhere 20 years ago maybe. The first thing that we did wrong, in my opinion, is that we made it possible for more textbooks from mathematics, from Croatian, from German, from that, from that, and all because of the competition, because publishers could make money. So, at the expense of education, we made it possible for someone to make money. There is no reason at all that in general, natural and social sciences and subjects we have different programs in the Republic of Croatia. There is no one for me, a well-founded reason, and consumer society and the market for me is not a good reason. And I think that this necessity that some have explained by the fact that we have now entered market capitalism, so that's why we have to do it doesn't exist. I don't know how in other countries, but there's something I've heard that's not supposed to happen in Sweden, but there's a program in Sweden, maybe I'm wrong. On the other hand, for private schools, I accept that private schools can have some of their own programs, let them have, that's their thing. Of course they have to be consistent with the general program, but they can have some of their textbooks, let them have, everything's fine. I don't know how much this has cost education in the last 20 years, but it must be hundreds of millions of kunas that have been spent because of the competition needlessly and completely in vain. What's going on? Here's an example. The textbooks can be used from last year in the following year. But let a teacher, a teacher, decide that she will not use the textbooks used in the previous period but will take some other textbooks and then children cannot inherit the textbooks of their former, their little predecessors, and then parents have to buy expensive books. That's not good. Then, inconsistencies in the programs themselves. A neighbor told me that his little girl who goes to the first grade of elementary school learns simultaneously large printed letters while on the other hand on the math class gets tasks with large and small printed letters. The students have not yet learned large and small printed letters, but they have a textbook with large and small printed letters that they should learn from mathematics. So there's one discrepancy, that's just one example, and I believe that this example is repeating itself. To end the problem that arises in high schools, in vocational schools, I think it is necessary to introduce one custom or way of education one week of theory, one week of practice. So, in vocational schools you should definitely go into life, let's say, so that when high school kids finish their professions, you know that they already have a good insight into what awaits them in real life. I think the advanced countries of Eu are just how they organize their education. And what else was I gonna say? Yeah. What they need to encourage among children is to think for themselves. Now, as far as it is present in our system, I don't know, I'm not inside, but thinking with my own head is extremely important for future life and for allowing young people to make decisions that they've thought well about, which they've thought about with their own head and that they can have as little impact on their opinion as possible and that their opinion is primarily based on analysis, on observing the world around them, on removing some old patterns, on new ways, so on leaving everything that hasn't been good in the past and on some new life based on new discoveries, new knowledge and new technologies. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85246	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Next debate, esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85247	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. It's about the 2008 Basic Act, which has been in effect for 10 years, and I would somehow try to systematicize what changes and additions are and what we had through the debate. When you enter the process of amending and supplementing any law, then you must set a certain goal. What is the meaning of these changes and additions, what we want to do and the goal can be next. It could be some step we've seen our laws go out of date, not operational enough, and it might be that what we've seen in practice is not good, that we need to change, that we have a limit in the law. And now, through the debate that is being held today, it is all the time being about the provision of an article. 1st and around the role of parents in relation to school and I won't say another word about it because I think it's said enough, that the clear views, that they were also clear appeals to the minister, according to the entire ministry. Think about it, see what it is and I even said in one replica, you know or what, the path to hell is paved with good intentions. Let's see what we all want together and where we don't differ. We want better education for our children, we want to have quality teachers, we want our children to have one-way classes if possible. My younger child was the whole of his elementary school in one-way class, I can say as a parent that it is perfection, under quotes, but indeed not such a hard word, but something that is good and for parents who can then quality their own, a relationship with their child achieves. We want to actually work the school, I realized that this amendment and the addition of the law we're working for the 21st century school, that's what the minister announced. We can agree or disagree, but I always give an opportunity to any minister, regardless of which, I am currently an opposition, but I am giving an opportunity to explain to and explain, give and opportunity and everyone should have a chance. What really nobody can convince me, the needs of this supplement you've made in art. 1, so you'll get our debate and I think it'll be good to once again with your professional team it's this kind of appeal, it's a little bit of a review and see if it's necessary because once you open Pandora's box or once the ghost comes out of the bottle, no matter what comparison I can make, Pandora's box you know what's left at the end of Pandora's box when it all comes out, and we also know that when the ghost comes out of the bottle, he never comes back in again. So we're going to open up something that we have a chance to see now that the dispute in this assembly, that the opposition in the public and on this side is once again an appeal, consider, see, don't look at which side of the assembly she spoke in what language and what she had to say. I'd like to, and I don't think the two topics are open during the debate. So I might take this opportunity for one topic, and that's the provision of article 34 where you've changed article 113, which is, says: In case the school's worker is suspected of being psychophysicalally disturbed, what does the principal do? The principal must go before the school board, after the school board makes a decision then goes to the institution where someone establishes it. If that is the case, if there are doubts, I am sure that the law should be the possibility that such a person should not participate in the course and be excluded from teaching at some point until this procedure is passed. So if the director had doubts about the psychophysical health of someone who works with children, then I think fundamentally he should be in a certain way excluded from teaching or something until the school board brings in and until all procedures are carried out. So this is one question that I think would be very good to regulate it and regulate it by law for a simple reason. You yourself know how our procedures go, you know all that can be turned into, and you know for yourself what harm it can be for students and for the process if we have such an employee, whether it's temporary or permanent in that situation. The same way when it comes to school principals, it is now related to school principals defined which conditions must satisfy, the way I think it is well, that it is defined and that school directors have the opportunity to return to the appropriate workplace because our interest is certain security. What characterizes Croatia and what characterizes all these actions is actually this one uncertainty, that you are entering a business and that you have no certainty of what will be in 4.5 years, so absolutely me in this sense, and you see that I am trying really to discuss some things in this law in the way it is. And then you have that whole provision, it's your former Article 142, which is your current article 42, where you introduced this law into the subject of a public private partnership. Now, I can't touch it for the simple reason that we've had opportunities really and the media you can't not see when you open that it was a public private partnership problem, the way it invests in schools, and every time it has something to do with construction, reconstruction, construction, believe me, it's that siren call, it's stronger than me. I always read those articles first because I can't resist reading and not refering to them, so here's the sub-paragraph 4 where you're talking, so you have a warrant to ban the work by the competent inspection services and then you have sub-assembly 2 where you hire a judicial expert, or a civil engineering expert hired by your ministry. It seems to me that you'd be better here, faster, more expertly introduced, if you had a look at the building inspector who's an employee of the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, why? For a very simple reason. The court witch costs money. Someone will challenge the findings of a court expert, you will spend time, and in the Law on Municipal Construction Inspectorate, a building inspector can establish the safety of a building for use by going out on the ground. If you as a private person who has a house or apartment, have some papers and doubts or works with your neighbors so you suspect that your condition is compromised, you can call a building inspector who says you can't use damage recovery. If you can do this for private property, then it seems to me that it's incomparably better when it comes to property that's state property for a simple reason, that way you've avoided doubts about which court expert, you've avoided the competition, you've avoided everything else and you've put the state out and going. We have this one case of school in Babina Greda if I'm not mistaken, where the works started, where one investor started the works, where then the built-up grounds for the hall, there it turned into a pool, dangerous, so it's something that's been going on for years, and I think it's really supposed to be used by a building inspector who comes out and sees something. So I've tried to tell you in this law some two things that I think would be good. One is about teachers, the other is about to be more operational, I know why you introduced it, you've introduced for the simple reason to move a dispute that's connected to certain units of local self-government, or the role of the state and everything else, but it's absolutely something that I think is good at law and that you're here with elements, something that can be strengthened. And regarding the provision of Article 1 through all these discussions, I am absolutely certain of one thing, I see no reason for it to be in this law. You'll open Pandora's box you won't be able to close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85248	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Next debate, respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85249	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Well, here, today we have actually a significant part of the debate devoted some of the issues that have been raised and caused a heated debate during the e-consultation, you will admit it yourself because there is really one, with fellow Glasovac there is actually a huge book that actually in one small part refers to the bill itself, and far, far greater part of the relationship with all those observations made by different experts and that we here during today's debate quite, rather tried to bring you closer and to point out the really need to respect the observations and attempts to see and find in your portfolio how to actually consider all these remarks, once again to look at the whole debate and to do everything that actually does not come to an even bigger division in this already divided society. What's this about? I will highlight here two key problems that are highlighted in the e-consultation itself and in most debates by colleagues in the assembly. First of all, I want to talk here about an article on a bill that regulates the work of teachers who participate in European projects. It was as far as I was aware here, 154 remarks and proposals of which nothing was respected, and even in today's debate, a number of comments were made, which actually says that the article is still full of indetermination and doubtful provisions, and that they would then possibly cause a mess in the system itself. So I really think it's very important to appreciate and consider all this that's been said today. Of course, I also welcome every award of teachers and teachers, and of course it is important to reward those who by their knowledge, by their enthusiasm, enable in fact to implement projects and we know that projects at this present stage of our development are extremely important because they focus on improving the material state of schools and others, therefore, allow for the implementation of everything that perhaps in regular or regular funding we cannot achieve. However, if there is an increase in wages and a reduction in the captainship, there could be difficulties in organising the teaching process because it will really require replacements for the part that teachers working on the project will be released for that part. Secondly, the railway problem that has been highlighted during today's debate may already be here for you and you do not show so much interest or you are so convinced that you are right, so you may not want to hear any more but I want to mention it again, so this provision really goes in the direction and it is not good, it goes in the direction of separation from the educational work of the process itself. I say that once again, it's not good because the sharing of education from the educational component of teaching is not in line with the modern concept of teaching. And the purpose of our Croatian schooling should indeed be inclusiveness and meeting diversity and I fear that the consequences of these provisions will have further new divisions in society and all based on the beliefs, values of parents. This fear and remark does not exclude parents' right to raise according to parental beliefs and values but my fear stems from the fact that such a legal determination raises the question of how to meet the needs of so many different values and parenting approaches, for example. in all these inter-species topics. Likewise, if we accept the right of parents as superior in certain content, what about teachers of different values and educational approaches? And so I'm going to repeat that question asked by a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, I hope she doesn't mind if I steal this question from her, I think there are two key questions here. Why is it being introduced now, and how will you accomplish it? In the end, I see that there is, so we have polarized on these provisions, and in the end I want to point out another problem that actually our society has not solved, and I'm afraid that maybe it's still going to be in some way and further difficult, I'm afraid, or I'm asking the question, whether we have enough power, enough competence, enough willpower to go in the direction that we have, though, but children and parents with developmental difficulties are still coming along. So inclusive education and education is the right of students, but in most schools it is presented as a problem, not as a right and it is not good. That's what you as a ministry have to make even stronger, even stronger. We know even more resources to use in this direction, we know that there is both a lack of spatial capacity and a lack of expert personnel, but I would say that in some cases there is a lack of real will to organise, for example. individualised classes or teaching adapted to the student. So in this sense, your role is extremely important because what kind of message you send to your parents depends on the fate of some children. This may be an extreme example, but let's not let that happen, for example. Some parents who do not support it, I say, do not support inclusive education or education to try to impose this belief in a way that will prohibit their child from socializing with a child with developmental difficulties. And that's one example of belief and value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85250	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. We have one replica, dear colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85251	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. I would like to say that a colleague rightly notes that law enforcement will be a problem related to Article 99, which allows teachers to have an increased salary of 30% in the direction of the organisation of work and in the direction of those persons who will assume their captains. So we send this message that those who currently have jobs can choose which work they will do in school, means whether they will teach or engage in project activities while others who are currently unemployed or who work at higher schools on smaller classes will walk from school to school and be at 10, 20, 30%. What message do we send to young people waiting for their first job?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85252	I thank my esteemed colleague, Chikotic. Thank you very much. Next debate, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85253	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates. Although this law has caused a number of polemics, the dissonant tones have even returned in some way, but it has already been visible since the morning itself and a certain ideological note, I will primarily speak of it as quality changes, and remains in the main goal of making the curricula reform that follows us, which is already being started, which is ongoing to create formal assumptions that it can go on unhindered. Of course, in the basic debate, it is difficult to abstain and not comment on not only what is stated and mentioned in the law itself, but also a little wider than that, and all in order to make these amendments and amendments to the law, we expect very quickly in this assembly a whole law that I believe will hopefully not change, unless it is technical, but it will need to be done after the pilot project, and especially with the introduction of full curucular reform in our schools. Well, here's a quick look at some of the most basic features for me. It is mentioned and a legal basis is created for the introduction of extended stay in primary school. Unfortunately today we are witnessing that extended stay is not available to everyone in the Republic, their children. I think that's a big problem, especially for us at the HNS who advocate civil society, who advocates a state of equal opportunities, equal conditions, and therefore more than we have a foothold in the Constitution itself, which is that primary education is mandatory. So I believe, and I believe that in this you will be more than resilient to try or try, and with our support certainly to find opportunities and models and technical assumptions that in the nearest time in order to make this extended stay a standard, and not as unfortunately as just now introduced into the legislative framework. There were a lot of speeches that teachers do, etc. We know very well that the 40 hour working week as well as all, not only public officials but also in all companies, allows for participation, additional stimulation, which we certainly consider necessary and stimulating, then prescribing certain qualifications, the process of appointing the school director, which has caused certain recommendations. Of course, you're as legal as we are in HNS and I believe everyone should be here and when there was a debate on the law that is practically the territory of Croatian defenders, I think it's more or less clear. But here's but precisely for reasons and perhaps ideological plantings or not understandings, which I can very hard to find, there will be some clarifications and we also on behalf of the club have made certain remarks that I believe will clarify and clarify. It also opens up the possibility that again, from the very practice of more quality and urgent intervention, faster intervention in case of inability to use adequate spaces or bans to work within them. And I believe that this quality proposal by my colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, that you will support if it is in accordance with principles because it is certainly more basic and personal experience for the building inspector to come out, has all the formal assumptions that he can ban work, but you will still have to hire a construction expert to assess your investment, etc., but it is already further at school. Furthermore, there is now a premise for returning to those counties, founders, units of local self-government in Varazdin and the Koprivnica-Kristevina County, building schools according to a model of public private partnership that has not been regulated and, of course, caused certain dilemmas in previous governments, by accepting such a proposal of these articles, will practically be able to move on, will work in accordance with the law, pay off their share in this. Whether schools will be able to be built in the future according to the JPY model, whether they might open up the possibility of changing operational programmes through European money, I don't know. There are certainly some things that are not in the Parliament, or in the Government. But certainly, government policy is a general policy, an overall government policy regarding education, education and education, not through this law, what kind of attitude towards education is in the future. That should be the interest of all of us. The debate, as I said, triggered some divisions. Personally, in a very understandable language it says, the Constitution is quoted, but I have an impression, and unfortunately it has started since the morning itself with the opening of ideological topics and whether it is, hopefully, not anyone measles contagious, obviously not because we in the CNS accept differences, we respect others, but we also want to be respected. What would be as a goal, as I personally see future education, is that high school education is mandatory. I think that's one standard that the Republic of Croatia should be looking for as soon as possible. Although statistics show that we are at the top of the EU at the end of high school or we are somewhere very close. But I think that should be the goal the government should draw. As I was saying, an equal chance for all citizens. There certainly, you heard in the debate, I see, but there is no, since these are amendments and complements, it is difficult, it is impossible to intervene because it was neither in the public debate nor in the very provisions of articles that talk about founders, about opportunities, about taking over schools, from units of local self-government, but certainly I would like to base these discussions which are here, and also one proposal because we all know what kind of procedure is, if the county is the founder, if the local self-government unit shows a desire to take over some elementary school that the county assembly is the one that has to give consent. But what if the county doesn't? And then he would suggest that the ministry be a second-degree body in the work. We know there's also political backgrounds, there's material backgrounds. Decentralised funds flow into the county, the county spends the decentralised funds on some key. Is this key always correct, is it always, or is it, as necessary, how the founder assesses? So that's the point of the problem. The particular elementary school in Ivanac, the largest in the county, does not have one shift class because we could not enter the model of public private partnership. I'd take over that school, the city, but the founder won't give it to me because he's losing a lot of funding, and of those funds that are meant for that elementary school. Ludbreg went with that request, not all those funds go to that OS. That's the point of the problem. So please think about this proposal and if you can't make a full solution, then be the second-degree body in this work, because I guarantee 10 classrooms, some 6 to 7 million kunas, the town of Ivanec is ready to finance the loan in the next 3 years, per county never. I hope so, but there will be a regular payment. How will the court dispute end I don't know, it's a matter of state, of justice primarily, but if we wait for the founder ever. The primary political incompatibility, and the second then and the obligations that have been made by... And a series of others, so the material reasons are at stake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'd like to end Thank you. [[Intruding Brkić: A colleague, your time is running out unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85254	Thank you. Next debate, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85255	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Today when we talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, I would dedicate my first part of the presentation to district schools. In fact, we need to remember where our district schools are mostly and how they are built. Generally, district schools in areas of special state care are in some smaller settlements, better say villages. In the area of the town of Vodice, we have OS Vodice and it has its own regional school in Tribunj, but it covers an entire municipality and we cannot compare it with those district schools we have, for example. in the back of the town of Skradin or somewhere in the hinterland. These regional schools were mainly made by the donations of the Japanese or Norwegian governments, the European Investment Bank’s funds and certainly when such funds were available in the Republic of Croatia that numerous mayors, the mayors then applied and their derutative facilities in the eligibility studies wrote instructions that over the years, that the number of students would be growing, that we would have dozens of students in those schools, listed the taxis from all villages or villages from which the children would attend that regional school. However, now about 10-15 years later, the picture is quite different and we have fewer schools with less children than we have villages that should direct children to this regional school. On the other hand, we have schools in the same area that are extremely well - equipped. For example. In the area of the town of Vodice, we have the elementary school of the Pure Great. She is a very well-organized school, equipped school, we have one-way work, we have a three-part sports hall where all the children from Vodice elementary school and all the residents of the town of Vodice envy. So that a child could attend such a school even when we look at certain settlements that are adapted to these district schools are closer to the elementary school of the Pure Great, but it is not an organized transport. Because we have made it possible for these district schools to go to the same district schools by network of schools. I'd like to appeal to all of us as a politician on this occasion because we're making major failures. When it comes to closing one district school, then she'll be very happy to have another policy option to want to get points here and talk, see, that's the incompetence of mayors, mayors, mayors, he didn't fight, here we are now lost and that's the area school. The facility may be closed for a while, and if more children were to be re-activated in the villages in the area tomorrow. So I would really appeal to all of us here because we see signs of closed area school. I don't know, the numbers of 60 district schools are closed and so on. You should see, if it's in the child's interest, if the child's going to have an even better education, an education at a high-quality school as I said we really have in Pure Great, I'm not up for it, but I do support that in the first place being a child and his education and that we're neglecting those earlier and I'd say investment, they shouldn't be missed. It doesn't matter what we got funds from one of them, either... either the Government of a Norwegian or Japanese. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This space can wait for a better time, it can now be used to gather older populations and so on. I can see Mrs. Climate with my head and so on. I'm sure it's not easy. You are in charge of education and education, the mayor is in charge as founder for primary schools, he certainly watches, our Sibenik-Kninski will look his way and watch his county, Zadarski looks at his county. But if we're going to put the kid first and put everything else in the second, third or best last plan, I think it's going to contribute a lot more to us all together. Then it's the only way we can implement some reforms, and this way there's no reform if we're all going to stick to something already acquired, then there's no change. There's no change even for the better. The second part of my debate I wanted to devote myself to starting a high school. In fact, the city of Vodice started an initiative to open a high school as early as 2008. It's a pity we're a town with nearly 10,000 inhabitants. We don't have a high school. For example, 107 children are enrolled in Vodice this year in the first class. We have sweet concerns, a problem with the accommodation of children in kindergartens, so now we plan and build a new kindergarten, and so we have all the necessary permits and so on, and if we add all those children to which it is closer to coming to Vodice to high school than to Sibenik, these are all children from the municipality of Pirovac, the municipality of Murter-Kornati, the municipalities of Tisno and the municipality of Tribunj. Then we see that almost every year we have newly enrolled high school students almost 200 from our area. We'd say, on this side of the bridge. And we still don't have a high school, no matter what the city of Vodice was willing to provide space, secure equipment, co-finance the transportation of staff of professors, what should be meant by accounting staff officers and so on, co-financed the coverage of income shortages, all of which we were prepared and regardless of the well-willed mayors and county of the assembly who also made that decision, again there was no establishment of a high school. For what? Each of those high schools in Sibenik has its own school board. As they are all already on the border, there are only 3-4 departments that are enrolled each year, there is a threat that if one department moves to Vodice, they will no longer have their autonomy and independence. And now who's gonna let a class headmaster stay in Vodice, so he's out of school tomorrow, so he doesn't need human resources, so he doesn't need accounting and everything. High school's the only one she's got in 6 classes every year, but of course we're not taking three high school classes now. With all this, we find new problems when it comes to transportation, so are these district schools and high school schools. So even if we decide to go through all these obstacles with the school boards, now we have a transport problem because someone from the other end of the county should go, if we only have tourist workers in the county exclusively in Vodice, it must come from Primosten to Vodice. And so, I mean, if I didn't explain, in any case, I would, I'd ask these two segments that I'm talking about right now that you know the same thing about these problems, that somehow you see how, through the amendments and the addition of the law, to make it easier for all those who have a good will, to do something better in OS and S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D., or our children? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85256	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85257	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, by preparing for this debate, I have read the law and all that is related to it, so when you want to print those 960 pages out of some things, and in fact through this debate, through the club's representatives and individual debates, more or less colleagues have touched everything that I've partly wanted to talk about in this individual debate, so I'm going to give up some of the things that have been said here, not to repeat and take up time. But I'm going to speak as a father, so I'm not an expert in either primary school or high school education and my respect always goes to teachers, teachers and teachers, and it's very hard to talk from these Assembly benches about something, some programs, curiculas of any kind when you're not professional about it, demeaning the work of all these people, valuable people who actually raise our children. I'll say something I say as a parent I can without hearing in these discussions. So I believe the task force that has been working on the amendments and additions to this law, but it should also be said that these amendments and additions, these are eleven amendments and additions, and by some rule you know, when you have three and more you always have to pass one whole law. But when you look at this law on OS and SSH education or the Labour Act, it's all the laws that have 200, 300 and more articles, and it's normal that life and dynamic and things happen, and changes and additions, you can never predict everything, and I'm from these changes and additions as much as I've seen, I've read a lot of good things, a lot of things that are applicable to unnecessary administrations that are being abolished, there are some things that we've talked about before in the Croatian Assembly, let's just say it was a mid-term evaluation, whether it's motivated or not, but the minister has denied this because it's also a professional public, and the parents who took part in that said that it should be a descriptive evaluation at the mid-term, and I agree with that. If the waist says so and the parents accept it, yes. What you should always look at, I'm not saying that can be done with these changes and additions, but it should be, going in step with time. And so in education, some new things that happen today in our society, and for which perhaps neither teachers nor teachers are trained, but they are delayed, and I primarily think about these digital, technological things that affect society and teachers, and also children that we can't actually touch with any tools, I know that here you're talking about certain disciplines, and that even in that work, you would have made a part of these amendments and additions to the laws, but let's just say you didn't touch that. I know it is difficult, but it should be thought about it and that is the correlation with the economy, so to work, especially in SSH education what is relevant and what is good for the Croatian economy, it may seem impossible when changes and additions happen, but this first step is also an important step in changes and additions. I know that in Germany at school, say class teacher by the fourth grade she actually determines and deploys children after which school she will go to, whether she will go to realschule,... High school, the state again allows for the possibility that even after a while, especially the adolescent age that children from one school can go to another school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think if it were up to us in the Republic of Croatia, it would be a revolution because I myself have witnessed myself working through some and being a member of certain school boards, that sometimes parents are too loud, they're unequivocal, and they want to participate and I would say, "Be more dominant than those who implement the program in our schools and then, in a line of less resistance, some teachers, teachers, not wanting to go into any kind of conflict with their parents, which I don't think is good and will leave that space to their parents, who are often not professional, but because of too much love for their children who attend that school, make a mistake for themselves and their children. What I want especially for you ministers apostrophyrate, I remember saying that three and four years ago in this Croatian Parliament. I have a neighbor, and I know a friend, and I even have one family where five kids are all in lower music school, high school music school, and they're in high school, or elementary school. It is amazing to say that a child who is a 2nd grade of music school has enough or good music in high school or in OS. It's not normal for me, and I'd like to say that those kids, at least those hours, the one who has those kids at music school, know that they practice at 5, 6 hours a day, so that when they have music education at school, I won't say freed that class, but that's not what I think about those kids who are in sports, who are intense in training, I think they should be taken care of without talking about the help that these kids, or their parents have as one extra cost. What's important, and less is said in these changes and supplements, you said a few things in your presentation about teachers, teachers and teachers, and I agree with the severance, I think that's correct. I think it's good to take away work ability, we've had such cases in practice, but it's hard to do because of the collective itself, but also according to his employee, a colleague who's in that school, and we know and feel through children and through a collective that he's not capable of doing these jobs and that he'd actually stay in the collective, work on, but that he can't, for example, continue to work with the kids in the class or in the lower departments, which was a lot of cases. Perhaps another thing for the end, which I asked you at the very beginning, was related, and so did my colleague Batinić, for a public and private partnership, so the world does not start with you or from you, from your ministry, we spoke in this House in 2012 when we passed the Law on Public-private Partnership and the way it was presented in the Republic of Croatia and then and its changes in 2014 and we know that individual founders of schools, generals and counties then accepted certain programmes that were in the public-private partnership. I know that there are also certain difficulties today, perhaps even with my question today in your replica, I consulted later on with Mr. Falcon who told me actually certain things that I think should be solved definitely, but there must be no discrimination against those who have dealt with it in a different way, struggling to get those funds easily through a public-private partnership and should not be forgotten, in public-private partnership were contracts and obligations 20, 25 or 30 years, as Mr. Boris tells me. This establishment of classrooms I think that is what Ms. Branka Martinchev said, so Croatia should not just look through northwestern Croatia, through the city of Zagreb or large settlements but should look through Slavonia, and through Sisak, Banovina, through our islands, the Dalmatian Zagora where there are really problems. I was invited to one anniversary of 150, the anniversary of a small school, then a small school, so in 1865 that once had up to 800 students, today there are 37 elementary schools. I know this is difficult to sustain and it costs a lot of money to the state, but I think we should look at certain demographic shifts if there are such schools in the Republic today because they have their perspective no matter how much they are costing and burdening the ministry itself, given the number of technical and teaching staff. I'm glad and related to this so that some high school students can enter the same class twice, but practice has shown that in some cases we have a different situation. So when there's a valid reason and I think it's written here by the Minister himself, or the Minister may continue to attend that school. This especially pleases me when dealing with people with disabilities, or for other reasons that could have happened in a car accident or something like that. The use of EU funds... Upadica Brkić: Thank you, dear colleague Babić, for your time./... Here's what I'm going to end with, thank you very much for this proposal to amend and supplement the law and to you for your responsibilities, Your Honor, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85258	Thank you very much. You're very kind. We move on to the next debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, is not present. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we discuss this law, it is impossible not to touch the problems we have in the education system, although the minister may say that it is politicizing, but we cannot escape from it. All who are citizens of this country, who have children or have someone in the family who attends the system, are aware that nothing spectacular has happened in the last two years, on the contrary, that we have stopped, unfortunately both in time and in space. And nothing's going on. We stopped after one I would say, a successful project that almost came into life after we were hit by an accident that came the government that brought Croatia back quite a bit, the Karamark government, headed only at first sight by Tihomir Oreshkovic, everything happened that the system had collapsed and now it's trying to do something that we did qualityly, come back again, but not in a way that essential things are being solved but that it's creating an impression. And now that you see the messages that go from the ministry, the things that are presented to Croatian citizens, you see that these are the projects we have secured, will be, so all the futur, experimental programs that move next school years again for some of the classes in just a certain number of schools. It means less than two years, but we almost didn't move from what we thought we were going to live and what we needed to live for a few years ago. So we can't get away from it and that the ministry and the system characterises usually some affair, this last affair with the directors of the defenders, of course, it has nothing to do with the Homeland War or whatever it takes to owe people as gratitude, but it should be aware that some systems and some things need primarily favoring the profession and only then certain other things, and now we don't know what's going on in this particular case, it would be good for the minister to say that, whether that guidance is withdrawn, whether it will apply, whether it's going to be one way or another. So Croatian citizens are interested in such things. We cannot also escape that our teachers and teachers, I was saying this in my replica at the beginning of the Minister's office, working for no pay, I would like to say, to deal with Ms. Minister, except for the announcement that 30% will be higher wages for those participating in EU projects, which the entire state service has. So everyone who worked in the system, we know that everyone who is involved in certain projects, has the opportunity to have 30% higher salaries, which are refinanced from European funds. But, again, it's a very small number of people. This is not, as I would say, something which is a systematic solution to the problem, because it will again become a certain part of the schools, a small part of the schools and a small part of the teachers that are working today, I would say in some situations, twice as much as colleagues in the EU, and have a salary 3 times lower. And since unfortunately people are leaving Croatia every year, so these captains, that is, the number of people we need, are shrinking and then people become surpluses, and finally, one occupation, which is very honorable and which should be the foundation of our society, is becoming quite problematic. And when you see that with a high level of expertise, someone after 30 years or 35 years of work has a salary that is less than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, I don't know what kind of message we send to our teachers and teachers in high schools and primary schools, or, to our children, to study for that occupation and to finally have quality education. So we can make the curricula whatever we want, we can resist the attacks, I'd say, right-handed, and even, here, and the minister has had such experiences, but when we bring in a certain program, who's going to implement it, in what way, where they're going to implement it, how they're going to carry it out, how they're going to have their schools equipped. I was talking about a school where my children are going to school, which is 185 years old school in the City of Zagreb, where windows fall practically as long as schools are not being held. In winter there is no hot water at school, so then children and, of course, as children are children, do not wipe their hands properly. Who has a little more sensitive skin, like my child, comes home with chills and so forth. This tells you enough where our education is, that is, even in the City of Zagreb, which has more resources and should invest in its schools and infrastructure. Of course, we have a mayor here who prefers to invest in fountains and certain mini monuments, instead of investing, where we should, which is that our children have better quality education and better quality buildings and more equipped buildings and all that is related to it. And it can't be said there I would say, not to mention it in the Croatian Parliament, no matter what the experts from certain parties who don't even know where they are, then they warn me that this applies to local self-government units, I am aware of that. This is so, but the minister should take care of the entire system and anywhere in Croatia, if there are no basic conditions, or the health of children is at risk, perhaps because of the failure to maintain the building, whether it is in Zagreb, in Vukovar or anywhere else she should react. I, as a politician and as a parent, have to react to such things, no matter what the minister will probably say again that it is politicizing, but I wish I had no reason to politicise like that. I wish the situation were much better, I wish I didn't worry about it that way, as a parent, I wish our children had more equipped schools, not to talk in futur, constantly, we've secured, it's going to be etc. It's about seeing these projects. Because believe me, two years have passed, and I don't see any special changes in our education compared to what was before, what was six months. during Karamark and Oreshkovic, he would prefer to forget, if that is possible. But from then on, two years ago, there hasn't been much more important, almost nothing, except some scandals, tensions, whether it's gonna be this secretary of state or not, whether it's gonna be principals and defense attorneys with a head start or not, it dominates our system, the curicula is gone, the people who did this job, they did this job, I think, excellently. Many countries, in our neighborhood, have copied certain parts of the programme, but as this policy and ideology has crawled in where it shouldn't be, the government, that is, HDZ ignored 50,000 people who protested for it and who wanted it, they only wanted one thing, which is a better education for their children. And that right, I think we all do, and we look forward to it. And on that side, neither the ministry representatives nor the minister should be angry when we look forward to it, but unfortunately, it does not. And I get the feeling that this trip, I'd say, is Mrs. Divjak in politics, which is a professor, is basically just a cover for the Vrdoljak and his combinations in energy and certain other things, where they've deeply released their roots. So, Mrs. Divjak, let's just say it like that, don't get angry, the cover would say, or I won't tell them who's going to be in the energy or who's going to be in LNG, whether it's floating or fixed, whether it's going to be the price of gas like this or like this, but what matters to you is that education of our children, as much as the man in the fifth veins is trying to explain. And to see that it is so, it is seen, here are colleagues from the CNS, who are calmly listening and are aware of it themselves, that it is so, so I cannot deny it, what is clear to everyone. If, say people, if voted, as a squirrel looks, like a squirrel, then it's very likely to be a squirrel. So it's about education and HNS, and here, I want something to change, and I hope it changes, but I have no illusion that it's going to be so fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85260	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85261	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll just try to say a few more things that seem important to me to point out. I'm going to start a little bit atypical of this now my individual debate. I mean, you know, when you meet a school janitor, you ask him why you didn't mow this schoolyard, he says my trimmer's broken, it doesn't work. Well, come on, we'll borrow a trimmer, we'll find somewhere. But, you know, I don't even have any gas, we can't buy. Then you see teachers who wear toilet paper to school, wear papers so they can print their works. When we see the situation in schools, then we actually see the depth of the problem we're in. It's a question of uniformity of standards in our schools and definitely not standards in all schools equal. Here's something right now in a previous discussion, my colleague Maras said that even in Zagreb, there are schools where windows fall off. So whenever we talk about educational reform, and I am deeply convinced that education reform cannot be stopped. No one can stop her. She's gonna happen. When we talk about educational reform, then we have to talk about money, money doesn't have enough. 6% of the salary was taken from teachers at the beginning of the crisis, even the current finance minister signed it, promised to return it to them. They're actually getting it back, and that's what's important, be careful. But I have to point that out for my teacher. So they're not given anything extra, they're just getting back what's been taken away from them. We can also look at things like that, but in any case, to praise that their material status is improving, because many colleagues and colleagues have said that today in society being a teacher is actually a rather ungrateful job because teachers are not appreciated so much in society, and their material status is low. Let's go back to this part about the projects. We welcome it means teachers are rewarded, but danger always exists. In good intentions, it can be wrong. If I'm not mistaken, when a timely measure is passed... that teachers can't after 30 years of internships have to use, at least in high schools, they have to use bonus hour or two less in class. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've heard that this injustice is now corrected, that they can now decide whether to use it, so they can have extras. But watch out, the years have passed and the injustice has been done. It's not a big amount of money, but it's done. And now let's get back to this part. 30% is fine, but I don't understand that provision part of the article, I don't know what the item where their week commitment is reduced. So it turns out she has to shrink and now I'm back, how we're going to do it with the secretary, the accountant, and the project manager. Can't the principal get a raise if he's working on the project. How are we going to reduce the week's commitment to the principal? That's impossible, at least from my point of view. And what's going to be, what colleague Sonja Cikotic opened, what's going to happen to those young people who are working on the project, actually who are hiring to replace those who are working on the project and after a while lose their job. About unequal conditions in schools and the poorest county. There is a clear correlation between the degree of poverty and the degree of education. You see, according to the Peace Studies Centre around half the students are enrolled in a college whose parents are highly educated, at least one parent is highly educated. Also, a little more than half of whom at least one parent has a secondary education. And you know how much with elementary school, whose parents are with primary school? Only 3%. It's very hard to get out of poverty. Why would I bring that up? We will have after this point, the point of increasing child's allowance is coming and it is therefore important that the minister cooperates with the other ministers. Why wouldn't the poorest students be allowed to receive a child's allowance after the age of 18? That should be co-operation between the two ministries. It's the same thing with scholarships. In particular, Minister, in particular, warn Minister Maric that those scholarships from the business sector are to be given tax reliefs in all possible ways to all those who give students from the business sector of the entrepreneurship scholarship because it has a double role. First, it allows students to study, and secondly, it binds them to stay here and work. Of course, if they offer them adequate incomes. What are the recommendations, I'm going to use a little bit now and find the Peace Studies Centre, and I like that research they've done. So, what do they recommend? Increase the number of preschool children. That preschool education is very important. From 6 months of life to 6 years of age and back in rural areas. Here, I come from Slavonia, it's a very small number of kindergartens, we only have that obligation a year before the start of schooling so-called. Small schools. But a small number of children go to preschool. Again we have and research shows that in poorer areas there are fewer qualified teachers. That's what research shows. So it's also needed in that direction... Standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has already been mentioned here certainly to provide funds for the purchase of information equipment. I welcome the Minister's efforts and this is a safe road for the 21st century school. So, student scholarship, that's what we've already mentioned. One more detail to mention. Social status scholarships are up to 4 times less than scholarships related to excellence. That's a little bit too, this one... In this regard, the ministry should perhaps consider helping those poorest ones to get money in a different way so that they can finish their education. To mention immediately, it is very important for the education system in this regard to welcome the change of the Croatian Qualifications Framework. It is very important to ensure the vertical and horizontal passing of the system and adult education, as we are also far behind indicators for EU countries in adult education. In the qualification framework, it is good that students of professional studies are also allowed to continue the highest degrees of education and these are important things that will improve the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia at the end of the day. And in the end all this talk is let's say this, abstract if really we as a society don't decide. It was with us, we had the Croatian National Education Standard, so for a time we were repeating as parrots of the society of knowledge, knowledge is really the way that this society and economic and in every other respect progresses and should fight and the minister should have support there, we should fight for as much separation for science and education as possible because this is a safe way to success. The countries that have been successful have shown that. Let us take just an example of Estonia that has done a great miracle and only through information, so through education of all levels of society to use the latest information technologies. And I will only finally mention another minister, once again the requests of secretaries and accountants and other school workers, and regarding their material status, so it would be good for the secretaries in the future to think about equating them with professional co-workers in primary and secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85262	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. We have a final on behalf of Klub representative of the HNS, respected colleague Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85263	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I need a few closing words on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club. Of course, this has also partly encouraged me to discuss certain colleagues and colleagues precisely because we in the HNS consider education to be the key to the success of development and future of the Republic of Croatia. The first finding, I believe, is that we are all more or less in agreement. Secondly, this law does not have an ideological component, however, there have been a series of attempts to insinuate itself and to raise the debate on this law to that level which is practically not suitable because there are no elements or grounds for debate at all at that level. This is one though technical procedure of this change and addition, but extremely important. So first and foremost, to create as high-quality assumptions as possible for the implementation of the curricular reform, to correct, and based on the context of the times in which we are and certain shortcomings, certain failures, but to send very clear messages. Yes, the HNS is a small party, the HNS has stopped and has given political support to Minister Blaženko Divjak, we may be small by the number of MPs, but as far as ideas, reflections, as far as the vision of our future Croatia is concerned, we are nothing for others, even in front of many of whom we have, by the way, worked with in the past. As for the discussion of colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, I can only say that I am sorry that they have such rhetoric, which they argue in such a way. We were together in the government, they had a chance for four years, but they didn't make it. They also failed to implement what was realistically objective in four years. When we remember the strategy itself, which was adopted in it, when we remember certain processes that began, they did not finish, the elections were now Blaženko Divjak, who is a non-party minister with full political support from the HNS with his team working and continuing the job. It will have full support not only for the CNS but also for the coalitions, it has the government's support precisely because it is of interest to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and primarily for those before whom the future is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85264	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinic. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Ms Blaženka Divjak, the respected minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85265	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, everyone you've endured here, for bringing this debate to an end. I thank everyone for the debate, and I especially thank those who led and debated the argument and constructively and on the subject of the Law on Education and Education, which we said should be the basis for reforming education, entering our school in the 21st century, and quality education based on scientific knowledge is certainly a strong demographic measure. In this regard, I will refer to the comments which were in the debate and most of them to those that applied to the law itself, although there were issues that were beyond context, so I will briefly answer these questions where I have been registered. So there's been a lot of debate about funding pay increases from e-projects, and I think this regulation that we have is well-designed, it's worth it to all the employees. Of course, there is a specific way of standardising the work of teachers and teachers in relation to work when, for example, accounting officers or secretaries, the proportion of the work that is done on the project is increased or there is no burden on the state budget, and, for example, a new person can be employed at half-time by an accountant. And in that sense, I think the message is good, the message is good. We have new employment, we have rewarding for those who have worked hard, who know how to withdraw funds and there is no direct burden on the state budget, and it should be kept in mind that the priority is the uninterrupted work of the school, it also says in these provisions. Now I'm going to be taxing through some of the things I've recorded, so here I am begging you for patience in that part, not answering questions extensively. Repeating the class more than twice was a question, yes, most of it because of the disease, we often get such questions. The deadlines for bringing documents to school moved to search for schools, with the plan and the programme continuing to be brought in August making it different. Then we really took our chances and went to schools in Croatia. I will point out on this occasion that my assistant Vlado Sprayo visited almost all of the vocational schools, 250 vocational schools in Croatia, entered every school. This is important to us, it was related to those amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Education, it is important to us because of the regional centres of competence. Assistant Lydia King, who sits patiently and listens and records everything spoken in the Croatian Parliament, has attended 32 schools so far. The intention is to go to all experimental schools by autumn, and of course we're going wider. Next, a little more on the secretaries and accountants. This is not regulated by this law, the coefficients are regulated by the Public Service Coefficients Regulation, in that sense we will send this request to you. So as for potential directors, the issues of the work programme, we also accept the observation we heard in the very constructive Committee on Education where it was said that, in addition to presenting the work programme for the five-year period, other than presenting it to the school board, to present it to the Parents' Councils and the Teachers' Councils, or the Teachers' Councils. And we must also say that the way and procedure of appointing the director is described closer by the school's statutes. What we're not in this case, so we didn't propose to change school's, so the composition of the school board, there's not much agreement on possible improvement, and we stick to the need to encourage school autonomy, so the school is autonomously deciding, and so we think it's a good thing that in some way those who are directly related to school, teachers, employees, parents have four votes on the school board. This is for the school halls I think, that's what we've already talked about. As regards the licensing of teachers and directors, it is envisaged in the strategy and also exists in Article 117 of the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education. I'm sure we'll have at least a pilot project soon. We talked a lot about vocational education last time, so I'm not going to refer to that much right now, but there have been a lot of questions about extended stay. I think that we need to distinguish extended stay and full-time teaching, and we think it's very important, so that schools can work in one shift, so that we can achieve standards that allow activities in schools that are related to teaching and teaching themselves, because let's not forget that by the number of classes our students spend in schools, we are at the very beginning of the EU, it's important to see. However, 40% of schools have no conditions in Croatia for one-way teaching and what we are doing now to program this one-way course for the 2020/27 period. In this respect, we should also use funds and resources from the state budget. Well, there's been a lot of talk about schoolwork. Maybe I'll come back at some point. Rewarding in schools, so what we're going to change is the rule of progress, plus rewarding. In doing so, this will soon be started, we will use suggestions that come from teachers and from schools. Of course, a lot of the proposals that you have today cannot be resolved by amendments and additions, but our strategy provides for a change in the structure of education, from nine-year-old OS, as Mr Batinic or compulsory secondary school mentioned, but when we do these structural changes it will certainly require a new law. At this point, what we're doing right now, it's important that we secure the preconditions for these most important things we've talked about. I thank you for the proposals relating to the Employment Regulations, i.e. the employment of the Director. Of course, it is thought that this employment regulation covers and employs the director. However, if that provision is not clear, we will check and improve in that sense the law, the legal norm. Teachers' competences, so professional competences are just as important as pedagogical competences. Teacher qualifications are thought to be prescribed in the curricula in question, and we will also check that it is clear enough in the law. There were other topics, from entries that are not actually addressed in the law, but in the rulebook, so we took this into account for possible changes to the rules. There was another whole set of questions from specifically, so connected, yes. So we have a fellow Falcon tied to an expert task force. The role of the expert working group I think is well thought out, thought out in the action plan which will also soon be on the parliamentary committee and on the government, is clearly stated what role is played in this experimental phase, which is the role of the expert working group in the preparation of the curricula and approach for frontal introduction. The selection of reviewers we worked through the European Commission, so it was not chosen by name, but by means of a representativeship with the European Commission, countries we were sure had good education systems asked them to identify experts in their systems that could help us with the reviews. So it didn't go by name and last name, nor did the minister choose the reviewers. As far as the Homeland War topic is concerned, we, in fact, when we had this debate and on the board, were clearly said that the number of topics from the Homeland War and the range of hours handled by the Homeland War were increased in these new curriculaes, not reduced. The experimental textbooks come, they're now here 51, I think 51 sets were, so that's at the end of last week, 51 sets are committed, which I think is very good. In the meantime, something has arrived and this week is the end for everyone, except for the seventh grade, meaning experimental textbooks. What needs to be pointed out anyway is national prom. So the national prom adapts to the education system, not vice versa. So the education system won't adapt to the state's graduation. Therefore, all those who enter the experimental program, not only will they not be cut, but I will be the one thinking ahead. For what? Because of this, the goal is for the state's graduation to follow the approach that speaks of reducing the quantity. The fact that critical thinking needs to be increased, means tasks that are the problem type, and that's what we're doing right now. And the years, when the experimental program comes to the state's graduation, it's clear that in the state's graduation we'll be what's in the cross-section of the existing program and experimental program. It is, of course, the only possible way, and in that sense, is the guidance to the national center. Publishers, it was a matter of publishers, we don't solve publishers by this law, there is a Law on textbooks, which is also in the plan of normative activities for this year. Professional education by special law is particularly apostrophe of work-based learning, dual education, the Croatian dual education model is now ending. As far as the proposals were concerned, that a director who suspects the mental physical health of a teacher, that the teacher has the right to depart, unfortunately on the basis of doubt, is not possible as far as the lawyers have now explained to me by the basis of the Labour Act. But of course you should think about what these are mechanisms that then educate children, protect that you need to react quickly in cases that are acute. For the director, a job of 10 years is kept no longer. Then, after 15 years after 3 mandates, they can place their place in the system in the same way as teachers who are technologically surpluses. As far as schooling is concerned, whether or not to be taken to assess whether children's health is at stake, we will, of course, consider it, and after that, see if we need to change the proposal that's on the table at this point. As far as the public private partnership is concerned, I think it's a clear provision in the law, that, all such contracts, are governments, and not ministers, it still gives an opportunity to spread it and to make all aspects of the assessment. Inclusive education, i.e., inclusive education is very important, we have provided for helpers in continuing, I think 50 million euros, for this period, for continuing assistants we think it is important and of 20,000 students with difficulties in the system, only 2000 are in special institutions, 18000 are in regular education, I think it is our success, but it certainly has what to improve in that part. I also thank you in a really good analysis of the relations between regional and parent schools and, of course, this principle that the child’s well-being should be put in the first place, and I think that it is a decisive principle and, in that sense, it should be further working. The new network of schools is not, therefore, a new network of schools should work on it and that is what we have also planned, and there is no need for legal change in this sense in this law. As far as we're concerned, there is no Mr. Maras, related to the director and the Croatian Defence Act. I explained it in detail this morning and I'm sorry that Mr. Maras wasn't in the assembly at the time, and since he's gone now, I'm telling him to read the phonogram. I think that would be good. As far as questions are concerned, even teachers' rights, with respect to teachers and teachers who have more than 30 years of training, a new collective contract, I think, better arranged that provision, so we gave an alternative, which means that someone who is a teacher, has more than 30 years of internships, can either have or can reduce the standard of 2% if they do not, have the right to increase, forgive 2 hours, reduce the norm, if not, have the right to increase the salary of 4%. I think it's a good measure. Of course, the social dimension in education, it's something I want to promote, and we're doing this 10,000 scholarships for students of poorer socio-equity status, which have the same height as those scholarships, the degree scholarship for excellent, means everything that the state does, does in that sense, to be equal scholarships, but I say, twice as many scholarships, socio-economic scholarships, rather than before, I think it's a strong message. And I agree that we need to cooperate and really think about how this taxation of these scholarships, or, if we pay someone a scholarship outside Croatia, we need to sort it out in a way that doesn't tax it. Preschool education is also increased by the basis of different investments, which from European funds, which I mention from the domestic budget, also regions, therefore, the Regional Development and Rural Development Fund, where really significant funds are allocated in this regard. I still have two questions here, I think, that were at a time when I had to go out for a while, referring to jubilee awards for 2013 so they were paid by a valid foundation of the Collective Treaty, but some students, teachers, or teachers, filed lawsuits that they thought belonged to them by some other basis and, of course, had their own court epilogue. And finally, this matter of technological surplus, I think I've answered it before. Here, I thank you all for your patience, I really ask you to recognize the common interest of this reform and education, and to really access these amendments and the additions of the law in a way that provides a good basis for it and of course we know that legal assumptions are only assumptions, and that we will achieve our full potential in a way that we are now preparing, where we are participating 1000 of our teachers, teachers, where we are preparing and the equipment, where the equipment is already partly in schools. We have an expert implementation since this fall, and full implementation since 2019-2020 that we need a lot of work here, a lot of patience and I thank everyone for the constructive remarks that we will take into account in the progress of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85266	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Branimir Bunjc, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85267	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, when we talk about these 2013 severances, it's the only generation of teachers who got severances lower than what belonged to other teachers, and I don't think there should have been any such lawsuits or judicial epilogues, and if there's any good will in the ministry, I think you can solve this problem yourself. So you just need to go a little deep in that case, I think you've had enough for a few hours and you'll find a solution to correct that injustice. And now as this debate was, these teachers and school workers wrote to me and begged me to ask you that question, so I'm basically just their medium now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85268	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85269	Thank you. I don't think you're talking about severance but jubilee awards, but maybe I'm wrong, in any case for jubilee awards I've answered before, so all that's paid off is under a valid basic collective contract, and all that's in court now, it's going to have its epilogue in that sense. But what I'm particularly happy about is that here we are a month ago in two grammatical collective agreements, meaning for primary schools and high schools, and that we are together with unions, I'm sure, well arranged this area and it will be much easier and better in the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85270	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85271	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you offered me a replica when you mentioned a network of schools, I think it's a very important question and you as a minister and the ministry have to act rationally because look, it's clear, nobody's against building schools, the founder's handsome, the mayor's adept at making district schools, you know there's a cut tape, there's an opening, a tile, it's all nice, it's beautiful, but the question is actually those measures between the socialization of children, is it better to make smart bus stops, good transportation and also drive them to be more in one school or in each place to build a regional school that will then be empty and then only a few students will go in it? That's why you as a minister must really take a rational look because politics always goes in that direction to build something, so there's little then and commissions and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85272	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85273	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, in my debate, I mentioned that I support this part of the law that allows state money to be built and invested in schools and that the school in Vukovar will finally be solved but I also asked the question, for many years it has been promised for children with special needs and developmental difficulties at Slavonski Brod elementary school Milan Amrush, there were promises to do so. The mother of one child has just sent me an inquiry to remind you of this promise and that this school is very much needed, that indeed all parents and these children deserve better schooling conditions. I'm also using the opportunity to ask about the transport of high school students, will it be settled in the fall, or will they run out of money, at what stage is that part of the deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85274	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85275	So for the school you mention in Slavonski Brod, here we are in the process of closing the deal, I believe that's good news for the end. We carry out our obligations as regards the transport of high school students and here is an inter-resor group established that should give more suggestions to solve the problem but not to expand the debate now, we don't have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85276	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the minister and her associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85277	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools. First reading, P.Z. 334. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. 1. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 75 for, 18 abstentions, 38 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85278	We will now move on to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra for Children, first reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Mrs Margareta Majeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85279	... Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Amendments to the Law on Extra for Children to be adopted on 1 July 2018 are proposed to create a more favourable environment and financial condition for families with children as one of the measures of importance for the promotion of demographic renewal and demographic development of the Republic of Croatia and is foreseen by the national reform programme for 2018 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the proposed normative solution, income censorship is changed, the total income achieved in the previous calendar year per household member per month as a condition for the achievement of the right to pay for children in such a way that from the current 50% budget base of €1663 is increased to 70% of the budget base of €2328, 20. This extends the range of potential users of extras for children and thus children who are entitled to an allowance as well as a range of potential users of the most innovative supplement that children benefit from under the applicable Child Supplement Act. It is estimated that this solution will produce a significant positive social impact through improving the status of future users of allowances for children who will be able to use this right as well as an impact on overall innovative movements and maintaining and raising the social security of families with dependent children. At the same time, the proposed draft bill amends the provision on the age limit for the achievement of allowances for a child who attends high school in a way that allows for the use of extras for those children, high school students whose secondary education programme lasts for 5 years. In addition, the law allows the right to an allowance for children to be paid from the day of birth and not from the date of application for an allowance for children as prescribed by the applicable law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85280	Thank you very much. Although you have a very short exposure there are a number of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85281	Thank you very much. Madam State Secretary, the rate of relative child poverty in the Republic of Croatia is 7% higher than the European average, and the rate of long-term poverty is also very high and only Romania and Bulgaria are worse than we are. It is difficult for me to imagine that this Law will prevent child poverty or that it will dramatically increase the quality of family life. It's even harder to bring this law into contact with, as you said, demographic restoration. Why? Because the child's allowance has not changed for 17 years for a single kuna. So you can increase the coverage as much as you want and do it. You're going to increase the number of families that are going to use a child's allowance, but do you really think 200 kuna, how many families should get to have more children? To decide on the first, second and third children and I'm sorry, in fact, that a month ago you didn't adopt an SDP Act on Child Extra charge that went to an increase in child's allowance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85282	Thank you very much. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, surely this is just one in a series of demographic measures implemented by our Ministry and Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to point out here once again that these amendments and additions to the Children's Extras Act are being extended by a circle of users who will be entitled and entitled to a child's allowance as of July 1st this year. It's going to be about 150 thousand potential users. So children who will have these new amendments and additions to the Law are entitled to use child's allowance, which also extends the circle of users of the most important supplement for the third and fourth children, and surely it is both a family and a demographic measure, not just a social one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85284	The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85285	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you, Croatian citizens who work in Croatia, and live on the edges of the BIH or anywhere, whether they have the right to a child's allowance. Of course, demographic restoration is necessary, we all see it, and it's mentioned everywhere. I believe that people who work in the Republic of Croatia and live in the BiH should have the same right as everyone else who is here in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85286	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative, these amendments to the Children's Compensation Act are not intended to extend the circle, but we have gone to an extension of a circle of potential users who will exercise the right to a child's allowance in the Republic of Croatia, as I have pointed out about 150 thousand potential children's users since 1 July if such a law is amended and amended in the Croatian Parliament they will have the right to use a child's allowance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85288	The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85289	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I think it is very brave to declare this measure a demographic measure because it is only a social measure and will definitely not get any results that our citizens decide to have a second or third child. That this is a measure of social policy and so it should be presented, I think that it should have the courage to go to the ultimate measure, which is a universal children's allowance that a modern democratic country can achieve and I think you should have thought about it. And when we talk about demographic indicators and demographic politics, young families will decide first, second or third children when they have a safe job and when they can reconcile family and professional life, and you haven't changed anything with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85290	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85291	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative, as I pointed out, it is one in a number of family, innovative, demographic measures, and the result is that it expands the number of users. About 150 thousand children will now have more than 150 thousand children entitled to use child's allowance. So far, 291 thousand have been used in this year, so 150 thousand more children, and about 150 million kunas will be allocated to it, so it is certainly one of the most promising measures, by not only expanding the circle of children's allowance users, but also expanding the circle of those who will use the most promising supplement for the third and fourth children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85292	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85293	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, almost two months have passed since Minister Murganic's statement that a state secretary for demographics will soon be appointed. That's when she said, all the measures planned are carried out even more intensely. However, it is not because here, even the president is extremely concerned and yesterday she called and moved the government's meeting on the subject of demographics. And here I am, also asking you a question when will the new State Secretary for Demography be appointed?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85294	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85295	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, the demographic measures are being implemented because, in order not to be implemented, we would not be here today and would not, among other things, represent amendments and additions to the Children's Compensation Act, we would not have a tender opened from the European Social Fund, 300 million kunas for harmonising the private and business obligations of parents by extending the work of kindergartens for the first time since there is an independent Republic of Croatia will coordinate the work of kindergartens with the working hours of parents. 75 million kuna for improving the infrastructure of children's kindergartens and a number of other activities carried out by our ministry, as well as other ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. And what I can conclude is that the results are there, and we are actively working together, and I am sure that all these measures that we represent and the activities we are doing will help the demographic restoration of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85296	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85297	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. That's what I said on the board, I suggested the last point about the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, so here's what I'm going to say at the plenary session. So I welcome the expansion of the scope of these families that will receive a child's allowance and the appreciation of this fact that some students have spent five years in high school education. However, because of the fact that a very small number of students, we also have poor families should think about making it possible for those parents of the weakest social status to pay child's allowance and after 18 years of age for children to study. At this point, it's hard to say how many such students would be, but it would certainly help these families to have their children school and finish their studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85298	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for your suggestions. With these changes and additions, we predicted that the circle of users would be extended to those whose secondary education lasted five years, and certainly everything you pointed out and related to demographic measures, but the most socially endangered. I would like to point out here that this government has increased the birth benefits by 50% for another six months, so 2,663 kuna, now 3.911 kuna, and that is also one of the demographic measures implemented by our ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85300	Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and we are starting with the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists in the name of which Sonja Cikotic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85301	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, colleagues from the ministries. I would like to say that it is necessary for the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Supplement Act to be conducted in a quality debate because when it comes to children's rights, we need to communicate them clearly and provide for all instruments for the implementation of children's rights. Today, unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia does not have a clear family policy, so we are constantly experimenting with family law, family centres, various givings, and one of them is certainly a child's allowance. Children's allowance is one of the children's rights and support families in ensuring minimum standards for quality child growing. We welcome the announced extended database of children's allowance users, and the result will be that it will be a wider coverage of our families with the right to a child's allowance. The problem is that it is simply not enough, that we are raising the income limit to enter the circle of the payee does not solve anything but it is directly recognised that the poverty line is far higher than it has been set so far. However, even if we raise the income limit from 50 to 70% of the budget base, which today stands at 3.326 kuna, which means that they now have the right to children's allowance and those who, according to the House's article, have 2,328 kuna and 20 June, have no talk about some alleged common policy but we remain within the framework of social assistance and mere survival both for those who have received a child's allowance so far and for those who are going to have the happiness that the law recognized that they too need state support. The only question is why are we offering this support? Is this how they assure us of the purpose of supporting and raising children, or for the purpose of hoarding poor and underprivileged incomes, or for mere survival? In addition, the question arises, why do we bind the child's allowance to the budget base, not for example. With an average salary? We all know that the budget base is a completely artificial and non-life category that hasn't changed in years, while living expenses, especially for the care of children from day to day, are growing. Although this government swears on the stability of living costs, public service costs are increasing, they are becoming more and more unreachable to our citizens and so on to children. As a result, further binding of any right to a budgetary basis which is almost fixed and unchangeable in the conditions of a permanent increase in living costs does not make sense and cannot have any importance for the most intelligent policy. Eventually, we could talk about a social transfer with the fact that it's even questionable what keeping such an unlifeless criterion is about. Obviously, it is necessary to apply more meaningful and excessive reforms that are not in sight. Instead, it is proposed that the worst populism of spreading the circle of those who will receive a monthly allowance of between 200 and 300 kunas or other words, toss people crumbs, blur their eyes, there is no plan, something has to be done, and then we open up a state treasure and share something. At the same time in this draft law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states that the proposed expansion of the Child Compensation Users base believes or does not require new employment. New employment in HZMO and not more than 20 new employees. So I'm asking you, you have a Public Administration Development Action Plan 880 million kuna, for the digitization of public services, why don't we digitize the application process for child support? So if the IRS handles our tax returns every year at 2 months, why don't they immediately determine who has the right to do so, it can all be automated? You have 105m euros available in priority 2 at the Ministry of Regional Development and eu funds for eServices. My colleagues and colleagues, 1/5 of Croatia's inhabitants are at risk of poverty. At this risk, children are particularly vulnerable. Instead of really helping them, we offer new officials who will probably take care of their rights. It is clear that such low supplements will not contribute to strengthening family policy, nor will it help families to settle food costs, to raise, to education and other care of the child, but only to strengthen the obvious need in HZMO. A particular problem is the small difference between the highest and lowest amount of surcharge, and the difference between household incomes is huge. So the family where the average income per household member is 534 kuna will receive 300 kuna children's allowance, and the family where the average income per household member is 2300 will receive 200 kuna extras. About kids having different needs at different ages, I can see that there's no speech here. All 200 or 300 kuna each, and we made our own. At the same time, while we are here discussing 200 or 300 kuna, while the government admires an increase from 50% to 70% of the budget base in local self-government units we have simply amazing things. Some give families at the birth of 1,000 kuna and the other several hundred thousand kuna. Such management of taxpayers' money is irrational and without any excessive criteria, water and ultimately discrimination against children in the same country because they have the same rights. We do not need to specifically talk about increasing everyone, and in particular children's rights we have the opportunity to hear before each election. There are promises of hills and valleys, such actions only increase inequality, and in no way do we provide systematic care for children, family or support for the purpose of maintaining, raising children as we proudly point out. This legislative proposal cannot be corrected by amendments because it is necessary to reverse, especially in the doing of ruling in ensuring rational other public policies, public administration reform, reducing bureaucratisation, reducing bureaucratic apparatus, dissipating entrepreneurship through labour price reduction, abolishing parafiscal burdens, a comprehensive approach to rationalisation of the health system, and all in order to ensure the means and the creation of a constructive and systematic family policy, and thus through the children's allowance institute has provided sufficient resources for adequate living conditions and growth with respect to all circumstances in which the child is located in terms of home and material opportunities. It's time as a society to tell us how important our children and family are to us. Of course, not declaratively, but truly through material support for the child and their parents. As I said, such a legislative proposal cannot be amended by amendments, therefore MOST will not support this legislative proposal but will send to the legal procedure its legal proposal that we will send a clear message through the provision of material conditions that every child and that every family is important to have reason to stay in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85302	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85303	I... I can hear myself without him. I can't before I start without noticing that in the first six clubs that say they're women. Now I wonder if we're the most interested in this topic or if there's still so-called. male and female subjects, which wouldn't be good. Namely, we have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and a supplement of the Law on Extra for Children. Therefore, responsibility for child care and their well-being is the constitutional right and duty of parents, but also the obligation of society to ensure conditions for better child development. We welcome at the Club of SDSS the changes that go towards improving the legal regulation through amendments and additions to the Law on Extras for Children with a view to a greater coverage of children's extras. At the end of 2017 in Croatia there were 153150 users extras for children, for 289671 children. The average amount of allowances for children was 374.21 kuna, with differences for the previous months being 384.85 kuna. Therefore, any individual and smallest measure showing childcare can have an impact. The definition of a child’s allowance states that this is the amount of money the state pays to parents with children and by preparing for this debate, I came across an interesting fact that before World War II, employers paid childcare fees to their parents. I don't even have the guts to think about what would happen if we had a situation like this today. The children's allowance certainly shouldn't be social assistance, which is obvious now that it is and the child's allowance is the right of all children in a number of EU countries, most of which have no birth problems, and is accompanied by numerous child benefits. Given the practice of individual European countries, support in the form of a child's allowance does not depend on income and very often poorer parents, property poorer with a child's allowance, which as a right belongs to their children, receive a special supplement. We will compare only some countries with which we have numerous legal and economic contacts, such as Germany, Austria, France and others. So the right to a children's allowance in Germany for their children is given to German citizens, but also to EU citizens residing in Germany. So also Croatian citizens who are not German citizens, but who are allowed to stay in Germany, are entitled to a children's allowance. In Austria, it's just like in Germany. Children's allowance is granted by Austrian citizens and EU citizens resident in Austria if they live in the same household with their child. The allowance for children in Austria is some kind of surcharge regardless of income and property. So it's also a child's right. The amount of surcharge is determined depending on age and grows with the child's growth, if parents have more children, the supplement increases in proportion to the number. France, which has had a problem with population growth in the past, has, therefore, successfully solved the policy of children's supplements and other measures, both by increasing the level and by extending the rights, and by giving more children tax relief. For example, we have now become close to Ireland for various reasons, so we are increasingly interested in their practice, so that all children living in Ireland have the right to a child's allowance regardless of the parenting process. The fact of life in Ireland and the independence of the right to the level of income of parents converts the child's allowance into an extremely independent right of the child. All of these European countries which provide special care for the promotion of birth as their own guarantee of the future of the nation and of the state. If the levels expressed in euro and the total weight of expenditure were compared and determined the percentage of decommissioning from the state budget, unfortunately we would have to find that Croatia is at the bottom. In any case, as a insistence to change this picture, we welcome the proposed solution that changes the income price, so the total income in the previous calendar year per household member per month, as a condition for the achievement of the right to pay for children in such a way that from the current 50% budget base rises to 70%, which means that the margin for receiving an allowance will no longer be 1663 kuna per household member, but 2328 kuna. In accordance with this, income census is also changed on the basis of which the individual amount of allowances for children is determined, that is, so on. the third censorship group referred to in Article 17(3) of this Act. The proposed provisions extend the range of potential users of child benefits, and thus children who are entitled to an allowance for children. At the same time, a range of potential users who make extra payments of 500 kuna per third and fourth children will be extended in accordance with Article 18 of the applicable law, thus providing additional assistance in enhanced child care. The proposed law amends the provision on the age limit for the achievement of the right to an allowance for a child who attends high school in such a way as to allow the use of extras for those children, i.e. students whose programme in secondary education lasts for 5 years. The law allows the right to an allowance for children to belong from the date of birth of the child, not from the date of the application for an allowance as prescribed by the applicable law, and at the same time the time limit for the application for the exercise of the right. It is not a waste here to stop on deadlines and to point out that the right to an allowance for children, for example, in Germany could be achieved retroactively backwards, so not even in 4 years if the conditions are met by German law. However, the most recent amendments to the legal rules that entered into force on 1.1.2018 may require an allowance for children for the past period reduced to 6 months from the date of submission of the application. This amendment to the German regulations is obviously the result of a certain restrictive policy, but if we compare it with Croatian policy and regulations that regulate the right to pay for children related to the date of application, it is evident that Croatian regulations are far more stringent and that they do not actually allow the recognition of the right to pay for children back. According to Croatian regulations, right-holders need to apply for an allowance for children until the 2nd month of the current year so that they can continue to receive an allowance without interruption in the year. It is not necessary to provide evidence of the total income of the household from the tax administration, the employer, the HZZ, the HZZ and the like, in addition to the request for an allowance for children. In addition to the employer’s confirmation of the compensation paid by the employer to HZZO. This is a fact to be welcomed, however, for all users whose claim for the right to grant child allowance after 28.2. the right will be recognised from the day of application, e.g. If one submits 1.3. his right to be recognized from that date, then the first two months will be lost, which will certainly reflect on the parents ’ budget, or children. Although we are all concerned together and we have the right to be concerned about the reduced population growth and poor demographic imagery, we see that they are planning to be taken away because of the appropriate long-term measures and I consider it necessary because it is still wrongly considered as the most important demographic measure suitable for the birth of a child who is different in different units of local self-government, I also find that this measure is important, but it is neither sufficient nor long-term, but as I said, appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85304	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljka Josic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85305	I thank the respected secretary of state with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues. As my predecessor said, most of these topics seem to be only women's interest, and we can see that by these few of our colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, but here is thanks to everyone who has of course remained on this very important topic. As you have seen, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Extra for Children. The HDZ Club will support this law because we believe that these amendments to the law can also benefit our parents and, of course, our children. As is said, child support is a financial support used to support and raise children. Of course, she's a form of monetary adoption of parents, adoptors, grandparents, so all those whose children are entrusted with care. Up until now, the child's allowance is determined on the basis of income censorship, up to now it was 50% of the budget base, i.e. 1663 kuna. We welcome that this income censorship is increased to 70% of the budget base, i.e. 2328 kuna. Why did that approach? We have seen from the above that according to the Croatian Pension Insurance data, the growing number of children's allowance users is increasing. And as my colleague pointed out before me, there was a significant decrease in the number of children's allowance users between 2015 and 2017. And also all of those children's extras who have three or four children received an innovative supplement, which reduced the number of these users. What I would say is, you've noticed here that it's not really a demographic measure, but it's a measure that can reduce child poverty. Why are we talking about child poverty? This is extremely important for the growth and development of a child at a later age. That is what some statistics tell us that poorer children suffer at a later age and from certain diseases, and it also affects certain psychological developments. As I mentioned, this measure is important for the purpose of supporting and raising children, and also, as I have mentioned now, for the welfare of the child himself. These amendments to the law are very important, because I very much welcome that children who are educated, who are S.H.I.E.L.D., have the opportunity in their last year to receive a child's allowance, which is of course very important for families who are worse in property because in this way we allow the child to complete his S.H.I.E.L.D. education successfully. What should be pointed out is that these changes to the laws of a family circle that are children’s extras are increasing by about 90,000 families, or about 150,000 children. According to the Institute of Economics, which carried out a very significant project on about 200 families, about 90 children, it was found that as many as 40% of parents are starving. We are all aware that only 200 kuna per child or 300 kuna per child will not significantly change the condition of this family, but it is not the only measure they can use. So the poorest families also use certain other social supplements. What I like, I can't tell my young parent anymore, but the French parent means that my child is always happy, fed, healthy, and when you look at this research, it was terrible for me to see, because all those children who have passed the research, regardless of their social status, stressed that they are still in their families where they get attention and love happy. Personally, I feel that care for children should not only belong to family, but also to society and the state. And that is why I believe that this will not be the only amendments to the law and the only measures that, not only this government, but also all others will implement, but we will eventually add certain other measures, as you have cited examples and some European countries. That is why we will support this law, as well as everything that will allow our children to live better and better in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85306	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in a name to be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85307	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary with his associates. Here is the amendment and the addition of the Law on Extra charge for children, it is about the fact that through the amendment and the addition of the law the number of children who will be entitled to this measure is really increasing, let's call it the right name, it's a social measure. Similarly, no one has the right to any measure that you are helping, so no matter what amount, to treat this inexplicably, any measure that will allow them to receive in our family and a few hundred kunas is more a measure that deserves attention and we are all aware that it is not enough. The same name of the ministry as proposed by the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. Now, the ministry, in order to manage and propose measures that are appropriate, should have social policy, family policy, demographic policy, and we know that there is no such thing. And we have to be honest about it. So it's not a simple job, that job is very complicated and demanding. And I would like to talk a little bit in this presentation about demographic policies for the simple reason why I don't see any reason why with this measure that's relatively simple, relatively perceptive, which can really bring about effect very quickly in any of our families, or reduce the poverty of the children we're talking about didn't work out in the first six months. So in the first six months of the term of office, it was possible to go with the measure and could already be provided and have some family satisfaction, so the emphasis is on something. And what the secretary of state said, but it was very soon over, so there was no time for replication, it's not about demographics. It's actually a social measure that's trying to hide the real fact, and that's what we had yesterday and the day before yesterday, and we've been listening and listening to lately, that our president is talking about there's a demographic policy, that he's hiding it, that we haven't had a chance to, that there's going to be a joint cabinet session, and then she's going to present at that session what demographic policy it is, and then the prime minister says there's not going to be a cabinet meeting, and then the resolution minister says she didn't get anything from the president. So, the situation is, I don't know what to call her anymore, it's you, there's that one saying, the village's burning, and the grandmother's combing. I get the feeling that when we talk about demographics, we can really talk a lot broadly, we can talk about what demographic policy means, but we don't have a real demographic policy and that's a fact. Demographic policy is a series of measures. These measures, first and foremost, relate to the safety and stability of work, a stable tax policy, and then all those elements that allow the family to be simpler, that there are simpler things and that is, to say the work of kindergartens in two shifts. What I agree with, and when you look at kindergartens which, by the way, are closely tied to local self-government units. These kindergartens have what old hours I don't know, since 6:00 in the morning, at least that's the case in the city of Zagreb, I won't talk about some other units of local self-government because I don't think I know that. They have from 6:00 in the morning to 3:00 in the afternoon, and we know that most people don't work anymore from 6:00 in the morning. That most people work from 8, half nine and that young people work as soon as possible. And working kindergartens in two shifts is something that would be necessary. In the city of Zagreb there are two kindergartens that do so and in general the idea to change it and to be different and to reorganize working time is something that is absolutely at utopia level, but I hope that some things will change too. And that's one of the measures. Likewise, you saw in my predecessors' debate, we always refer to Germany, we refer to Austria. I personally love other topics of Scandinavian modeling, but we must also be fair about it and say the following. Scandinavian models are models for another country where people are, therefore, the idea and education of one Protestant model, and not on one Catholic model at all. There's a base in the family in the Catholic model. You're different. There we must be honest and say, Scandinavian models both in the housing and something else that we have seen are fine, but they cannot be copied and used in the Republic and clearly should be communicated. Croatia is one Catholic country that, as such, must be much more acceptable to some other models, I always look at Mediterranean countries. So, some kind of Italian model. We are much more acceptable to even some model of Austria, and we need to see models that are acceptable to us. You can't rewrite demographic politics. Demographic policy every country must base on the facts it has. Demographic policy is a series of measures, demographic policy is not a measure for a first-born, second-born or third-born child, and then they have units of local self-government that, according to their first-born opportunities, give one amount. I see it as coming to visit someone who gave birth to a child and then someone gives that child a gift, another gives money, a third gives gold, but what is the custom where. That's the measure. It's this one-time measure that you give when a child is born and when relatives, friends and others visit that child, then it's help. However, in terms of demographics and child relations, however, it should be continued, and we all know that as a child grows, that more needs, needs are greater, and that more needs are needed. So we at the GLASs Club and HSU really don't have a comedy or think that we have that in relation to this we say no, it doesn't, it just doesn't. Anything that can help our citizens should be said OK, helps, helps Croatian citizens, is not enough, should be different, but we must clearly say that this is the case. In the same way, we should make it clear that the message that needs to be from this pay phone is both the government and the presidents. Do not announce demographic measures. If you have them, if they're complex, present them. This is one of the topics in which this assembly can be obtained, if it is well communicated, if good things are a word and you can get a consensus. However, in order to discuss them at all, we need to know what it is. You well know that a foreign assembly that makes the opposition may suggest anything, but it has never even been accepted with good faith. But what is the alarm is bright, and that is Croatia should now at this point have a excessive demographic policy that says what will be in the future. You know when we can see the first results of such a policy? In 20 years. The first results of the over-demographic policy can be seen in 20 years. This is all about saving the situation we're in. Therefore, this measure, which will be safe for some of our fellow citizens, is welcome and should be seen as such. She's just a social measure, and that's the social one from the Ministry's name. What's really a question, what were you waiting for? It could have already been. Because if you go into one project and you know what you want at the end, then you start with this one measure and you say here, I'll deal with it, this is now because I don't have time to agree on some whole solution, but then in a year you'll get a complete solution. Let's be honest and say we don't have a whole solution. About how we're gonna talk about how we don't have the demographics to have the president saying one thing, that the government is saying the third thing, that there's no luck. We'll just count the people who leave Croatia and what I learned in the business and in life is next. When one family goes, even changes, goes from one place to another, when children go to school somewhere, when kids make friends somewhere, there's no going back, there's all this new nest, it starts to live and live in some other conditions. So what is important to us, it is important to us as soon as possible the whole series, or package of measures of demographic renewal of Croatia, related to this, that measures are needed for us to become a desirable country and a desirable destination in which someone wants to come to live and work. Let's be honest and say this is a social measure for which, absolutely we can all agree that, and we have to be honest and say that at this moment Croatia does not have too much demographic policy, and that the forces that are in this Assembly and beyond should be focused on that fact. By then we'll have individual measures, someone will say you don't have what you want, so we won't take it. We at the GLAS and HSU club want to be reasonable and we really want to say that every measure that comes is welcome, but it's just a drop in the sea of problems we have. We all like to say that we want a good education for our children, so the debate on education was up to 5 p.m., that we want good conditions for them, and there's no one who wouldn't want to be good for his child, that he has the conditions for schooling, that he has everything that other kids in the world have, but it takes a lot more than it does in this amendment and the addition of the Children's Extra Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85308	Thank you very much. The next is the SDP representative's club on behalf of which a respected representative, Marija Alfirev, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85309	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. So we have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Extra for Children. Here, at the beginning of this presentation on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I will say that we will be abstentioned in the vote under this law. First of all, I want to say that we support really every law and every activity, every measure that goes towards improving the material and other situation, the social situation, the social security, the stability of our citizens, and, above all, our children. In this regard, however, we also support this law and this part of the law that speaks and still extends to certain family groups, allowing certain families to use the extra for children. Similarly, it will enable some other measures that truly fall within one domain of social policy, social work, and the mitigation of some of the social difficulties of the families themselves. Likewise, I will remind you that we have recently discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children proposed by us as the SDP Representatives' Club, and then we have proposed an increase of allowances for all censor groups, which in some ways should have a positive impact on the mitigation of the risk of child poverty. That's when you said you didn't support our bill because you're going with your proposal and that's what we have today. However, we must say that this law, this bill will not have a positive impact on the mitigation of the risk of child poverty, and it seems to me that this was the original intention some more than a year ago, when the results of the research on the risk of child poverty presented by the Economic Institute and when it was seen how alarming and how many children are actually at great risk of poverty. That's why there's a legitimate question about why we've waited so long? Because this law that is now before us is not so important or it's not so big and it's not going in that direction that it couldn't have been passed before, that it couldn't have been here before in the Parliament, so I'm really asking that first question why didn't it happen before? We expected that when you rejected that bill of ours that we would see something, so above all, we expected that this proposal to increase the censorship would also be introduced into this bill, with only the expansion of censorship groups, and that it would bring one more significant change, which, as you like to say, will have a positive impact on and represent some kind of demographic measure which, indeed, is the priority of our society. Unfortunately, that's the other thing, so I said it's good to go, it's good to move some things, but unfortunately this law shows that the ministry does not have the right answers to the growing risks of family-affecting poverty, and especially children in families living from a minimum wage, because there has not been a significant shift. Unfortunately, this law shows insufficient readiness for real reforms because they offer actually partial solutions, and it is dealt with by figures, for example, Which sounds good to the populists, 150,000 children will receive an allowance. Unfortunately, this proposal once again speaks of the lack of a vision and a clear strategy when it is said that this law and circus 200 kuna will have a positive effect on the natal movement and have a positive impact on the social security of children and families. Do you really think this law will ensure social stability? Do you really think this law will force someone to have children? Unfortunately, it won't be like that. And I'd say it's actually a public perception that you're not doing enough, that's what polls say. And that's why it's no wonder, we've mentioned it before and when we talked about our law, that a demographic left you about three months ago, and I just said in the replica, you still don't know what it's going to be or how it's going to be. And because of all of this, it is no wonder that the president loses his patience and calls for responsibility and the minister in the prime minister and repeatedly points out that we are in a state of emergency, and therefore it is no wonder that the president is actually calling the thematic session on demographics. And I can therefore say that this law will be only a minor fire measure, it seems to me without having a significant impact on the social stability and security of the family, without having a more significant impact on the innovative movement and in this sense without having a significant impact on the entire demographic system. Here is even such a law with these few provisions, yet it has also caused negative comments and warnings from different institutions. Here's what I'm going to mention, so through e-consultation. I will mention what you yourself have said that this law proposes raising the level of income censorship as a condition for exercising the right to pay for children from 50% to 70% of the budget base, in order to extend the number of users of allowances for children and thus also the most intelligent supplement that is achieved for the 3rd and 4th child benefit child and also goes to the extension of the age limit until the age of 20. It was precisely one and the other that caused certain observations by the institutions, the relevant institutions. That is why I will list only these key remarks that show how all the consequences of this law are actually not adequately taken into account. First of all, it is necessary, therefore, to take into account the observations raised, when we talk about the birth rate, that every child should also be taken into account because both families with five and more children who do not have many in the Republic of Croatia are placed in an unequal position. Therefore, I will read the actual explanation and the Ombudsman for people with disabilities who say that the current definition found in Article 18 puts families with five or more children whose number is not large, but we believe that families with more children are equal, or even more necessary support in terms of a special supplement. And he says this proposal has been sent to us by the Associations of Persons with Disabilities. Second, the second group of objections refers, in fact, to the proposed age limit of 20 years of life, which represents the deadline until which an allowance may be granted for a child, because it does not comply with the provisions of the Law on Education and Education, primary and secondary schools, and therefore proposes that the same be harmonised and the right to an allowance for children be provided to all regular students and secondary schools in accordance with the law. Equally, the comments are also made to the fact that, given the practice of individual European countries, support in the form of children's allowances is not dependent at all on income, while poorer families, along with children's allowance, as well as the right, which belongs to their children, have an additional family allowance. In the end, we hope that in the implementation of the law, this one, children will not go the way that they are currently disabled, with the latest increase in personal disability. Because instead of increasing the basis for which no new solution is needed, the ministry has decided to increase the percentage and is now in trouble because social care centres will take months and months until new solutions are made. And that's a fact. And it's not the center's fault, nor is it the user's fault. It's still the Ministry's fault. And who actually pulled the thick end? Users of personal disability, because I am having to bring back all documents and prove that they are still people with disabilities, and that's what's gonna have to wait until the promised increase arrives, and I say according to the data coming from the welfare center it can really take until the end of this calendar year. And therefore, you should not be surprised that you are getting negative reviews from the public, and I hope that through this debate and the second reading, you will apply some remarks and adopt a law that can be supported and that will go towards real poverty mitigation, mitigation of the risk of child poverty and thus contribute to social stability and children and families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85310	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the HNS, and time will be shared by the respected representative Marija Puh and colleagues Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85311	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, how many of us are left. Here, today we are discussing the Law on Children's Compensation whose entry into force is scheduled for 1.7.2018. We've heard it a few times, but I would still repeat the provisions that change this law, since the Law has only eight articles. So the first thing that's going to change is that the base of 50% is going to increase to 70%, which in reality means from the current 1663 kuna taken per household member in the family, now this base is going to rise to 2328.20 kuna. Currently, children's allowance is used by nearly 292 thousand children, and this extension will give them the possibility of another 150 thousand new children. I might also agree that it should be more that all children in fact in our Children's Supplement Act are said to be based on the principle of social sensitivity. My view and my one thinking is that we should really think over time about adopting a practice that has a large majority of the EU, which is that all children have the right to a guaranteed child's allowance, not to be a social, social sensitivity principle. We have heard a lot today about child poverty and child poverty is indeed a problem in the Republic of Croatia because it is 7% higher than children's poverty in the EU, or than the EU average. When little statistics are seen and data are seen where child poverty is most pronounced, the data that come are that more is the presence of child poverty in a family where parents have lower levels of education and in families that have fewer jobs. I believe that a child's allowance can not only be a measure of the only measure that goes towards reducing child poverty, but that children's poverty and solving this problem should be approached much wider, much more complex, and seen on several other sides. What I definitely did and when I looked at a little research and the stands that were done on the issue of child poverty itself and as some measures and institutes that would actually help more than just an increase in child's allowance are to provide parents with job opportunities that are not employed. Or, for example, to provide parents who are employed with potentially flexible working hours because, unfortunately, some parents and quit with the fact that they cannot adjust their working hours to their children’s obligations. Another problem that is happening, which is after maternity leave in general there is in many cases a problem with going back to work and what is even more worrying about me, which is gender discrimination in employment. So all these things are things that we should look into and deal with to solve child poverty. One monthly allowance in the form of a child's allowance is not something that can solve this problem and this situation permanently. And besides employment measures, you should definitely consider ensuring adequate housing conditions for extremely poor families and children because we rarely see that really children live in conditions that are not suitable for them, living in conditions where they simply can't afford to carry out their school and children's obligations in the way they should, and also poor children have in some way are socially excluded because, parents don't have the money to pay them to go to kindergarten, so as one of the possible measures in the future could be seen and increased in some way the availability of kindergartens and social services to children affected by greater poverty. We definitely welcome this Act as much as 11 years ago as possible to the HNS club, and nothing has changed as far as the child's allowance is concerned, and as I said today in my earlier debate, each long and every big time begins with the first step. Let this be our first step in improving children's rights and ultimately my wish is that one day we have a child's allowance not as a social measure, but as the right of every child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85312	Thank you very much. He'll continue his colleague Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85313	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates. Namely, colleagues and colleagues taught what counterpart Maria Puh said, we view this as a first step, but a very important step. The fact is that they can part-time, but only partly agree with those colleagues and colleagues who said it wasn't a demographic measure and so it's presented. But why did I answer my word? Mostly for reasons, and we also talked to the Minister herself a few months back and in what way, with which actors to define the foundations of demographic policy. I'll just try to pass on what's more than familiar in short lines right now and I think the actors are more than willing to get involved in everything. First and foremost, we could even discuss some of the demographic policy measures we need to create a basis, financially. Long-term stability, primarily political, after that economically, because this measure, as far as I'm concerned, I'm asking the secretary of state to either deny or correct me, somewhere closer to 1.3 billion kuna, on an annual basis. 1.3 billion kuna. Maybe a little weird, otherwise it's not the goal of measuring those child benefits, but just that's it, that's the money. Furthermore, I'd like to point out, we don't have the exact information, I believe the ministry has, from the local level, cities and municipalities, as far as they stand out within, let's say, the concerns of Article 63. The constitution means that we all have to take care of children together, youth, create cultural, social and other assumptions about, I'll say, normal life and work. I'll start from school as I said in the previous debate on the Law on Education and Education. When the separation was looked at, there was a mention of children starving at school, it was unacceptable and incomprehensible to me. I just mean to everyone, that shouldn't be the subject today. And where's local self-government? So we have differences, too many differences at the level of the entire Republic, we have to equalize both certain approaches and certain criteria, where are the founders? In those environments, unfortunately, if there are such cases, the founders are to blame. It's inadmissible, bad policies. Preschool education, very high quality measures, through rural development measures, investment in kindergartens, because the goal is for every child to attend kindergarten. There would certainly be, I also see one of the measures, together in the synergy of local self-government, state and of course it would be ideal, without participating parents, but if it were still reduced to one, let's say a smaller measure than it is now. Furthermore, equality. You have kindergartens in Zagreb, parents pay 200 kunas somewhere, in less developed neighborhoods, with less average incomes, allocate far more. We want Croatia equal chances, equal opportunities for all. Furthermore, the basis of the state base for the calculation of the additive. I don't know how many times she's changed, but the fact is different. At the level of the Republic of Croatia, the average salary rises and there was, I refer myself purely to this part of the debate that mentions that it should be brought into line with wage growth, I think that this is one topic that should certainly be more qualityd to analyse how realistic and objectively possible this is. It's mathematically feasible, but when you draw a line at the end of the year, or through projection, how much money is it? Furthermore, I am attached to Article 63. The constitution, creating quality assumptions. As a demographic measure, I can partially accept this interpretation, however not entirely, but it is extremely important, but it is extremely important. As far as demographic measures are concerned, here's only a brief one, even though you knew that you were state secretaries with associates and ministers and all of us here, we're aware, you're going to have the support of everyone here, try to find out, do the best possible analysis of the current situation, contact if you're not with local and regional self-government, and get real financial amounts of separation, from birth, from preschool, from primary school, from high school, to see where we are at all. And then we can only think about how and where to go. As far as the financials are concerned. Finance is very well known to be extremely important. Economic trends are now positive. What will it be during some period, I don't want to invoke, but let's remember the crisis in 2009 when budgets fell locally, the state budget and many kindergartens financed by local self-government were on the verge. Can I survive or not? So here I see that certainly one of the demographic measures should absolutely see preschool education, of course in synergy with the restful ministries. We see now whether there is a possibility of developing operational programmes for the next financial perspective? See if there's a possibility of running certain projects? Of course, we must be aware that Europe will not accept everything, it will not pay everything, but there may be something. So we will primarily support this bill because we see it as the beginning of solving burning problems. What is important is political stability, as much as possible in the market economy job stability, it is possible if we have political and economic trends if they are okay, then the wages will be stable, the wages will grow, but I say, what I see and where I see, means synergy, state, local, regional self-government, I think there can be a multiplicitial positive effect through the implementation and operationalisation of certain measures, primarily with the aim of demographic renewal in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85314	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a colleague named Domagoj Hajdukovic came forward. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next debate is that respected colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85315	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. It would not be polite to talk about what the representatives of the opposition clubs said, although it should say something on the subject in view of some of the things that happened 12 or 13 years ago when, from that time on, this censorship is raised from 50% to 70% and this is very important and this measure is a demographic measure and I look forward to this bill. This Ministry of Demography, family and youth and social policy, social affairs, has actually eaten up one of the good changes and additions to the proposal of the Law of Extra charge to children. So to talk about that this isn't a demographic measure, I don't think it's correct. I think this is an extremely good demographic measure and I would say that this is the beginning of demographic measures, activities and programmes that we should implement. I remember very well that we talked about demographics and demographic restoration here, and often times and it was my slogan, regardless of any reform, health, political, educational reform, I have said and spoken, and I will speak, as long as there is no good basis for demographic policy, that demographic policy is the reform of all reforms. So in the situation where we state in this bill a poor demographic image, and it's really bad and according to HZMO where it's visible that in one time period from 2015 to 2017 59 443 fewer children, or 34 229 fewer users, I'm also talking about the most intelligent supplement. I say if and when we speak correctly and honestly about these changes and the additions of the law by increasing the base from 50 to 70%, and when you calculate that a family with four or five children with the most intelligent supplement can have up to 3000 kuna or as much as I have calculated it, somewhere around 3100 kuna, or with 4 children 2650 kuna, I speak with the most promising 500 kuna supplement for a third and fourth child, it is certainly an extremely commendable measure and it certainly helps the home budget of those families with children. So the allowance for children is not only, it has a triple meaning, so it is also the fight against poverty and social inclusion of children and better quality lives for children in families. A member of the opposition club also spoke about this uniform or similar practice in EU countries. You have a situation today and it's a fact and you don't need to run away from, say, in the countries the Germans had this Kindergelt, baby money and... We've talked about such things in time, and the Austrians have something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a child's right to that amount, no matter who it's about, it's not going to the income censorship, but you have that part of the child's allowance actually for those employees where they're given a part of the funds, as a relief for children. So given the situation, the poor demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia, this is actually the beginning of good and quality measures that we're going to have to work on. This is not the only measure, we forgot to talk about it and the incentive funds related to housing loans and everything that is actually being prepared through the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social affairs. So it should be remembered that as early as 1996 a national population policy was adopted in this Croatian House. I believe that through this, together with the Croatian Parliament and what the President and Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic are now saying, we could actually implement a good programme, good measures and good activities related to demographic policy. However, the social climate needs to be changed. So the situation in which we are today from moving young people from the Republic of Croatia is not good, but it also needs to be told the truth that according to the data I saw today and statistics from Germany, 17 800 Croats who moved out of Croatia live to help 400 euros in the Federal Republic of Germany, so they can only be motivated if they have children so that they have this so-called. children's money, that's all, but with 400 euros today it's almost impossible to live in the Republic of Germany. So talking about that and the money that's pumping up, let's say for demographics, and thinking that that's the only thing that we can do financially solve demographics is also wrong. I'll tell you the comparison between Finland and Croatia. Not to say that Germany, Japan, Singapore, Finland and Hungary in our neighborhood have pumped up a lot of money, but they have very bad results. So Finland has a GDP per capita of $45,000, the average salary is 18 000 kuna, and the fertility is 1.41, in Croatia is 1.04. So that part also speaks of not only having financial assistance for demographic restoration, but also having to change the social climate. So she must be born if you want to die. It's not just in children when they're born, so they get that part of the money that's related to the birth of a child, the one where it's about the child's allowance in the mangers, kindergartens and the like. So, there are certain programmes, and I know that there are certain data in the ministry that are being discussed, which are being analysed, which, with a strong political will, could be done in the Republic of Croatia and I hope they will. I welcome these amendments and additions to the Law as the beginning of a good demographic policy in the Republic of Croatia, not by taking up time and other speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85316	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Liposhaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85317	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Babić, at the beginning you spoke of this legislative proposal essentially as a demographic measure or whether it represents a demographic measure or not. I will refer on the way and to all those who mentioned this in the context of whether this amount of child support will encourage someone to decide first, second or third child or not. I think it's a completely wrong approach and what I think is a basic demographic measure is the possibility of employment itself. However, this is not the reason why we absolutely and certainly do not welcome this measure, and I will personally tell you that we have not decided on either of our three because of this and because of the fact that we will have a child's allowance or not, but the fact is that in those periods while we haven't worked, or while only one of us was doing that child's allowance was very useful and welcome help, and here, I would point out only at the end that after 11 years we have an income census from 50% of the budget base at 70% and that we are providing this child support for the new 150 thousand users. I certainly welcome this measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85318	Thank you. Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85319	Well, just for a little while. Mr Lipovšak, I didn't say that finances can get rid of everything, and well that you said that you didn't have children because of some financial relief, but the fact is that you have these amendments and additions to the law, so the family with five children with an extra charge for children and with the most intelligent addition has up to 3000 kuna. With four children, 2200, with three 1400. It's not a small amount, you have to admit. But I agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85320	The next replica is the respected representative of Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85321	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Babic, here, if you don't trust me, believe the president who says, we need a strategy, not partial measures. Unfortunately, we've seen only partial measures from this government when it comes to demographic policy because we can't just talk about children's allowances and kindergartens, it's much more complicated. And related to her initiative to hold a thematic session together with the government, for which she has not yet received an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85322	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85323	I trust you and trust the president. So I have no doubt about what she said, the way she said it. But you know that through the Ministry of Demography, what you can't see is actually what you're working on, to get to a certain extent and the activities of the programme, it takes a certain time and you need to agree on certain views, and it needs to be passed by both the ministries and the government and the working group. That's quite clear to you. So when I was talking, I was talking about one common demographic policy. Remember, we've been bringing up a strategy of national and homeland security, that's also mentioned and talked about, and now it's just a matter of putting out a certain programme, activities and measures, and I think that can be done with very good and positive things that will result. Besides, the first three months of 2018 are positive, you won't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85324	Thank you. The next individual debate should be counterparts Romana Jerkovic. She's gone, she's losing her right to debate, so the individual debate is going to be the most respected representatives of Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So it's true what the controversy might be about. We're talking about child support today, but it's not the only demographic measure. You may have forgotten that the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a council for demographic revitalisation immediately after it was founded by the Ministry of Demography and, therefore, it is quite evident at the moment when a council for demographic revitalisation was established that it would not be in the jurisdiction of this Ministry alone. The head of the council is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia by sending a clear message of how much this government cares about solving a problem. After all, it was also in the HDZ programme. The Council also includes the Minister of Health and Finance and Minister of Labour and Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Science and Minister of Construction, so the most responsible people, almost the entire government. It has thus been sent a message that this is not a process that will be resolved by one man or one ministry and that demographics are not just a matter for this Ministry. The overall policies that the government brings and which will implement continuously I believe will continue the process we want, which is that we have more children, that we have more young people who remain in the Republic of Croatia. The institutional memory of colleagues he doesn't have, and they probably have better things to do because at 5:00 a.m., they have a Bureau session, must be a mess. Those who advocate demographics so much, there's no one to talk about them. So, in this same Parliament, there are colleagues who were here six to seven years ago, we have warned continuously about this problem, but nothing has been solved. When we look back at the work of this government from the beginning, then I will remind you that the government has put the demographic issue as a priority aware of the great problem and that for the first time within the Ministry is a set-up of demographics management. I'll also remind you of the decisions made to stop long-term negative demographic trends. First of all, financial support for parents increased significantly, the amount of maternity and parental benefits increased significantly, the unemployed births increased the fee to 2328 kuna from 1663, the maximum amount of parental compensation to employed parents during the other 6 months from 2660 to 4000 kuna. Some might say too little, but this is something. We're talking about financial indicators here, but we've already heard not everything about financial assistance, but given what we want to change as well, and these are quite low wages in the Republic, I think the financial moment is always important to parents. The amount of deductions for each of the following children, for example the parent of two children by 2017 did not pay taxes, if he had paid up to 5680, and from 1 January I will remind you, that amount increased to 8000 kuna net salary. The law on subsidising residential loans therefore facilitates the acquisition of property, property for persons under 45 years of age and I believe that you can already see that we are not only here in the portfolio of demographics, that we are here in the portfolio of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and that the resolutions that share the same common goal are already intertwined. So this is an important help for young families to resolve the housing issue. Since 1 July, therefore, the amount of income census of 150 000 children will be more users, for example, in May there were 117 741 users or 227 and some thousands of children. A call has also been made, i.e. co-finance the construction and adaptation of existing kindergartens in preparation for the introduction of two-way kindergarten work. 67 and a half million kuna from the European Social Fund, so that's something young mothers or parents warned about. So if you have a job, your kindergarten works in one shift, you can't leave a child and we're going to change that, and I think this is great what's going on and we expect the Ministry to let us know who signed up and how these measures are going. In addition to demographic measures in a narrow sense, by systematically improving economic opportunities and increasing employment, we create a more favourable situation for young people. When I say by improving economic opportunities, do not forget that this government has made more money for the first time than spent, that the country is in surplus and all we want is to invest in higher wages, in the opening of new jobs, for example, at this time or an hour ago Minister Pavić presented new employment measures, so something that will also help our young people. Demography has not been a problem since yesterday, remember, it has been warned of this many years before, the emigration of young people from Croatia, and unfortunately it is not a problem since yesterday. But what the Government should do with us in the Croatian Parliament, it is to encourage in all ways, legal or legal frameworks, that people stay in Croatia or if young school, if they leave, to acquire some new knowledge outside the Republic of Croatia, to return with this acquired experience and be added value to our community. The Prime Minister also announced a budget rebalance in July, and it is in that budget rebalancing that the Ministry of Demography will receive even more money, thus pointing to a clear government policy to address the problem of demographicism as systematically as possible. I will conclude, this is just one stone in the mosaic that has to round up the picture that by the end of the term will be what the HDZ programme was, which is that Croatia improves its demographic image and that Croatia remains for those who will be in it and live happily in it, and those who want only to give criticism, I invite them all who want to participate and everyone who wants to make their contribution are welcome. I think the ministry will also be glad to get positive, concrete measures, examples, so let's be open to all, let's not just politically discuss some of the measures.../ The vice president shut me down, I don't know why You shut me out for a second. [[No, I didn't.]] So I'll be done. My colleagues and colleagues, we are aware of the problems, we all have to solve it together, and then I think that even the demographic picture in the Republic will be better, have bigger salaries for young people, have more employees and have better jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85326	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85327	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, so here, it is evident from your debate that I have the feeling that you're still in that old job, but yet you've gone to the other side of Mark's square. You've explained and defended everything as a spokeswoman of all successes, what you consider to be a success of the government. And you mentioned who's in the Council for Demographic Reitalization. So these are all truly esteemed esteemed names. So, isn't it disturbing to you, so I'm going to repeat this question to you about the fact that the president said that it was only partial measures, that there was no clear strategy and that he was calling the government for a joint session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85328	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85329	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So I think it was quite evident from what I was saying to the government of the Republic of Croatia. So I wouldn't say that these are the important people that I've numbered, or people who are headed by these ministries, those are the people who took responsibility for the country's leadership. And in their best possible way, with all their expertise that owns it and does it. Once again, all those who have something to contribute to change the demographic picture of Croatia in any segment are welcome. Only criticism without any system and no added value is never good. And we in this house aren't just here to criticize each other, we're here to help each other. That's important, I don't know where you come from, but I'll meet you now, and I'll be happy to talk to you, but that's important for both my Međimurje and for Zagorje and for Dalmatia, for any part of Croatia. We all have to pursue the same goal, I believe you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85330	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude. If there's anything he wants... the president of the proposal, State Secretary Margareta Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85331	Thank you very much. I would like to thank everyone very briefly who participated in this debate. In any case, I think it is extremely important that we also talked today about this Law, amendments and additions to the Children's Compensation Act. We will also agree through this debate, surely we agree that the problem of demographic, negative demographic trends has not occurred since yesterday, that many years have accumulated, but the difference from this government and the former governments is that it has been actively since the very constitution of the government and the ministry which in its part received and the responsibility to care for demographics established the demographic management has started with a series of measures and actions and activities to change these negative trends, in order to improve the demographic image in the Republic of Croatia with our activities, measures and policies, and in any case help to ensure that even through this Law which has been a child's allowance so far, there has been only one social giving in the direction of it to be both a family and a demographic measure. Finally, I would point out that in the part where we discussed that it was one of the activities and representatives and MPs and myself personally, we pointed out everything we had since the time of the government's constitution, which is also the decommissioning of the other 6 months of maternity leave, so the increase in maternity leave by 6 to 12 months for the parents who use it. I would also point out here the measures related to improving the standards of kindergartens in the infrastructure part of the 75 million kuna domestic assets, from the European Social Fund 300 million kuna. One of the MPs asked for a report, and here's a big interest in both competitions. More than 270 projects have been reported for infrastructure, and so far we have received more than 40 applications for the extension and replacement work of kindergartens, and other measures that we are sure will contribute to the demographic restoration of the country, and as we could hear, it is not the work of our Ministry but of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which through its board for demographic revitalisation, chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is concerned that in all segments, we are actively involved in the demographic restoration and the reduction of negative trends. There's so much in this first reading. I'm sure everything you've debated today, what the MPs discussed, and the MPs will take into account in the second reading during the debate and propose a final proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85332	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. There will be one point, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, the second reading of P.Z. No. 259, and in one hour there will be a reception for the Day of the Croatian Parliament. Have a nice evening. SESSION Interrupted at 18.11 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-29-0.u85333	The first is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, First Reading, P.Z. number 337. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extra for Children is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 90 for, 38 abstentions, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
