ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101743	Now we're going to stop for a moment to discuss taking a stand on behalf of the club. So the first one, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, will be a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101744	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The court found that media play a particularly important role in democratic society and highlighted a high degree of protection that provides freedom of expression. Judges can personally be criticised within the limits allowed and when they act in their official capacity, they can be subject to wider criticism from criticism that can be exposed to ordinary citizens. The Court found that the article in question concerned issues of public interest and although it contained serious criticism, exaggeration and sharp metaphors, the Court did not consider the article offensive. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you thought this was a decision by one of the Croatian courts in case any of the Croatian judges asked them for compensation for the fact that it was written in the newspaper, then you are mistakenly wrong. Unfortunately, this is part of a report submitted by the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights to the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also to all Croatian citizens in order to warn us of a recent decision in the case of a national list against the Republic of Croatia where the Republic of Croatia has been ordered to pay the damages in the amount of 5,000 euros because a judge has been charged with damages against that list. And as you know, not only is this judge not the only one but the analysis has shown that the number of cases in which judges sue the media in the Republic of Croatia is growing and that they are generally given more compensation than those in such similar media disputes are being judged by other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As we can see, this position of the European Court I have just read on Croatian judges does not affect. And now we have a situation that we can read about in the media today that a Split judge has sought and received damages because a politician has called a political body, and we want to acknowledge or not the State Judiciary Council is the political body of corruption. So the judge, a member of the State Judiciary Council, was compensated for speaking about the State Judiciary Council as a whole. Which means that, for example, if each of us were to call the Croatian Parliament a poor, corrupt one, that it does not represent the valid interests of the citizens, it would be possible to sue the person and receive compensation for the damages. What can I tell you? It's totally unacceptable. The Republic of Croatia is a democratic state, one of the most important features of every democratic state is freedom of speech. Freedom of speech and freedom of the media must be guarded. We must look after her and we must cherish her if we want our society to remain democratic. However, a society in which judges themselves in this way pay damages cannot be democratic. Such practice for the Republic of Croatia is not good, such practice for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is not good, and the worst practice as we have seen from the practice of the European Court of Human Rights costs the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is clear to me that someone will object to me in this step by saying about the practice of the courts in certain cases, I violate the trio of the authorities. But it's not like that. The government's triplet can't stop me from talking here in HS about what I think is bad. And this practice, I will repeat, where Croatian judges are given higher compensation for the damages in media disputes than anyone else, is totally unacceptable. And if such a practice, despite the fact that the Republic of Croatia pays compensation for damages in disputes before the European Court of Human Rights, will not change. Then it is up to our respected colleagues and colleagues in HS and the Croatian government to change this practice by amending the law. Because what's happening is just not good. And the irony of the team is that on the one hand, the freedom of speech that protects you in a way that those who use hate speech where they attack others on racial, religious or any other basis are protected, that some greetings that are in comparative practice in other European countries such as Austria or Germany are banned in the Republic of Germany, are tolerated and said to be about freedom of speech, while at the same time where freedom of speech should be protected, and that is when we talk about a public servant that does not do his job well because it is our legitimate right, it violates a completely generous one. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so much for now. And if this practice does not change, even after the recent decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, we will send a bill of law from the SDP's representative's club that should amend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101745	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to work. And as always, on the first day of the week, we have our first free debate on clubs. Four clubs reported for now. The first is SDP and dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101746	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. Here, we have called for this break to warn of something that has never been seen in the Republic of Croatia, which is that, instead of the ruling HDZ party dealing with how people are not leaving Croatia, how to create new jobs, how to raise net wages, they are at this point, according to the information that I have in every way helping the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic to politically rip up in the City Assembly and to get rid of them as the president of the City Assembly, who has Andrija Mikulić. So this political trade symbiosis that is in part and in the Croatian Parliament has also moved to the City Assembly. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing for colleagues and colleagues how HDZ allows this kind of trade because they have nothing to do with it, they don't get dirty, they dirty their hands on the mayor of Zagreb, Milan Bandic, and in this way they trade, buy a policy of support in the City Assembly of Zagreb. We think it is absolutely necessary for the hygiene of our society, the political space to show citizens why and how their views should be represented, that this is not changed, that it is not public money and the only interest because, as counterpart Bačić said in the book Martine Dalić, that everything is allowed in politics, that not everything is not allowed, that public money cannot be bought in the City of Zagreb and thus play the will of the citizens of Zagreb. I am very clear here that for the first time in a long time it is possible to show in the city of Zagreb that such a policy is no longer passing, that SDP is a firm and strong dam for this type of policy and will not allow this to be traded in the future in the voices of the citizens of Zagreb. And that we will fight in every possible way against HDZ and Bandic's mayor that the citizens' money does not buy their support. It is shameless and instead of HDZ saying we don't need that kind of support, they pray to God, they ask God that Bandic manages to buy 3 MPs in the City Assembly to ensure the majority. And on the other hand, I think that this is a problem that exceeds the city of Zagreb, this is what we have to talk about here, we will talk about it constantly, we will warn about it because there are no problems in the city of Zagreb, because there is no problem in the city of Zagreb, because there is no waste, there is an illegal dump growing in Zagreb, because there is a collapse in traffic in the city of Zagreb, because there is not one investment project in the last 5, 6, 7 years. More than 10 billion euros were to be invested in the city of Zagreb in the last 10 years in Zagreb, is that what the Zagrebans see? Of course they can't see and there's got to be a hygienic political front towards HDZ and the Bandic, and they need to be told that I can't do it anymore. You can't pay taxpayers' money, it's not FIMI MEDIA anymore, it's not this '90s when it was stolen through the privatisation process, it's not this Croatia where you can do whatever you want. You should finally say no, it is, I said the political trade symbiosis of HDZ and Bandic that works I bring peace to you at national level by buying political tradesmen in the Croatian Parliament and you let me do whatever I want in the city of Zagreb. So because Bandic doesn't even want to go to the government, HDZ promised to keep him in the town of Zagreb, it is Bandic's fee for the political trade he works in the Croatian Parliament. Plenkovic promised Milan Bandic that he would be kept in the city of Zagreb and that is his fee. And the duty of all of us, all of us in politics, especially us who come from the city of Zagreb, is to resist it. To say no, the money of Zagreb is no longer available to buy political support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101747	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a half hour ago, we declared the choice of an independent body, but I see that the largest party in the House has a problem with the other independent body. So, from one flight to Helsinki on a government plane and asking one media about the purpose and justification of using a state aircraft for possible party purposes, we have come to the conclusion that the entire work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and the overall legislation concerning conflict of interest has begun to be challenged. It is certainly something that can ring the alarm because it shows one tendency that independent bodies are only good when they are dependent on rulings and that is not exactly the point of the existence of independent bodies. We will be reminded that in the election of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, no opposition MP participated in the second round of voting on the President of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, she was formally elected by a secret vote involving 78 MPs and she received 78 votes. So the vote was nominally secret and it was actually a public statement because all those who voted for the chairman of the commission were those who joined the vote and those who were ruling. And now, after a few months, it turns out that the rulings are not happy with their election as chairman of the commission. Why? Because she decided to enforce the laws. Well, you could have said in the debate that the purpose of the commission was not to enforce the law. Maybe people wouldn't even answer, so if I tried to describe it a little plasticly, you'd want Natasha Novakovic to only remember by her initials or to remain N.N. And she doesn't want it. Therefore, if the largest party in the Parliament is from whose ranks both the Prime Minister and other senior state officials have received a request from the Commission to provide some information, it is normal to supply those data, to allow the Commission to decide whether to initiate the procedure or not, and if they are not satisfied, to appeal to the Court. Well, in a few cases, the court has changed that decision and in most cases it hasn't. This whole story about the Commission's conflict of interest can be seen as an attempt to defend in a concrete procedure by HDZ, but I am afraid that there are elements of political pressure on the Commission, either by trying to create public perception that they are doing badly, although the number of decisions that the court has changed is minor, that it is trying to get public support for changes to the law that we know in the beginning will not win because the standard of responsibility of politicians in Croatia should never be reduced unless we as a state are going in a completely wrong direction which is not impossible, but then we will know that this is how we condemn all the attacks and attempts to pressure the Committee on the conflict of interest which concerns the implementation of the Law of conflict of interest as it has been brought forth back in 2011, with some minor changes that were followed. Progress is seen among other things in what we have at least managed to choose a commission in 2018. When HDZ last had a majority, in 2011, we failed to choose a commission. The Croatian Parliament, therefore, traditionally praised the work of the Commission for deciding on a conflict of interest, accepted almost unanimously their reports. It was not enough for Dalia Oreshkovic to remain president of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest but it seems that no one implementing the law would be good for HDZ to remain at the head of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. Therefore, I am convinced that the flight to Helsinki will not fly Mrs. Novakovic and I am convinced that she and the other members of the commission will not allow their work to be marked by the president's initials to remain N.N., these are people of names, last name and integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101749	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101750	7. Debate SDP's Club of Representatives, esteemed colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101751	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Kola Lovrinovic raised a topic that I want to talk about this morning, as the final phase of the government's calming or attempt to calm down the government and the union in public services with an uncertain outcome takes place at the moment. At least at this point I don't know if that outcome is known. What should also be said is closely related to today's topic, which is the budget for next year. The key strategic goal this government has set for itself is to stop our people from moving out of Croatia. This exodus, literally an exodus in the last few years, can only be prevented in a way that ensures a better life in Croatia. And better life means something that people will feel in their pocket, so more pay, higher income, and even bigger pensions, that, bigger pensions, pensioners don't go as far as young people go, but it's important to provide everyone with an adequate standard because it's just what people deserve. Unfortunately, what the government has proposed in its tax laws does not allow wages to grow in Croatia except for those 15 thousand of the best in the country. So those who have a salary of 18 thousand kunas and more than that. Therefore, we can't, here's who knows which way we want to say it here we can't agree because the money to increase the salaries of teachers, teachers, health professionals, social workers has, and this proves the government by spending taxpayers' money, I would say irrational spending or at least spending in a way where it won't produce appropriate effects. I won't agree, here I don't want to paralyze with my colleague Lovrinović who's not here, but I won't agree with his way of explaining where that money is because for 5 billion kuna, it takes you at least 5 years because it can't be saved today, but when the debt is refinanced, that means when the debt is due. And the debt, half the debt can only be made in the next five, six years, and it would take us so long to wait for people to get rid of that money and give it to them for a bigger budget salary. But we can find that money, we can, we've said it here a few times, first of all, through tax discharges that goes beyond professors, teachers, nurses, and that means increasing personal deductions from 3,000 to 5,000 kuna. It's cca. Two billion kunas, that's the same money that the government is about to disintegrate, I'd say, when it reduces the general VAT rate from 25 to 24%, because that's really not what our citizens are going to feel. Let's be sure that traders won't lower the prices for those 1% points and there won't be any product costing, which would mean such a profit to the citizens. So it's just not gonna happen. These 2 billion kunas need to be focused on tax reliefs that I am talking about and on the increase, a genuine increase in employees' salaries. People with six to seven thousand kunas that teachers and teachers are receiving today, I don't know nurses, these people would feel it in an increase in salary between 5% and 6%. That's not small, that's exactly what we're negotiating right now. Plus what I've also been saying about this speaker is that it increases the base between 3 and now the government agrees to 4%, so a total of 9 to 10% increase in salary for these people. That's a very real suggestion. And when they ask me where those two billion will lose units of local self-government. I'll do it again, he won't lose. If income tax is left to them at 17%, it will be compensated and the balancing fund for local self-government units can be filled from this 15% VAT point. So it's a very consistent and rounded bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101752	Now we will move to a position on behalf of the clubs, however, let me say before then, we will have a united debate on five points, as we agreed this morning, and then we will add two more points and discuss two more points that were scheduled for this week, and this is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery of credit institutions of investment companies, first reading of the PZ No. 494, and Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office, again first reading of PZ No. 499. So it's going to be our work sequence today. And as I said, we will now prevent the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club, so the first on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday during the debate on the budget and otherwise a lot of public and in this House is being pollemized a lot about the state of our health system. And that's, everybody agrees, not so great. What exactly do we want from our health care? We want to give all our citizens who pay health contributions the fastest, best quality health care possible. However, this differs radically from what colleagues and colleagues unfortunately have. Unfortunately for me, due to my health problems, I recently had to be the beneficiary of this health care system of ours, and I can tell you that what our healthcare system is saving is dedicated people who work in it. Doctors and nurses who, with their enthusiasm, keep the system together. But despite their enthusiasm, despite the fact that they are missing them, but despite their enthusiasm for colleagues and colleagues, they cannot work without consumer material in medicine and cannot work without basic infrastructure. And that's what's happening in our health system right now. I was lying in a hospital room where the window was broken and patched with a tape of tape. Then you can imagine what that standard is. But what I want to talk about today is something else, like I said, these dedicated people can't work without certain resources, and we're sorting out in KBC Osijek is two months without an allergy analysis agent. We had this opportunity to read today in the media and quote what one patient said about this medium, he says, quote: "They took my sample from me a month ago half a day ago, and last week I was told that the findings had not yet been made because they had no reagent and that such a state has been going on since mid-September." Since mid - September, he continues: “I must admit that this information has shocked me, given that it is not some overpriced medical device, but ordinary consumer material. Now I'm in a situation like probably hundreds of other patients, that we have to wait for months to find out without which taps in place because we can't do further tests and start therapy. It has to be instructed, and so does all the other instructions, she left the collection hospital, for basic and supplementary health insurance, and we're still waiting." Is that the kind of health care system we want? And what else is being ordered by the ruling budget, you have 3602-investments in health infrastructure. Last year, last year's realisation is 694 million kuna, you know what it's like this year? 537, almost 150 million less. And it doesn't stop there, for next year the projection of 255 million kuna is even smaller, and for 2020 and 2021, respectively. 218 million kuna. So less and less. And what kind of situation are we gonna get ourselves into? Today doctors can't examine either nurses because they don't have gloves, or because they don't have syringes, or because they don't have needles? What is this message that rulings send, especially to the east of Slavonia, which is already faced with emigration, with many economic problems, what is this message? So drop dead cattle. Poor thing and God, you're heavy. Now, that's the real face of the Slavonia project. It is the true face of relations between the rulings towards the east of Croatia, and I am afraid of the health system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101754	The next club is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues a few days ago, I warned about the situation at the Osijek Clinical Hospital Center where there has been no allergic reaction for the past two months. It is consumption material, therefore, not expensive equipment used in daily diagnostic tests and for which reason, because of this lack of patients, users of healthcare system services in KBC Osijek have to wait for their findings for months and therefore cannot do other tests or medical procedures until this result is obtained. So, I repeat, it's about expendable goods. After that I got a whole series of reactions, which patients, which KBC employees of course, want them to remain anonymous, they wanted it, but I want to share with you and with the public only some of their reactions. Here's to quote, do you think that's all we're missing? It's just a needle versus a locomotive. We don't have clean laundry in the department, pillows are just like paper A4 formats from the amount of washing and using, we have torn sheets. When we're bleeding, we need to get under the mattress so we can't see it because we don't have clean sheets. We turn the helmets on the other side that's clean so you don't see the one that's dirty. Warm meals that do not consume patients cannot be consumed by other patients or can be consumed by us, but must be returned to the kitchen where they throw themselves. If an employee, therefore, is in the department, an inspection comes and he or she consumes a meal such as yogurt, pastry and the like must even adjust the bill to buy or prove where they got that meal. We don't have the right size diapers for the right patients, many times diapers on some patients serve as literally thongs, not diapers. There's a lot more to it, I could read to you by tomorrow. I think this is devastating both for the dignity of the employees of the system and for the users of the system. For nurses, brothers, doctors who have to face these challenges every day, who have to improvise and ultimately with patients who pay contributions, here's what the gentleman said from that article that spoke about Reagans for allergy, so his instructions went straight to HZZO and he didn't get the favor. So, I once again appeal to the Government the funds are reduced for investment in the purchase of equipment in the medical system at least in this budget, please do not refer to this system, especially to the east of Croatia where the Clinical Hospital is the largest in that part of Croatia, although they face such challenges I dare not even assume what is wrong with the county hospitals and what is with the smaller hospital centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101756	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. Before voting on the debated points, as every time at the beginning of the week, we have the position of Club Representatives. So far, six clubs have signed up. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101757	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I apologize for not being able to sit by, stand by the pay phone, and this is what I want to point out today, International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the fact that in this House all MPs are not equal, that they do not have the same right to stand by a pay phone and exhibit on behalf of the Club. That a lawyer can't come and file a report for that same pay phone. And that's a fact. If we in this highest House in Croatia have not guaranteed equal status of all persons, persons without disabilities, persons with disabilities, what can we expect from any other citizen, what can we expect? Since the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we have to ask ourselves how much we've done. Have we done all we can to ensure that people with disabilities have equal opportunities? In order for a person with disabilities to understand how he is to another person, we need to get into the shoes of that person, only so we can know how he is to another person. Get into the shoes of another person, persons with disabilities, then we would know what it means, which means when you can't get from Zagreb to Zadar, to Sibenik, you can get on a bus. Let us bear in mind that no person in a wheelchair at this time can sit on a regular line and travel through Croatia. Not in any direction. Not in one direction. Note that at this point, education is still not available for all people with disabilities. Let us bear in mind that everything that the Convention says is not done, and the question of people with disabilities is not a party issue, it's a question of all of us, it's a super-party issue. Let me read a few lines of coworker that's in those shoes. It is one of the 80 million Europeans, Europeans, people with disabilities. One of over half a million citizens of the Republic of Croatia, also a disabled person. It is one of the ones that is the constitutional category, which violates every day the rights at all levels. She is one of those who was not able to choose education according to her will, but where she was physically accessible. She's one of the ones who, because of the stairs at her school, had to go to the House, violently separated from her family. It is one of those who does not have an adequate level of maintenance rehabilitation, health care, an example orthopedic aid. She's one of those who doesn't have money in the budget for expensive drugs, even though it's a matter of life and death. She's one of those who needs 24-hour help, and she's gone. She is one of those who, if she hadn't had a little bit more luck in life, lived on social benefits or personal disability. She is one of those who, if she had a child with developmental difficulties, was in a position to fight against an unsolicited system, to fight for early diagnostics, for her child, for an appropriate proper rehabilitation, for a place in kindergarten, for enrollment in school according to an appropriate program, for an assistant in teaching, for sign language, for books in Brajica, for the naked survival everywhere until humiliation, to humanitarian actions destroying her dignity and dignity of her child. She's one of those who belongs to the country's ugly educational statistics. She's Vesna Škulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101758	Thank you. Thank you. I thank my colleague, Alfirev. I will repeat what I said and for the last time, while respecting your position, that in this House's assembly we have provided a translation for deaf persons and persons with hearing damage to sign language. My colleague Maras, please, I've allowed Mrs. Alfirev to speak from a place that is not normally intended for that speech, so I'm asking you to behave in accordance with the rules here. And the other thing is, I said the last time that my colleague Lukacic has already launched the initiative, that this question, which you're talking about, is being dealt with in an adequate way, and we agree. So I welcome your initiative, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101759	Mr. Gordan Maras will be the position of the SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to see what a problem can be brought here today, and I am pleased that the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System are here because, in fact, their ministry is touching this problem which is almost so amazing today in 2018, and shows essentially how the state refers to its assets and how the state treats employees in companies that are owned by it. There is a company in Zagreb called RIZ transmitters d.d. which works almost in the city centre in the city district of Maksimir, which is known for its past period, over the past 10, 20 years, before and more has been very affirmed about the delivery, the production of transmitters, has a lot of patents, the company has worked relatively well, unfortunately, for the past few years and it is almost amazing that the company that is existent on valuable assets that has knowledge, which has experience, which has very hardworking and hardworking people, cannot function and does not work, almost certainly. At this point, 150 employees in that company, unfortunately, have not received their salaries for 3 months. People come to work every day, work and don't get paid for three months. It is also a matter of many things that we hear from both workers and people who are familiar with the situation in this company, and it is worrying that they are allegedly even violating workers' rights or that people in one part have not received any pay lists in order not to be able to get their money. So that was one period and there are several applications on this issue and the labour inspectorate. So what's the most recent in that whole story. Except that people are clearly exploited, they don't get money, what their existence is at risk. So 150 families, colleagues and colleagues, of which they live, do not receive salaries, livers or manage in various ways and cannot reach their own personal incomes, the company does not work. But one of the most recent facts is that it's a company owned by the Republic of Croatia. So the Republic of Croatia, Resore Minister Darko Horvat, Minister of State Property Goran Maric, Prime Minister Plenkovic, is not concerned at all, nor cares about their assets and employees in the company. 150 people, a ten-million-euro company, because it's property, I said, in the city center, but not A, not B, not from the government, not from the Ministry, not from the Secretary of Resort, not from the Minister of State Property. It is then asked a logical question, so how can workers' rights be respected in this country at all, how can private owners behave if the state in its company does not pay salaries unless the state pays its employees a fair salary, how does the state expect all the others in the Republic of Croatia to do so? And then the question arises because there are so many people in the Republic of Croatia who work, and they don't receive salaries, which is why labour inspectors obviously don't respond to numerous applications related to these work gaps, and which is why, in general, the owner allows it to be in the company that is directly owned by it. The only possible explanation is put in place. It may be that someone consciously wants to destroy a company and a valuable property in the city center to sell the Buddha for what. Unfortunately, it would not be the first case in the Republic of Croatia if the state had treated its assets during HDZ. Destroy the company, tear people apart, 100 people have been out of that company for the last year because the conditions are what they are. Get rid of the people and then give it to somebody. And here I am looking, under quotes gifts, and most often so. And here I'm looking for answers from the relevant services to give us information on why people work, don't get paid, and that's why the company is deliberately destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101761	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101762	The SDP advocates' club also asked for the possibility of taking a stand, according to MP Arsen Bauk on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101763	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate on the laws concerning agriculture has been going on for 3 and a half hours now with this pause for the club's position and indeed shows that yesterday's intervention is a bit unusual but not for the first time the opposition's advocates of trying to speed up the debate on the law, it is shown that it was justified because they would certainly not have such a comprehensive, interesting and contentious debate on the important law but also shows that there are mechanisms and ways in which the parliamentary minority can also oppose the self-will of the parliamentary majority. It happens extremely, it only happens in cases where we think it's justified and it's not so often to be honest, it happened. We had no clear motive for why he wanted to step down from the announced agenda schedule, which is otherwise a positive change since Mr. Jandrokovic came to the president of the Parliament. The slightly negative change is that we are now starting to overuse this statement on amendments past the vote, and then we are going to do it again in the evening, but it has been announced, and we are going to do it normally, we are calling for the usual practice to return to the budget and those laws where the smaller number of amendments do it on Fridays when the vote remains, and this is always one mechanism that the parliamentary majority can use to not force their MPs to sit for ten hours and reject our amendments. Therefore, as we announced, today's debate was content, good and showed justification for yesterday's action. As for the conduct of the Rules of Procedure and other things that are part of the usual parliamentary outwitting, it will be assessed by the citizens in the elections, we can agree on both. By then, the presidents will be making warnings when they feel they should and those who have been warned will benefit from what is available to them to oppose, either loudly or otherwise. Therefore, nothing that is too unusual for drama to be done about and that should now, especially from the biggest party, indicate it as something extraordinary that has happened. So, what's going to happen is that this week we're going to do as we're scheduled, so next week we're going to have a schedule again, we're going to adapt to it, and we can always try to make a deal with all the clubs or someone we think we should, for some of the higher interests, objective reasons or political decisions to adjust something can be arranged. All that matters is that it's said in time that everyone can prepare themselves, and if that's the case, there won't be any problems. I also hope that the practice of stricter sanctioning MPs will be a little less present in the future, because in the end, sometimes you only give more attention to some than you would, objectively, by your knowledge, engagement and work, deserve when you make a sacrifice, some presidents are better at it and almost never when they preside over there are no incidents and some others have less of that tolerance coefficient, and then there are a few major incidents but it is up to you in the ruling majority to talk a little bit. Therefore, I am pleased that the meeting of the Croatian Parliament will take place on schedule announced at the beginning of this week, and I am pleased to see that there is a great interest in discussing the Law on Agriculture and other laws on the agenda today. And of course we're waiting for these amendments for the pension reform to end the same thing. So, without any major drama, let's just calm down, yesterday might have been a little bit of a south, so it affected but there's no one, as far as we're concerned, there's no problem, whatever you put on the schedule next week, if you stick to it, there won't be any of this kind of intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101764	Mr. Šipić, if you have something to comment on, ask for the possibility of a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101765	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue with our session, it is Monday, the first day of the week, and we are going to discuss the position of representatives' clubs, the first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and dear colleague Davor Bernardić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101766	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today on the International Human Rights Day, it is an opportunity when a conference on migrants takes place in Marrakesh to discuss the event, but also to talk about the Marrakech Agreement, which bears the name, the Global Compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. It should be said that it is not a classic international contract because it is not signed or ratified. It is actually a catalogue of measures as examples of good practice relating to legal migration. The UN Member States may choose from them whether they wish to integrate them into their dealings with it and, if they so wish, which of them and in what form are most acceptable to them. Therefore, it represents an optional framework for co-operation, for each country in terms of purely legal migration. It's time to talk about as much as anyone in this room didn't like it. Who doesn't answer that? It does not correspond to the parliamentary majority headed by HDZ because they do not wish to confront radically conservative citizens from whom they had previously received votes and who have a completely different opinion and views on the agreement from this government. This is about the same question as it was when it came to the Istanbul Convention or when the People's referendum was on the agenda or when the Household Law was being passed. And I believe that this cowardly relationship of the HDZ will also have when the Parliament will also discuss the Law on abortion. Whenever there are topics on the agenda that they cannot agree on ideologically, these same topics are pushed under the carpet and the debate is hidden from the eyes of the public. My question to you gentlemen, what are you afraid of? I think the Parliament should, but it's still coming, to discuss such an important global agreement. In such a way, by avoiding the debate, some additionally bring unrest into public space by scaring citizens with migrants and trying to collect cheap political points on this topic while the truth is something else entirely. What is the situation of Croatia today? To be clear, these same migrants don't want to stay in Croatia, I guess when they find out what the situation is in Croatia, they run away with their heads, no matter what the three buses of our citizens who leave our country daily and who this incompetent HDZ government is literally pushing out. If our citizens do not want to stay in Croatia, let us not expect to remain migrants in Croatia. They simply want through Croatia to come into a better world for them and we have to enable them, by law and humane. As we can see, this government doesn't manage to do it legally or humanly, and that's not funny, Mr. Djakic. We are witnessing that we have become a kind of refugee corzo that they are going through without any control, wandering around Croatia and looking for a way towards richer EU countries. The migrant crisis has been going on for months only to keep quiet because this government is unable to resolve it and it is another one in a series of problems that are deliberately being pushed under the carpet in Croatia. If you do not know how to do this, I advise you to ask our former Minister Ranko Ostojić who I am proud of how he solved this situation, by law, effectively but above all, humanely. Today on International Human Rights Day, it is an opportunity to talk about discrimination and what Croatian citizens feel. And the majority of Croatian citizens feel that they have the same nose before the law and that they cannot freely express their opinions and their views. And while in France citizens are rebelling and protesting for a better standard of living, in the 21st century, citizens unfortunately have to fight to be equal in front of the law. The last example of inequality before the law is the law you voted last Friday, which discriminates against a group of people, who discriminates against same-sex couples, and so today I want to congratulate Eve and Mladen who spoke publicly and their problem, who have dared and I want to give them words of support because of the courage to stand up against discrimination, against the same-sex couples that this assembly majority voted on last Friday, today on International Human Rights Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101767	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101768	Next statement of view on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101769	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to present my position, one dissatisfaction, first with the term of discussion of these two important laws, the law that actually needs those who need our help most at the moment, so those areas of the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately die greatly because of poor regional policies. I am one of the symbolic messages that we send if we have a debate really on the last day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in the late evenings when very few citizens actually follow the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, but I am sure that the residents of these areas of course could accept that some real and real amount for the development of these parts is foreseen in the 2019 budget, unfortunately, it is not. It's actually about the law, here I will refer more to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, which is extremely non-transparent, so the coverage is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we still don't know what units of local self-government will enter the mountainous and mountainous areas. It opens up space to political manipulations. It is largely discriminatory, leaving out a number of settlements because we have received information that it will enter the range of mountain-mounted areas of 85 units of local self-government and I assure you that it is a double and perhaps triple number of units of local self-government that have settlements in the mountain-mounted areas. For example, my Krapina-Zagorje County has 32 units of local self-government and there is not one unit of local self-government, not one municipality, a city that has no settlements that are not in mountain-mounted areas and all of which, of course, will not be covered by mountain-mounted areas. So the inhabitants of these areas will be cut off for the little perks given by this Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, believing that it will grow with years and that it will create a gap among citizens because some will be cut off from others, some will have the good fortune to live in mountainous and mountainous areas so that they can also benefit from Croatian mountain products and the benefits of the mountain card and others will not. I'm sorry the ministry didn't accept the proposal I made in the first reading, in the second reading, that the coverage was done at the level of violence. It is much harder to do, if it were a little more complicated work, but they would achieve much more justice about these two laws and that should essentially be all the laws. Unfortunately, he is largely unambitious, we have no concrete measures, we have no plan to keep the population in the hilly areas, we have received an empty recycled framework of old law, and after almost eight months of consultation procedure, thematic sessions, parliamentary readings, we have been warning about it from the very beginning, the adoption of procedures, however, has changed absolutely nothing, and about his ambition and his unambitiousness is saying enough that it is foreseen for the implementation of this law 40 million kunas for the whole of the Republic, and now spread it to the entire population, if we have some 45 units of local self-government, now we have 85, so of those 45 there were 200 000 inhabitants, now counting on being bars, 350 000 to 400,000 inhabitants, that is just over 100 kuna per capita who adopt the new law. And now we should have that amount so that we invest in maintaining and building infrastructure, give incentives to the economy, agriculture, finance demographic measures etc. That's actually how much this government cares about mountainous areas. We need a new approach to the development of mountainous and mountainous areas, a strategy to develop primarily agriculture and tourism, which I think is a rescue for mountainous and mountainous areas because this will only lead to further migration through petty concessions at this political level, people will feel cheated on us and instead we have prescribed the good measures that exist in our neighbourhood, primarily in the Republic of Slovenia and then in the Republic of Austria, we did not do so. This is an appeal, an appeal for the rescue of mountain-mounted areas which are to me as Zagorca, as we say are always especially in our hearts and in the past a large part of the population has lived in these areas, unfortunately today moving out. This is the last time we at least try to save them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101770	I thank my esteemed colleagues for taking this stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101771	On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, the next one will be represented by Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101772	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the very beginning, I'm going to quote a mother, who cried out yesterday no less, no more, than in the court of the Croatian court today -- "Give me the bag to take the dick out of this country. I can't take it anymore. I can't do it anymore. He's gonna kill my dick. I can't take it anymore. Who do I have to worry about from Croatia?" And that is what we in the SDP are constantly warning about. People from Croatia don't run away because they only have a small salary. People run because they don't trust those institutions to protect them from crime, violence, corruption. People are simply disappointed to see this injustice. And we have witnessed that in Croatia, violence is on the rise, violence is on the loose, they are getting acquittals, Croatia is choking in affairs while on the other hand we see that the DORH is doing nothing, and that is with the evidence that appears in the public. At the same time, HDZ members are employed in public administration. They're over 4,000 obedients who have to vote for you in the election. At the same time, the Prime Minister employs half his relatives at Dubrovnik Airport. At the same time, the sister of Finance Minister Maric becomes the director of the HANFA sector to be monitored by Agrokor, and she is likely to write a positive report on the affair of all the affairs in which he and Plenkovic are involved in Croatia. And all this injustice and everything that happens in Croatia drives three buses of people from our country a day. And every day we testify that they are trying to convince us that abnormal things in Croatia are actually normal. So is political corruption, so is buying hands in the Assembly and in the Zagreb City Assembly. Yesterday, we also witnessed one shameless act of this same political corruption in the vote of the Zagreb budget. I am sure that three representatives who supported the Zagreb budget did not do so because of interest in voters, because of interest in citizens, towards Zagreb and Zagreb, because of love for man, but solely because of their own interests. They betrayed their parties and their voters, just like MPs in the Parliament, including traitors and SDP fugitives who tried to trick Croatian citizens with unskilled spin, and they only confirmed how much they cared about social democracy and why they left the SDP. HDZ servants once again showed their true face and voted in favour of the government of the Republic of Croatia's budget. And in his 27 years of long history, the Parliament has never less reflected the will of the people, the will of the citizens than it is now. Over 20 MPs have left their political ideas and political parties. And it is very interesting and indicative that Plenkovic's biggest ally is ahead of the meeting's majority, Mr. Bandic. And there are absolutely no principles in that store. Because if there were, surely the justifications for voting on the esteemed member of the HSLS would not be sought in the origin of someone's last name. And despite Mr Hasanbegovic's strong support and efforts to erase antifascism from the Croatian Constitution, I will remind him that it was antifascism that was the value and fluids that fought against those dark forces, the ideology of the past, that counted people's blood cells and took the lives of all those who are other and different. I will remind him that antifascism is the value of freedom, equality, solidarity and justice and whatever, Mr. Hasanbegovic, which I will never agree with your policy because it divides people, it is extreme, never in our country will I allow anyone to call you because of your background and I will always condemn it. And that's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u101773	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I suggest we start with our work, and I would suggest that, in accordance with the proposal of several clubs, yes, and also in accordance with the article. 247. Let the Rules of Procedure unite the debate on the next 9 points that are related to taxes. Does anyone mind? No one seems to mind. Thank you very much. Then this one, then we'll unite the debate on those nine points. These are: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 432. Final proposal of the Law amending the Real Estate Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 436. Final bill of the Excise Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 440. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 433. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 434. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 435. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in cash, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 437. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 438th and - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of tax, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 439. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the State Budget. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable Minister of Finance Zdravko... I'm sorry, now you've confused me, but the man didn't even start talking, you've already lifted up the line. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Great, I like psychics. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] This respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102299	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here are a few words within this opening statement. There will certainly be opportunities and responses to replicas and during today's debate to clarify all the details of this package of 9 Laws, which, in fact, represents the third round of tax, not tax and administrative discharge within a single tax reform which has been in place since 1.1.2017, therefore, in 2016, when tax system analysis and the principles of tax reform have been carried out, and together with this, all the forms and measures that have been made and which we are proposing and now, I would say they are all on the trail of these postulates, principles, principles, principles and general directions that we have already drawn up. I won't waste too much time on what's been done so far, but still it is necessary, of course, to apostrophe and put one comprehensive overall context of everything that's been done so far. The first round of tax discharge came into force in 1.1.2017 through 16 laws, followed by over 30 sublegal acts. He felt the most in income tax by raising the level of the non-taxable part or basic personal deduction from 2.600,00 kn to 3.800,00 kn with an increase in the progressivity in the coefficients for dependent members, and of course, for members with disabilities needs. As a result, 70 % of all employees and pensioners today are not subject to the obligation to pay income tax on the basis of non-permanent labour income. In translation, this is about a million and a half of our fellow citizens of 2.7 million taxpayers in terms of income tax. Then, one of the measures that I love very often and as a minister of finance to apostrophe in the public that I think was certainly one of the stronger measures, perhaps not so well-recognized, but here, according to these figures that you will know for sure, because that is the profit tax rate that has been reduced from 20 to 18, and for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs whose annual turnover is up to 3 million kuna, 12%. In translation, this means that 85% of our entrepreneurs pay a 12% profit tax. Also, the VAT redistributed to the standard rate, as well as 13% lower, was allowed to lower prices to services paid by all citizens in the supply of electricity to garbage. Of course, there are also a number of administrative discharges such as paying public car fees in one place, remember, and that was one of the measures that you welcomed in the debate, and in close cooperation, mainly with the county community, we defined how and how we implement this in the work and we know that it works ourselves, so not for 3 months anymore, but in one place you are practically doing everything. Real estate tax all by official duty, the choice of tax base in the taxpayer's profit tax, remember that measure to introduce so-called. the monetary principle or that the obligor may object to whether to report on a monetary or accounting basis. In the second round of tax discharges which entered into force on 1 January 2018, the largest part focused on the tax discharge of entrepreneurs through recognition or through the VAT system as well as income tax. In VAT, the value added tax threshold has been raised from 230 to 300,000 kuna, allowing small entrepreneurs to exit the system with additional opportunities for income taxpayers to move to flat-rate taxation. Today, we have 36,000 cobwebs, as far as the flatulents and the flat-rate taxation are concerned, I think it is clear to all of us that the admission of all intent to enable and facilitate their business in the sense that there is no need for additional administration, and of course it has its effect on financial, financial burdens, therefore there has been an additional and financial discharge. The right to pretax for taxpayers of 50% for private cars to a value threshold of 400,000 kuna has been recognised. I don't think there was one entrepreneur, an employer at any time when they performed individually, any time they performed within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Employers' Association that this measure as such did not apostrophe something that was previously in the legislation after that was expelled, we returned it exactly the way I said it. And I will also remind myself of one measure that has also been quite well accepted, which is due to the problem of labour shortages in seasonal jobs, the right to the cost of accommodation and food of workers has been recognised. Otherwise, for information only, the measure started this year in 2018, 104 entrepreneurs, a total of 9,000 employees benefiting from this measure. So I'd say also quite successfully engaged measures. In the first round of tax redundancies, the total tax burden is down 2.3 billion kuna in the second additional 1.3, so in 2 years we can say 3.6 billion, and now in this bill we would now focus on suggesting an additional tax discharge of 3 billion kuna, so all together in these three years we come to the amount of 6.6 billion kuna. Otherwise, as regards these technical details, the very time course of this third round of tax discharge I will remind you that, from the beginning of August to the middle, the procedure for the previous assessment of the effects of the regulations was carried out, then from practically the Great Lady of 15 and 16 respectively. The 8th to 6.9th e-consultation procedure on bill proposals was adopted, over 600 comments were received, on each individual we naturally answered the reasoned why we can accept something, why we can't or can't accept something. On September 20th, the tax reform package was held at a session of the government, i.e. this third round and during the 10th month and October respectively, we had our first reading. I, in this presentation on these measures, will apostrophe those most important changes and, above all, highlight what has been changed and I would say in relation to first reading as such now proposed. I will start with the VAT Act, with a view to reducing the regressive impact of value added tax, the rate of 13% on goods that make up the most important part of the consumer basket of every citizen, and we can certainly tell the whole of our society, which is, above all, fresh or chilled meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs and the related service of the delivery of live animals and children's diapers. Compared to first reading, the use of reduced VAT rates of 5% to all medicines is prescribed regardless of whether they are issued on a doctor's prescription as previously or without it, and the use of reduced VAT rates of 13% on services and related copyrights of writers, composers and performers under prescribed conditions. In relation to first reading, it is also prescribed that the tax authority may require the taxpayer to submit a VAT guarantee instrument if he doubts the justification for the award of VAT, etc. the identification or identification of the number and when obtaining the used means of transport from the European Union for the obligation of VAT. In the other part, of course, the proposal for a change from the first reading was retained, and I will re-absorb and repeat that the strongest measure of reducing the VAT rate from 25% to 13% to the already categories of products and goods that I mentioned. I will also repeat that for the sake of the occurrence of avoidance of registrations in the VAT system, the obligation to enrol in the VAT system is prescribed as soon as the threshold of 300 thousand kuna is crossed in one accounting period in order to comply with the Council Directive 2017 and it is proposed to simplify the application of a specific taxation procedure for so-called ‘Tax’. electronic services. Also, in order to respect the opinion and requirements of the European Commission, the value of the 400 thousand kuna threshold for a 50% deduction of the pre-tax is lifted, so I mentioned earlier as of 1.1.2018 that the right to recognise a pre-tax in purchase and maintenance, but was a threshold of 400 thousand, the European Commission has made it clear that this threshold cannot be in the legislation because it is discriminatory and contrary to certain principles and principles. In order to carry out targeted controls and to facilitate the monitoring of the supply of goods and services, the obligation to submit records of receipts of accounts is prescribed. the entry book or the URA. The emphasis that there are no changes in the existing records but only the obligation to deliver it must be said that at all the meetings we had with employers we stressed all the time. In order to uniformly equalise the tax treatment of domestic and foreign taxpayers with regard to the INO PPO transfer institutes, the transfer of the tax liability to deliveries made by a foreign obligor is abolished. All these measures result in or have a fiscal effect of 1.5 billion kuna in 2019. It also proposed to reduce the overall value added tax rate from 1.1.2020. In terms of the Tax on Profits Act, we have already said in the context of the first reading that corrections are made and are done in the light of compliance with European legislation, and among other things there is no change in the first reading we have already given. Therefore, in order to comply with part of the Council Directive 2016, which seeks to prevent, at global level, the unforeseeable application of rules in taxation of profits by aggressive tax planning, i.e. to prevent multinational companies from moving profits from a more favourable tax judications area, provisions on the rules on interest limits and rules in controlled foreign societies are laid down. In order to simplify the way in which foreign performers are taxed, so artists and athletes in cases where a contracted fee is paid to an foreign legal person, tax is prescribed at a deduction rate of 15%, excluding the need for the collection of income tax and the corresponding contributions to a natural person of an foreign contractor. Of the other changes, we are equating the way in which non-operative judications are treated, we are in line with the Alternative Investment Funds Act and we are in line with the Law on the procedure of extraordinary management in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia and the Consumer Bank Act. As far as the Income Tax Act is concerned, we also talked about it in the context of our first reading. Now I'm going to say what's changed exactly in relation to what we talked about at the first reading, in a tax sense, a abstention member can be used as a tax relief if he doesn't receive more than 15 thousand kuna a year. During the first reading, it is proposed not to take scholarships independently of the amount and independently of the origin of domestic or international, and is also proposed to support a child for schooling until the 15th year of life if the employer pays the child of a deceased or former worker. As an income from insurance, payments from the 3rd pillar are taxed but only up to the amount of untaxed and paid premiums and benefits used and life insurance payments but only up to the amount used in the period 2001-2010 as a tax relief. Since payment from the third pillar is no longer proposed during the first reading to be taxed even in part of the non-taxable premiums and reliefs used, the same is proposed for the tax-recognized premiums of life insurance. Once again, we are talking about the period when this was applied from 2001 to 2010. Therefore, it is reserved that the employer can irrevocably pay 500 kuna a month, i.e. 6 thousand kuna a year for, or his employee, in the third pillar. The rule in income tax is that everything that has been made possible under more favourable conditions is considered income and taxed as income in nature. Among other things, it is prescribed to consider more favourable interest, interest below 3%. At the time of the introduction of this rule, interest was moving at levels of about 6%. We are witnessing that both consolidation and stabilisation of public finances, economic indicators, reducing the risk premium for the Republic of Croatia both directly to the state budget and indirectly to entrepreneurs and citizens. Of course, there was a decrease in interest rates on the market. And following precisely this drop in interest is prescribed and suggested a more favourable interest on the determination of the yield in nature from now on considered interest below 2%. Otherwise, it's one of the topics we've been leading over the past few weeks with several different segments of employees in both the private and public sectors. The last conversations we had were just doctors who came among other things with such an appeal, given that one of the measures being taken and in some way trying to add an extra step is to make new packages of different forms of lending of housing, i.e. buying apartments and real estate for different segments of our fellow citizens. For the sake of harmonising the level of tax burden on the tenant in tourism. There are nearly 100,000 of them, in 104 thousand objects. Thus, the number of private tenants, also well advanced and increased over the past few years, which generally pay flat-rate income tax per bed or accommodation unit in the camp, was established in 2004. Already in the first reading, a new way of prescribing income tax rates has been prescribed. I will just remind myself that according to the existing legislation, the limit between 150 and 300 thousand kuna is based on the assumption that the bed, on average annually, is occupied for 35 nights and that it averages 100 kuna per night. So I repeat once again in 2004, this provision has been valid since 2004. The representative bodies of the local self-government unit will decide to prescribe the level of flat tax per bed, i.e. by accommodation unit, the camp within the legal limits of 150 to 1500 kuna. As the amendments to the laws, amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, total income from income tax are made to local self-government and has, among other things, its independence in terms of determination, if we want to cut the rate in accordance with the laws prescribed by the same principle and this provision is prescribed. However, in order to ensure the consistency of taxation of renters in second reading, a provision is prescribed to apply the rate of flat-rate tax of 750 kuna to local self-government units which do not make an independent decision on the level of the flat-rate tax. So, every unit of local self-government decides independently on the level of tax where it is possible, of course, that a single unit retains this existing, limitations and borders I have already said and now we define more precisely in this second reading that if the representative body was municipal, either the city council does not make such a decision, or the assembly does not make one such decision. As regards other changes in relation to second reading, in the case of self-employed obligors, therefore crafts and free professions, the recognition of written claims in consumer bankruptcy and the right to additional reductions on the basis of research and development expenditure is prescribed in accordance with specific regulations. Other changes, I will only pass briefly, so what we have already said in the first reading for additional tax discharge is prescribed to extend the tax rate to the income tax rate of 24% from the annual tax base of 210 thousand to 360, which per month means from 17,5 per 30 thousand to simplifying the taxation process of temporary, or occasional jobs of seasonal workers in agriculture. Taxation of these incomes is prescribed at a rate of 12% as a final second income and no more as a second income per 24% rate, so the need to include other amounts of income in the annual income tax account has been excluded. Also to simplify the existing way of taxing receipts in nature based on the allocation or municipal purchase of own shares which employers payer of income or wages, give to employees, other persons or members of the administration who according to existing tax regulations, meaning the application of the matrix of different provisions, the tax on capital income is prescribed, and I now have to say one more note ', at the rate of 36% in the first reading, for the second reading we propose at the rate of 24%. In order to simplify the rules on annual income tax accounting, a simpler way of accounting for pensioners and taxpayers is prescribed, to respect living situations in determining the right to a personal deduction for dependent members, the criteria for the achievement of incomes of 15000 kuna, it is prescribed that no compensation is taken into account from insurance paid for serious injuries and recognised disability, scholarships, regardless of who the payer is, I have already said, and the rewards for the execution of pupils and students paid out of the budget, as well as the grants paid out from the budget of the European Union funds and programmes. For the same reasons, it is prescribed that no receipts shall be considered to determine the income of the allocation of textbooks, work notes and notebooks, which units of local self-government or county, shall be given to students, i.e. the cash fees paid on that basis. So I'm going to say it one more time, we had from unit to unit of local self-government different approaches, now we're kind of equating them. The total effect of these measures is 210 million kuna in 2010. The Law on Contributions, in relation to first reading, and given the change in the Law, which is prescribed by the basics of insurance, new basics of insurance have been proposed. Care for children with developmental difficulties or carers of persons with disabilities, liquidators and persons enrolled in the Register of farmers. I will just briefly repeat, within the first reading, we have debated a lot, so either the total cost or we call it such a total salary contribution, which includes, or today, a contribution to health insurance 15%, income from HZZO, 0.5% of labour injuries, income from HZZO and 1.7% of income from HZZ, the Employment Office, from which unemployment benefits are paid, so the correction is in a way that these last 2 contributions are completely abolished but one re-location is made to the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The net effect from 17.2% is the cost of the employer or the total contribution to the salary, down to 16.5%, which is around 950 million kuna more for the employer and about a billion 350 million kuna more for the health system, so for the Croatian Health Insurance Office. In terms of the Real estate tax law, there is no change compared to first reading, I will only repeat that the main measure in this Act is to lower the tax on property sales from 4% to 3%, so that's about 100 million kuna somewhere. As for the law on fiscalisation in cash, there is no fundamental change in the framework compared to the first reading. In order to improve the fiscalisation system, by creating an environment of orderly financial discipline, the obligation to fiscalise sales data, in the case of sales of goods or services through self-service or self-service devices is prescribed. The obligation to issue an account with self-service devices is not introduced but is prescribed for the fiscalisation of sales data to adapt existing self-service devices to the implementation of the sales data fiscalisation process, a period of adjustment of 2 year is prescribed. Also, in order to report the need to issue fiscalised accounts, the introduction of a new obligation in the printing of accompanying documents is prescribed where payment data is provided. Printing a notification that says "This is not a fiscalized account". In order to respect the way entrepreneurs operate, a longer deadline is also prescribed to remove the fault of the charger, today it is 2 days, we prescribe 5 days. The general tax law, in relation to first reading, allows for the extension of the use of an account in electronic form, in such a way that the taxpayer can always issue an account in electronic form unless the recipient explicitly refuses such an account exposure, of course, the aim is to reduce the administrative costs of entrepreneurs, the other changes are, of course, to increase the efficiency of the proceedings. I will remind myself that in this part we have already, and in the first round and first reading we have apostrophysed, that the provision that the accounts no longer have to be stored in a materialized form, but can be recorded in electronic form, therefore, and stored as such in some of the types of electronic storage, which on one hand, and I repeat once again, and administratively, and we can say financial simplification, and ultimately ensure greater security, because we have not had a number of times we have witnessed that due to some poorer quality of print or paper, actually over time and that part and disappears. In order to prevent illegal activities from being carried out via websites, the IP-blocking provision is prescribed to provide such activities. On the basis of the Act of the Competent Taxation Authority, the Competent Regulatory Agency for Network Activities will block access to content. The person who has performed illegal activities in this way will be invited to coordinate his business in accordance with the positive regulations, thus eliminating the need to block access to its sites. In order to reduce the costs of entrepreneurs, an option is prescribed which I have already said that the paper documentation is converted into digital records, for the purpose of requiring entrepreneurs to simplify the presentation of data on outstanding claims through the OPZ-STAT Form, simplification in the presentation from the surrender of that form is prescribed. In order to require entrepreneurs to provide greater legal certainty to their business, areas for which binding opinions may be requested, therefore, the entrepreneur will be able to request the issue of binding opinions, which will not be limited to the scope of the tax itself. It also increases the efficiency of the work of tax authorities through the signing of a series of provisions of the basis for moving to the creation of acts in electronic form. Also, executive procedure, and so on. The Law on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is in line with the Regulation of 2017. Finally, the Excise Taxation Act, compared to first reading, expands and is expanded and the Institute is proposed to extend the Institute of Reciprocation of Excise Return Rights, and compared to diesel fuel used as fuel for commercial passenger transport, I will repeat that in the context of the first reading, we have said, for passenger transport we can call it cargo, therefore cargo, and now we are expanding to passengers. The transport of passengers shall be equal to the commercial transport of goods, of at least 7.5 tonnes capacity. In this respect, the provisions of Article 104, the final proposal of the Law, amended in a way that prescribes the right to return paid excise duty, and in relation to commercial carriers based in the national area, as well as in the EU, for fuel diesel used in commercial transport of passengers, road vehicles of category M2 and M3 as defined in the Council Directive back in 1970. The category M2 refers to vehicles intended for the transport of passengers other than the driver’s seat have more than 8 seats and whose permitted mass is not more than 5 t. While vehicles of category M3 refer to vehicles intended for the transport of passengers other than the driver’s seat have more than 8 seats and whose permitted mass is more than 5 t. Otherwise only for information, so we are talking about the return of excise duty to a minimum level, the minimum compliance with the excise duty regulation and the European Community directive is 330 euros, in Croatia currently 408.16 so this difference can be returned to the already mentioned carriers, whether we are talking about cargo or about passenger transport. In any case, we expect a positive impact on the reduction in operating costs, especially those of the carrier, which carry out the transport of pupils and citizens to rural and economically less developed parts of the Republic of Croatia, whose lines have become more economically invaluable or completely invaluable as a result of the reduction of the number of students. I think there were several contributions to the media yesterday, that we have a few situations that individual lines have been cut, so this way we give one incentive not to do it anyway, that even the car carriers have can say weave, economic and financial account. Positive devices are, of course, an incentive to buy diesel fuel in the Republic of Croatia, in general to purchase legal fuel, but also to encourage the tax competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia, because some of these measures, countries in our environment, but also across the EU, already have in their tax system. The effects of this law, along with the measure proposed in the first reading, with the latter is 294 million kn, much of which is around €240 million, compared to the return of part of the excise duty paid, for the commercial transport of goods by trucks, and 54 million on the commercial transport of passengers, buses and mini buses. What you would say before the end of this part, the opening and my introductory words, therefore, after the vote of these legal provisions, those of the largest parts or almost entirely should enter into force on 1 January 2019, will immediately come into force and should enter into force, as was the first case in the first round of tax reform and sublegal acts, rules of various kinds and others, which, in accordance with the regulations of law, are regulated by the operational implementation of all these measures and provisions that I have just spoken of. At the meeting of the Government, we announced that by the end of the year they are not subject to the vote of the Croatian Parliament, but I believe that it will be the subject of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, so I will immediately say, among other things, that, in any case, by the end of the year under these sublaws, any government regulations, whether the rules of the Ministry of Finance, but very clearly and transparently communicated to the public, we will make some additional corrections in the tax system, one concerning and related to the issue of taxation of tobacco and tobacco processing. According to everything, we expect these provisions to go into effect as early as December 1st, but let's wait a few more days to define everything from the definition. Then, of course, the issue of taxation by special taxes on motor vehicles, one of the parliamentary issues on the previous current morning, was among other things on the subject and ultimately the issue of the income tax rule. We made it clear the other day that under that income tax regulation, we would increase the amount of non-taxable, annual non-taxable incomes, we put this proposal for a regulation two days ago for legal counselling. We have already received several, I have to say very good, very constructive and I would say a comment that is valid and worth considering and I think that some of them will be adopted, given the fact that this rule must, of course, be adapted to the existing working legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and all that is defined, already with the existing positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there will also be speeches during the next days, since public consultation is still taking place as such. But in any case, the measure is intended, among other things, to increase the annual amount of non-taxable receipts from 2,500 to 7,500 kn, which may mean many and many employers, i.e., mainly their employees' additional payment, either in the light of any salary supplement, any annual reward or whatever the employer might call it, but in any case, these additional 5000 kn will be prescribed as one of its own new rights and will not have an additional link with these existing rights, but the total amount of annual untaxable benefits will be 7500 kn per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102300	Thank you very much. We've got quite a series of replicas I'd almost say, I think half the representatives present have come forward, so let's take a turn. Absolutely the first was Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102301	Thank you very much, Mr. President, these tax changes that we have in front of us today are inadequate, in a moment, I would call them catastrophic, for what we could do. It's not funny, Mr. Bačić, it's not the point of helping anything small, the point is that Croatia's average salary is 3 times lower than the average salary in the EU. And prices due to high VAT are the same or even more than in the EU, rather than in Ireland, Germany, etc. Our people leave every year, and what does the government do? The government decides to raise the salary, net wages, for Plenkovic's elite 20,000 people in Croatia at monthly level. Whoever has more than 17500 kn will have a higher salary. Everyone else is nothing. You won't have any, you'll pay taxes as you've done so far. And it's a disaster, and that's what we need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102302	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102303	Thank you very much, Vice President, here's my answer, just to say hello to you, Your Honor, since you didn't say hello to me, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102304	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, I welcome the decision to increase the non-taxable part of the receipt to £7.500,00, this is the party Change Croatia proposed two years ago as the 13th salary, but we welcome it. But I can't help but feel that this whole thing is so-called. reforming the package of laws that it will not benefit, will not help those who are the poorest, endangered workers who live on their salaries, so I suggest the following while there is still time, while we are discussing, please change Croatia's offer to increase the untaxable income from 3.800,00 kn to 5.00 kn. You know very well that the revenues of the budget are about two billion two hundred million and that's a small part, you can save on the interest you pay on the loans. So this would be the right thing to do, and just one more question, return the flat tax for the concert. with the price of tickets to the movies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please don't discriminate against these two industries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102306	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102307	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, thank you for your comment and for the question, and also in this part of the praise you said, so I would say that in this way you answered the good part of the question, so we have already raised that non-taxable part, and I have just mentioned the effects of that from 2.600,00 kn to 3.800,00 kn with the additional raise of the coefficients and the progressiveness in terms of the coefficient for the abstentioned members that at this point are not in the scales of income tax. Therefore, any correction in terms of further incurring and increasing the non-taxable part of them cannot be applied since they are already not paying taxes at this time. And that's why, in that context, we went on to raise this total annual untaxable amount of income. It's the only way where they can expect from their employers in terms of actually getting an increase in their monthly or annual salaries exactly in principle or in the way we said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102308	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, I'm not going to say hello either because you've acted unworthyly as you act. You are a minister, a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is your duty to answer questions. That's why I'm going to repeat to you the same question Mr. Maras repeated to you, which you refused to answer. Do you feel that it is more socially acceptable to help with the tax discharge of 20,000 Croatian citizens who are already earning net wages of €17.500,00 or more, or would be more socially acceptable to accept the measure proposed by the SDP, which is that the non-taxable share rises from €3.800,00 to 5.00 with the same fiscal effect, but thus helps about two-thirds of Croatian citizens who receive salaries, whose salaries range from 3,8000,00 kn over. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102310	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102311	Thank you very much, Your Honor. If I acted rudely, I apologize to every MP, but I don't think I offended anyone, I just said that I usually say goodbye to my colleague, Maras, as a rule, to you never. You just go through it one way or the other. So, as for the non-taxable part of any of this general, either now that I've answered the esteemed representative Lovrinovic, so I'm going to do it one more time. The rise of the non-taxable part would once again pass the vast majority of taxpayers since more than a million and a half of them do not pay. On the other hand, I did not apostrophe another element, which is the fact that income from income tax, income from units of local and regional self-government. So this would mean a huge loss of tax revenue to them, and as such we have just proposed this part of raising the non-taxable annual income, but once you get through all these measures, 3 billion kuna of additional tax dispensation will very much be felt on Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102312	Thank you. Dear Representative Maras has raised his hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102313	Thank you very much. The SDP advocates' club is looking for a break to consult on this scandalous behaviour of a minister who doesn't generally understand that our citizens live in catastrophicly difficult, that hundreds of thousands of people leave Croatia every day, Ireland, Germany, just say where, and he deals with 20,000 people who will receive more money every month, who are already earning more than 17.000,00 kn. So, the problem with the Republic of Croatia is that wages are low, it's embarrassing how the minister treats public officials who are having a hard time earning their salaries, teachers and school teachers. Says Minister 3% is the only thing I can give you... And that's his message, take 150,00 kn per month, deal with our children, and then do auxiliary jobs after your job, to survive. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is this government, it is Andrej Plenkovic, it is Zdravko Maric, so these are people who are not sensitive, who have no understanding for those who do hard work. I left two kids at school this morning, and it's hard for me to see teachers and teachers of 60 who work in five and a half, six thousand kunas. And that's what we're talking about here, and Mr. Zdravko Maric is offended because someone didn't title him Mr. Minister, here's what I'm titled 3 times. Raise these people's salaries, give them six, nine percent increase because they deserve, lag behind, their salaries are well below average in the Republic of Croatia, doing the most difficult jobs possible. Public workers, teachers, social workers, people in health care, these are people who earn their wages bloody and should be talked about and therefore we are looking for a break and do not be offended because you have not been personally appointed by Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister Maric, you're doing your job. You're not just helping those who are the richest. And don't think about how you're going to get caught. [[Intruder: Thank you]] about a hundred thousand kunas in Adris. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102314	Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102315	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues today we expected to come out here with ideas and visions about how anyone sees tax changes and that we will not talk about what happened in the past. For this reason, however, we are looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for the reason that both in this debate and in future discussions, we simply need to tell the facts, not those who have abolished the 0 VAT on bread and milk, and in this way took 2 billion kunas to Croatian citizens, who raised the VAT rate from 23% to 25%, who did not know what to do with health contributions and so health care would take a billion kuna of 6 million, today hitting on ideas of what and how to do. They then explained this to the current situation the opposition was saying then, but is today the problem of this untaxable part proposed by the minister or those who suggest that the non-taxable part rise to 5,000 kuna. What would that mean for local self-government units, practically a large part of local self-government units would practically run out of original income, more income taxes would not be for them, they would live to benefit from the state budget. So that's the way to centralization of colleagues and colleagues, and I'm going to do something more in my debate on behalf of the club, let's put these tax changes in the budget that we're going to discuss in 10 days, then we're going to see how good they are. So, today, the minister criticises those who took 6 billion from Croatian citizens based on tax changes, took nearly 8 billion kunas over the past 5 years based on an increase in electricity and gas, criticising the minister for one change, but on the other hand, Mr. Minister of this criticism should serve you honor and pride, because if they have nothing else to object to about tax reform, you and the HDZ government, then it is a great thing for us. I was expecting a series of concrete proposals today, here's my colleague Jovanovic, last time in the debate, suggested the problem of the VAT rate on drugs, did the minister adopt it, and I think it should be highlighted as something reasonable doesn't matter who proposes It's a quality thing to adopt. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102316	Thanks. Another club wants a break? No, then I set a break until 10 o'clock and 28 minutes. Ten o'clock and 20 minutes. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS]] First, I'd like to say hello and welcome to all the expensive students of the Pitomac elementary school who are looking at us at the gallery. Secondly, let me announce, so on Monday we'll have budget rebalances and a full schedule for next week of all points you'll get tomorrow. [[Applause.]] But Monday's budget rebalance. So here, we all know and of course the law of execution, it always goes together. Here, we move on to the following replicas, the respected representative Tomislav Panenić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Honorable representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102318	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one problem with the minister, there's talk about tax discharge and budget expenditures are growing, and the number of employees in the state service is growing, and I think one medium published two days ago 2700 a year ago by HDZ. We have one irresponsible behavior and a constant story and a mantra about tax discharge. Here, for example. You suggested reducing the tax rate to income, so these amount to 17 thousand and 500 to 30 thousand kuna. And the reason is to keep young people in the country. I ask you which young people in Croatia have such incomes and you represent it as some big measure that will keep young people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102319	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102320	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, a package of tax changes has been proposed for both the original ones and those who are now looking at the entire tax system. So you've singled out only one segment of the measure concerning those with the highest incomes. However, I will repeat once again that here, in the context of income tax, not only of the law but also of the regulations, changes are proposed to raise the untaxed part of the annual incomes, a measure that can be touched by any Croatian employee, so any Croatian citizen who is unbound at the level of his monthly or annual incomes, of course depending on the possibilities of the employer and its results and effects. But I will repeat our intention once again and it is precisely that through the tax system within all these laws and all segments this tax discharge that is not little, 3 billion kunas proposed from the beginning of next year is not a small amount, the schedules on as many layers and citizens as possible, and thus entrepreneurs and all together have positive discharge effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102321	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, here I will really be correct and say that I am glad that you have respected the requirement to lower the VAT rate to non-receptive medicines, so that all medicines are both prescription and non-receptive at the moment with 5% rate. It is known that about half a billion kuna per year is spent in Croatia on non-receptive medicines, and it is likely that the amount will now be higher, given that part of the citizens who went to neighbouring countries will stay and buy it in Croatia. But what I want to ask you to comment on how that is that you didn't exactly respect any of the proposals that came from the Central State Sport Office, which were intended to increase investment and encourage sport, ensure easier work of professionals, reduce, say, value added tax, to tickets for sports events. So no proposal came from the Central State Sport Office in this reform has been given a green light.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102323	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102324	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as we have spoken here and you had then in the context of replica and conversation, we have spoken, so it is certainly the idea and the intention to continue to create spaces in general in public finances and in the budget for and additional disbursements. This is what we can go out with at this time in front of Croatian citizens and the public, the space we created, not small, those 3 billion kunas. We have already spoken and announced that the safe course we have set in motion and which is already the third year will continue. As far as these comments are concerned, which you said with the Central State Sport Office and we at the Ministry of Finance and those as of course an integral part of the functioning of the state administration and government, we have very clear and open communication. And today, of course, it is prescribed that a certain percentage can be tax-recognized in terms of segregation for sport, for various types of donations and sponsorships, but with them we lead among other dialogues how and how to improve overall funding and sustainability of sport financing in general from the school to the top one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102325	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102326	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Maric, I will refer to the Income Tax Act. I think there's still a pretty unfair provision there. So what happens when a abstentioned person, so a child is employed at the 9th month and by the end of the year passes 15 thousand kuna, it passes from a self-sustained person to a taxpayer. Supporters and parents, however, are losing their right to tax relief for the whole year. That's unfair, and what does it mean that in the first nine months, you shouldn't have held that person back? That transition is pretty rough this way. I think that in today's digital era it can be regulated if not at the monthly level, at least on a quarterly level, and this is how we have an injustice, we have ideas that stimulate the gray economy, and I believe that something can be done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102327	Thank you, the answer of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102328	Thank you very much, Your Honor, well addressed and a question, and I'm very pleased to see you coming. We had this debate, it was mainly about scholarships, we addressed these changes, you know well that we recognized that part of the promotion of excellence and in general students in this way, but now the question of course work we open one I would say the additional problem is not all so unequivocal I believe and I know that the great greater of our students are worth and orderly and in their student work, which is learning and passing exams in some way is partly and forced, and on the other hand it does certain and does certain jobs and achieves some income through student or student work. But we know very well that in this segment we still need to lay down the rules and regulations of course in these 15 thousand as such still remains, but we are finally talking about the total annual amount, so individual examples when something crosses a certain line somewhere. I can't be completely.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102329	The next is a replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102330	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Ministers with Associates. Tax pressure in the Republic of Croatia is extremely high in terms of countries from the environment and you as a Slavonac and a good basketball player failed to score and you missed out on the 3rd. You did not cut to this particular package of consumer basket products at the level of tax pressure as it is in the environment, and it is lower than 10%, 10 and lower, why you did not go 5% to these consumer basket products and thus raised support for domestic production, raised domestic consumption, and as with tower and dry meat products, you did not answer me and therefore Slavonci will not welcome you bravo ministers, and you could point here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102331	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102332	There's a basketball basket and extra throwing, so it can be like a trit, so I've already said in the first reading, so the emphasis is fresh and cooled meat, I think it's mostly in Slavonia and in other parts of the Republic of Croatia, and I'm sure it's and it wants to be welcomed, mainly because in some way we've circled the whole thing I would have told the story with recognition and inclusion and live animals in that whole cycle of reduced rates, but we also said in the context of the first reading that at this point we have to withdraw the border within fiscal possibilities, give all the meat processing and frozen meat can't be placed at this point in that lower tax rate at added value. Will we of course create pressure tomorrow I would say first of all to my colleagues and tax authorities in terms of and regulation would be much simpler if fiscal space and capacity in the Republic would be such that we can place complete food on a reduced, but I believe that this too I would say one significant step and especially for the ends you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102333	The next replica of the respected representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. So it is generally known that Croatians are leaving this country because of the economic destruction of Slavonia, Dalmatia because of the shooting fascia, because of the stealing privatisation, but also because of the general hopelessness, but when I read the law I saw Article 6(2) I went mad, I simply could not believe where you reduce VAT to all kinds of milk except for yogurt, I remembered a sad story of pooping somewhere recently a famous Croat had to leave this country just because of the high price of yogurt. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Minister, to take responsibility and to release our yogurt into this section and not allow more than one Croat for yogurt must leave Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102335	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102336	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I have to admit, as far as milk and milk processing are concerned, everything that has so far been reduced by 5% remains still, there have not been made any kind of corrections, so I will repeat fresh meat and chilled meat, fresh and chilled fish, fruits, vegetables, eggs, diapers, live animals, this is what we have caught in this particular case. I'm going to use this time to the end in terms of the answer it's exactly one way and how you can reduce the regressive effect of the value added tax system and still allow all citizens to increase their available income, especially those with the lowest incomes, because in their structure the monthly and annual costs are the most representative, and yet I repeat for some other products, goods and services, including some you mention, although yogurt is already in the system of reduced VAT rates we can talk about in other steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102337	The next replica, the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102338	Dear Ministers, we heard something about incentives, something about repression a little, here's one German recently said it depends on us all on the strategic level to tactical, said you Croats don't like your country, why you say you don't pay taxes, you don't respect the laws, here last year the IRS spent 219, Mr. Grumoja I would pray when I speak, calm down talking to me to listen, here's 219.147 of these billing measures, 53 thousand requirements for performance, for 2012 individuals and some companies owed the state 50 billion kuna debt to the state. When it comes to Slavonia, Mr. One here Fascism you have driven 100 thousand Croatians of German origin the most valuable minority from this country and you are still ruling here former communists and it is not possible to go forward and it is the core of the problem in Croatia. It's a mental heritage from communism and a parasitic relationship. What about those who don't pay taxes, what the IRS does? where the synchronization of these ministries is, to pay that tax. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102339	Something will answer to that fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102340	It is, thank you very much, of course, honourable MP, so surely that the integral part of the bill being proposed, under the legal acts, after our debate, I hope and believe goes into the stage of implementation there is then the responsibility of the tax authorities and bodies and I like to apostrophy it, thank you among other things and for that comment that the tax authorities must do their job and control and collect effectively all types of public giving, and thus taxes, not only for reasons and perspectives how we usually say it in public fills the budget registers, but among other things we have equal treatment for all taxpayers, so among other things, and to protect those taxpayers who regularly meet all their obligations and according to all of course the challenges and difficulties that they have. Otherwise this year we published data and about the number of supervisions and activities in the Croatian Parliament there were plenty of speeches about the good part we were criticised for it, in any case I will say that the tax, customs and all other tax authorities will continue to do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102341	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102342	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, I can congratulate you as an entrepreneur, you've done a lot of work for this time as a minister, I can only thank you as an entrepreneur who I've been paying in the budget for 30 years and I regret these people who don't understand what you've done, because they've never actually done anything. They don't understand it, they don't know what it is to be an entrepreneur, they don't know what it is to be a release, which you've made through this reform, of course it can be much more, but if we hadn't lived in this arrogant state for 25 years, we could have charged a lot more today. I thank you and congratulate you on this, you have my support, until the end, watching, reading that you have all been taxed in this country. I think that's quite enough for this time, and we'll see for a year that you put down some more things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102343	Thank you for the response of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102344	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your commendation and for your comments, but also for saying that you did not comment too much on the positive and commendable things, but what you said, so on this trail you should continue. So every tax discharge, every administrative discharge, every simplification of tax regulations, certainly for reflection and for result has some positive effect in the economy, in employment, in the growth of standards, etc. And I think that the measures so far have shown and confirmed it and, of course, we all have to strive to further create that space to make that discharge as much as possible because in a few cases and I just pointed out the case of profit tax. So cut from 20 to 18 for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so 85% of them pay the profit tax rate of 12%. We know what the growth rate was in 2017, and if you want me not to say a little bit exclusively or closely from the Ministry of Finance, that's exactly the kind that you saw growing by 17% that year. So with reduced taxes, the tax base was expanded where we contributed to the growth of economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102345	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102346	Thank you very much. Ministers of Teleoperators in Croatia have the highest profit in Europe, and therefore the head of HT administration boasts, 42% gains, margins, while in countries where they come from, 20% is even less. Teleoperators who behave illegally are forgiven for the frequency tax, the teleoperators who fire our people, and the less or less people have people, and the bigger and bigger profits. Those who extract capital from the Republic of Croatia invest in other countries, are protected because they work all illegally, do not pay the right of service as in their own countries and do not expand the optical network, i.e. but the base stations are working, and in this way, they're illegally setting them up wherever they think of them. Imagine and answer me why they are protected and why they are not taxed to be the same as in their own countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102347	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102348	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so I think it's equal to the treatment of all mandatory taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia. So, the only measure we can do among other things in the tax system and the horizontal principle, as we have done, profit tax for small and medium, up to 3 million kn traffic at 12%. We can't single out teleopers or financial institutions, or the food industry, or shipbuilding, so I don't count what activity I'm doing right now. I can only say as Minister of Finance, but also as a citizen, someone who deals with the economy and finances, I want all Croatian entrepreneurs to work in Croatia with profits. I don't have a problem with that, because then, in the end, everyone goes on and on and on and on and on if you want to go to the state register, but in any case, I'm going to do it again, it's equal to the treatment of all taxpayers, we can't introduce any kind of, let's call them so discriminatory measures, that one or another sector is either privileged or we can say in a subordinate position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102349	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic, I see, I see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102350	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable ministers with their associates, very specifically I would like to ask you something, so I am not happy, and I have repeated it many times, 5 times the upper limit of taxation of private tenants, they are in Croatia over 100,000, and that is indeed something that is an additional blow to tourism. However, I want to tell you, at least mention 2 of the problems, which relate to this issue, which we have discussed very well on the Committee on Tourism and it was a great agreement to respect this, is the first rental, and this means that the same tax cannot be paid by someone who has an apartment in Diocletian's palace and I don't know in the suburbs of Split. It means zoning related to the positional renautant. It is the first thing and the second thing we talked about also, the owner of the apartment from Zagreb, which rents a room or apartment in Split or Makarska, pays taxes in Zagreb. This is something that is also unfair, because these funds need to enter that local budget and contribute to the regulation of the municipal in that environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102351	Thank you for answering the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102352	Thank you, well-respected representative, for specific questions and very good and very addressed. We've been thinking a lot and talking about it internally, and we've had discussions last week in public consultation. Let's start with this part of the border, I'll repeat once again, income from income tax is the full income of local self-government, and we, as we say the case, pulled a parallel with a cut, we give the possibility that within the course of power they have an additional kind of independence to introduce if we want our own kind of local policy. So the limit is of 150, which means ultimately, for some units of local self-government, it can mean less than it's ever been up to 1500. So it's up to them how much they're finally going to prescribe. This second part regarding the positional rent, we will also prescribe, within the framework of the regulations, that we give again the authority of local self-government and that, among other things, they have this part in their own hands. Is that what the point is that we're all over fiscal and functional decentralisation, if we're giving someone something to manage, then they've got instruments to run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102353	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102354	Thank you very much, dear Minister Maric. When you entered into office, you registered a salary in the property card 17.505.00 kn, so could you tell how much your salary will grow from 1.1.2019 after the third round of tax reform. In my opinion, it is important that the public hears this information, so that they can compare their pay raises with your salary raises, or to raise the salary of a minister. Well, here, if you can answer that information to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102355	The minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102356	Thank you very much. So my salary, which will be paid in December, will be the same as the one in which it will be paid as minister in January, so there is no correction, since I am not entering the 36% rate, so there will be no reflection on my personal salary. As for the increase in the basis that we propose for state and public officials, I am not covered as an official, so no pay correction will be made either. The pay correction could only come on 1.9. ls that the date when I first started working, and since then I have been counting years of experience and officials are applied to the other 0.5% per year, so if it remains in force, the only pay correction as a minister can only come to me from 1 September of next year for those 0.5%. So, in terms of income tax, there's no change, I'm not in rate 36, there's no corrections basically if I'm not an official, but I'm an official and there's not any of these supplements about non-taxable receipts, as far as I know, and in the government we're not thinking about raising any non-taxable incomes for officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102357	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102358	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, dear ministers with associates. I welcome this third round of tax changes precisely because of the administrative discharges, due to the redistribution of the labour price, then the increase in citizens' income, but also the special attention to these demographic measures, and here I would like to highlight these changes and additions to the excise tax laws, you just said them quickly because of the lack of time. I think it is necessary to repeat them, which is this return, recognition of the right to return to excise duty related to diesel fuels and especially to those liner transports that are related to Lika, Slavonia, Banovina and my Dalmatian Zagora, where certain lines are completely invaluable. You said that the return on excise duty is to this minimum level, unless I'm mistaken for 54 million kunas. It would be good to do it again, point out, precisely because of those carriers that are operating in those parts of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102359	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102360	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here, I'm going to use, among other things, not only to repeat what you said, but to just say there are with me and my colleagues, the secretary of state, the director of the tax office, the director of the customs administration, who, along with their teams in recent weeks, have done a number of operational meetings and the Association of Employers and the HGK and the union representatives and the interested public, where we have received a lot of comments. One of the more frequent comments was precisely on this subject. So, the transporters that we, I would say once again, and address on those adjustments that we have brought at government level on the recognition of the transport of the students themselves at year level. However, with this measure I think we have also done a good thing, I repeat, we are also raising the competitiveness of our overall economy because today the Republic of Croatia is certainly recognised as a transport country in the sense that it has certain revenues from transport and that it is well positioned, and on the other hand we must not ignore the elements you are talking about. So we here can certainly expect the most positive effects precisely on the economically weakest developed regions of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102361	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Zdravko Ronk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102362	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, I sincerely welcome all these efforts to reduce reliefs, etc. But it would be fair to say, or I'll say it honestly, that it also needed a good foundation for the previous government that got us out of recession. What I don't think you should have insisted or enslaved is that promise, the pre-election promise about the 25-to-24 VAT reduction, that's about a billion and 600, as we had the chance to hear, up to two. It's an asset that's going to blow up somewhere between trade and production. Citizens won't feel anything, and maybe we should have used it for some other moments. One of them is possible to extend the list of this part of the reduction, but also for emergency situations, one of them certainly pays employee. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's where I suggested the one, and behind me, the SDP. One second, I suggested that non-taxable part of $3.800,00 kn at 5.00 kn, so think again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102363	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102364	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You, I know that the well-known tax system, you're looking at it as a whole, and that's good. In any case, you know well, and we talked about it despite the fact that in some way this debate had already opened and the Priors had already opened, before we had taken any kind of stand at all, and then, of course, we talked about what was better and how to look at it. So we in the government always think about the moment of the current, as well as some perspectives, as well as some of the directions and basic goals that we have set for ourselves. So, very clearly, this one, we decided in this package, in this third round of tax discharge, to place the emphasis precisely on discharging certain categories of goods and services, in this case food products, because we thought it would already have a much greater effect in the first step than to go straight to the general rate of VAT. But again, we're looking at the entire tax system, all the space fiscally we find, we're looking at how and how best and most efficient to distribute to all layers of Croatian society and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102365	The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102366	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, Your Honor, for your brief replica, so I'm going to try to be principled. So I would call this reform a reform of moderate discharge within the limits of expenditure. It's just that the expenditures are those keys that are constantly following these reforms of yours. So I'm going to say it in a vivid way, and I'm going to say, you're a Slavonic, so you're going to understand, you're making a very good charm, and you know what the problem is? What the cabbage for that charm is given to you by other ministers. So then the size of the sheets depends on, the size of the charm depends on those sheets they gave you. I've told you this many times already, pay more attention to the expenditure side. We have, when we look at this percentage amount, we have discharges that are good at percentage. However, our tax revenues are constantly growing, and in that sense, the relief effect is indeed seen as something that will stimulate the economy. Because you as a minister must be the basic thing to look after those who lay fire, you know. This was shown in profit tax, lower profit tax rates, higher tax revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102367	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102368	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I like this comparison with the charm, even though it's a little awkward at the time, I'm already feeling some kind of reaction in my stomach to the mere mention of the charm itself. As for what you're saying. Surely, then, we need to look at both the income and the expenditure side. Responsible fiscal policy management requires this, and the entire budget must be agreed in accordance with the possibilities. So here's everything we hear and from the comments that are, I'd say more than welcome to see in every next step and think about some of the following forms of discharge. However, we still have to look at one thing, so at a time when we are planning something and projecting of course we are aware that it will get some positive effects but of course responsible planning implies that we have to observe certain things at this point. So you know that for two or three years in a row, our incomes are bigger than our plan, our plan must be realistic, it must be partly even I would say conservative but when you take the effects of tax reform you see that in each of the species where we cut taxes practically through the spread of tax bases we get more. It's about the concept we have all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102369	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102370	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. So I would once again, given these skeptics, remind you of what's very important and that's in the Income Tax Act when you accepted that abstention members, so children and students have the exemption of 15 thousand kuna. And it does not burden parents themselves after that, or they can also use tax relief. It was domestic for scholarship students, whether they were foreign or not, and that's what raises the standard of every family, and it's actually an investment in the future of young people and in the future of the nation itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102371	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102372	Thank you very much. Well, that was one of the things that, I would say, not only in public consultation, but directly to the cabinet and my colleague in the ministry came up with a variety of parental enquiries. On the other hand, and the whole perspective mainly of these European Erasmus scholarships, we ultimately decided to simply give equal treatment to all types of scholarships, domestic, international, and how to promote this excellence. Although I won't ignore this one of the previous comments that was, of course, is the question of the student work itself. I think that, of course, we also need to open up different kinds of opportunities and perspectives to our students, and at the same time watch how in the tax system we do not penalize their parents, and yet on the third hand I cannot ignore and not mention one fact that it is still our responsibility to find one measure in this together so that, among other things, all possible system playbacks are reduced to the least possible measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102373	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102374	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I think that first of all I thank you for your cooperation so far, I think it's an example that without some halabuca, without some media inscriptions we can sit down and agree and exactly and our proposals are now embedded in this proposal of tax, tax change packages. And I don't think any tax measures, today or later, should go to harm, or citizens or employers, so not for any more. And that's the way it is with these guys. I haven't seen a single measure here that will require someone to pay more taxes. Now that some would like to pay even less than we have to bring it into some real frames. And I certainly think that this way of our cooperation and that has resulted in and with... By reducing the VAT and increasing the threshold and the 13th salary, which is not what we suggested, but is, in some ways, made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can see that you've cut by 12, not 12, but we can accept that, scholarships, awards. So I think it's a clue to go after the first quarter to think with in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102375	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102376	Well, here, thank you. Not only is the esteemed representative not only dialogue in the context of the debate of individual clubs of representatives but in general these general public and for professional public and public consultation are intended to do so among other things. And I will repeat in public consultation over 600 comments. We know, though, that the first almost 200 and more comments were related to a specific provision in the legislation itself, which we have proposed but a gro of these comments, I think they were all considered first and one particular part of course was accepted. And that is what we really want and in this way to raise that level of democratic dialogue that both the professional and the general public of course is involved. It is the responsibility of those who suggest that they try to unite all of this together and put it in the framework of fiscal sustainability because we would not be happy and satisfied to go in a direction that may, within a short time, endanger the stability of public finances. They're under control, and that's exactly what they're supposed to be on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102377	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102378	Dear Mr. Minister, you mentioned some censorships in your presentation that have been since 2004. I am taking the opportunity even though this is not 100% related to these laws to warn you of a censorship for an additional health insurance amounting to 1516 per person kuna and 1936 kuna per single man. And it hasn't changed since 2004, and I don't think that, regardless of Minister Pavic's promise that he will decide in agreement with Minister Kujundzic how much he will increase, it will not be possible without you and without the planned budget. But I just want to tell you that, in the meantime, the salary has increased, the net salary has increased by 43% since 2003, so nominally, I'm not talking about value but nominally, the pension has increased by 41% compared to the average, I'm always talking about average pensions and average net wages and average net pensions. Therefore, he would ask you to take care of this censorship as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102379	Thank you, Your Honor, of course I must and can only say yes to your question, because that is understood, all the measures the government proposes are the fruit and result of our inter-resorship cooperation, ultimately any act or regulation has some financial effect and even when it is not there, it must be confirmed by the Ministry of Finance, that there is no financial effect. In this particular case, both with counterpart Pavic and with counterpart Kujundzic, I have a very open dialogue on all matters, including on this subject. I don't know what you've been talking about so far, but here, I'm going to take the opportunity to tell her and like this when we're really stuck in the whole tax system, and I think we're aware that not in a small number of cases, we've actually discovered something that's actually been really going on for a longer number of years doesn't change, doesn't follow any trends and some changes in the very circumstances. So these are the same things that should take care of them and in some way, always look at how and how to respond in an adequate way and at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102380	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, somehow beneath the radar has gone through what you last said, and I think that's very important, and that's a new option that will define changing the income tax rules, and that's that non-taxable part up to 7500. So, you said 2500 stays still for what was before, and the 5,000 is kind of like to say Colloquial 13th salary or some kind of reward, it doesn't matter what they're going to call it. However, I think that on the trail of these discussions, that a small group is being paid, that this newspaper that is being introduced is far more worth those 390 thousand, which are outside of the tax scissors, because it should be noted, not only will income tax not be paid, but no contributions are paid. So this is an opportunity, for all labour-intense branches to reward their own, because those who have high wages, their employers, regardless of what they pay will be compensated and I say, that's why this measure, has passed a little below the radar, but it is just directed towards those who are currently outside the tax scissors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102382	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102383	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so here I must personally admit that since we publicly communicated on Friday, a very large number of reactions, especially entrepreneurs, and then especially employees, who came forward first, with certain questions, suggestions and now that we have put the regulation on both public consultation and specific suggestions, and it is a well-absorbed element that in this context we are actually talking about 5000 kn of an additional non-taxable annual reception, which concerns new rights, which cannot have a link to these existing rights, regardless of what we are practically talking about the total amount of 1500. And that's why we're also in these new rights, as we're going to define them by the rules, let the employers themselves define, whether it's going to be called a salary supplement, whether it's going to be an extra reward, for successful work. Let them themselves, as such, say so, what is among other things the issue of dynamics itself. So it will be prescribed in the next few days, and the idea is to get into effect 1.12 and that some employers who have the opportunity to do so, already this year their employees' rewards, and in any event, they are all planning for the next gentleman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102384	Thank you. Now let's welcome students of OŠ Petar Preradovic from Pitomaca who are on... The gallery. [[Applause.]] Does the committee reporter perhaps want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102385	Thank you very much, Vice President, I'd like to take advantage of Mr. Petrov's presentation on behalf of the Most Club to request a break. Namely, he would explain the related observation of his colleague, Žagar, who opened the topic of planning, real planning because we see in the previous tax reform, it was announced that this would have a fiscal impact on revenues of about €800 million, something over €800 million. Now we've come into a situation to actually see on the income side of the incomes from the goods and services tax that we have 2 billion incomes. So that's where it came from, almost 3 billion differences in what you were planning. Now we see that, with this tax reform, looking at the profit tax, you are planning up to 3 billion to reduce, but looking at the next announcement of the budget, there further, increases according to the income item. Therefore, what we have actually had entrepreneurs, they expect when tax reform is carried out, to see it practically as a reduction in the revenue side of the budget. It's the only indicator they can sense. In this way, in fact, the question arises whether this tax reform is really reducing their expenditures, in general, or whether in future it will actually bring us only one new model, which will actually be used to raise tax funds. We see here that there are essentially disagreements, which certain colleagues have made, about those areas that have the lowest rates of development, where the lowest wages are, for example. Real estate traffic, in fact, will not be felt by this reduction that is projected from 4 to 3% where there is no real estate traffic, in fact it is so irrelevant what the percentage is, and also where the wages are untaxable, there these tax reforms will not be felt. We believe that this is an important moment, which we would explain, so that Mr. Petrov may have a better explanation in his explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102386	Of course, I'll give you a break, at least I think my colleague Petrov would explain it well himself, but either way, I'll see you at 11.20. It's 11:00. 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:20 A.M.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the first representative and vice president of this high house, Bozo Petrov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102388	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Reforms are by definition a major change in the way the system works, so what we have to discuss today in the Parliament doesn't really have much to do with reform. Tax reform is and discharge is very cleverly spread over a number of years, so we had the first part of 2017, so we are now discussing 2018, we are already talking about the third phase that will follow in 2019, their effects may be some in 2020, so I would congratulate on one good PR reform, because this can't be called another's. This government has only slightly rounded the top of a suicide-increasing line of tax and similar burdens from 2009 to today. Maybe just a little bit stopped unsustainable by economic activity is literally devastating, a rise in burdens. And despite this, everything you represent today, as you represented, Croatia remains much more burdened by the state than before the 2009 crisis. Now listen to this. When all the incomes of all types of taxes and contributions are covered at the level of the general state, the sums and the rates of GDP, the average burden today is by 2.3% more than in 2009, cca 8 billion kuna, the state is now taking more than people in 2009, with all your tax reforms, and in the meantime we have passed the recession, and I can unfortunately say that many in Croatia have not yet come out of recession, and you are taking 8 billion kuna more than in 2009, and you are boasting tax discharge. But unfortunately, that's not the worst thing, because we know we're in an infamous 12th place when it comes to the complexity of the tax system, the tax press. According to the Index of Economic Freedoms, Croatia is in 92nd place, on the Doing Business Board we have fallen 15 places since 2017 and we are now 58th, so we ask you what reforms are we talking about? According to the 2016 EUROSTAT data, the share of VAT in GDP is almost 14%, 45cca billion kuna. The example works in one Ireland is only 5%, and that same Ireland in the last quarter is growing for us, never reaching probably 9%. You're talking about the famous 2.8%, spending 4% more GDP because you're growing 2.8%. And in Croatia, the state bite in GDP is a record 46%, so I'll explain to the citizens, it's 151 billion kuna, somewhere, and that actually means that everything that Croatian citizens produce, everything that employers, entrepreneurs produce, the state takes away and spends 46% of it. In one word, we, tax bonds, fiscally consolidate state finances through the tax press, not the government through a serious reform investment policy. And I understand why you're doing this, because there's a way to fill up that gap of costs, because of the love only in the last year and a half, someone has to pay for it, and that's what citizens pay for, and you're making PR reforms. If today's share of the general state in GDP were at the level of 2009 and we are not a member of the European Union, we would not have a decline in public debt and GDP ratio, while on the other hand there would be a budget deficit between 14 billion and 15 billion kuna. So to boast fiscal consolidation as well as such tax discharges, I don't think it's questionable, and you will. I therefore say that the government is not sending us reform proposals, but rather some news in taxation that does not show the declared objectives, which should contribute to reducing the overall tax burden, improving the tax system, and increasing legal certainty for taxpayers. As for income tax, it is said that the tax rate for a particular population is reduced with the aim of keeping young people in the country and increasing salaries for qualified professional staff. Every tax discharge should be welcomed. Now one question for the citizens, do you know how many citizens are covered by this discharge? 13 to 14000 people in Croatia. And that's 13 to 14000 employees whose salary is 3 to 4 times the average salary. And out of that small number of employees, those who have 3 children and no more will even feel that their wages have grown. Therefore, there is a move to a more socially fair tax system that will contribute to the termination of the young people's emigration, which you want to achieve by raising your salaries by less than 5% to 1% of the total employees in Croatia. Magical. What can I tell you about this? Magical. Another provision, which has more significantly echoed in public, is the one on a flat-rate basis paying income tax for renters in tourism. A measure that is one of the categories of undefined, without purpose, without direction, without vision. an appropriate model must be found in view of the importance of tourism for the national economy. But the provision at this point represents an additional tax burden for the tenants in the tourism sector and this new part does not solve the problem, but increases the dubious concept of taxation. In order for you to have a meaningful solution, you first have to decide what are the goals? Is your goal to stimulate or destimulate the provision of private accommodation services. Do you want to distinguish families whose only choice of income is from those who have an additional income? If you place in the same category the activity of tourist rentals in large cities and developed tourist centres and the activities of some OPGs in rural tourism. I won't continue, I think it's quite clear that there is no direction, no goal, no strategy, no vision in this proposal of yours. But what I think is, I find it immoral to exclude it from a family tax relief system where children are not so lucky to live with their parents, but also by force of opportunity raise grandmothers or de facto and those families, where only one person earns income. And that's what you find in this proposal you're making. As for the profit tax, as with many Croatian laws, this matter relating to preventing the transfer of profits is not in formal legislation, but in its practice. Croatia's regulatory affairs could generally be considered very restrictive, but in the area of taxation of profits and profit extraction from the country, it is quite voluntary. Especially foreign multinational companies. This applies in particular to those companies, which did not come to Croatia with new investments, even with the creation of new jobs. So, in situations where favouring the attitude of Croatian tax collectors could be understood, so there is a pre-application of the above-mentioned directive in our legislation, regulations, e.g. the transfer prices, which serve that the related companies operate in such a way as they would have done if they were not linked, or, if they were not moving profits, more favourable jurisdictions for them. Those rules are, unfortunately, nobody's holding up today. And neither will the tax inspectors who will close the flower shop, the bakery, the fish shop, because of the lack of 10 kn in the register. This is not populism, this is your reality today, but it will not be so poor with Croatian branches, foreign companies, which, with their structure and business, instead of in the Croatian budget, transferred millions of taxable profits to Luxemburg, Switzerland or some other third country. So, having in mind such a real situation, and without provoking tax repression, such as is being carried out over small and micro entrepreneurs in our country, without real strategy, sustainable tax control, no application of European directives in our legislation will lead to a reduction in tax ejaculation, or a higher income of the state budget than the profit tax. As far as VAT is concerned, I have to say, unfortunately, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, one more of the bureaucratic offices, is called reformal, but below the surface, there is no such reform procedures. First of all... the press release is a 25% reduction to 24% since 2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Discount from 25% to 13% for meat, fish, fruit and vegetables. And according to the applicant's assessment of the reduced rate on those intentions, it will negatively affect the revenues of the state budget, amounting to 1.4 billion kn. I must conclude that this measure, unfortunately, shows a false social measure. It serves to embellish the image of the government. It serves beauty, so that the government turns out to care for citizens, takes care of socially sensitive citizens and entrepreneurs, and all experiences suggest that no social effects can be achieved by such measures, but the greatest benefit of these changes will be from citizens with high incomes, without fostering economic activity and GDP race. Proposing such measures only shows you that the government lost touch with the daily life of the average Croatian family. Potentially perhaps good purposes have been destroyed by bureaucratic approach and sublegal proposals and regulations. But what we can contact again, unconstitutional approach and problems, where the products to which VAT is reduced are selectively selected without any logically justified explanation. So I can say that certain proposals are ridiculous, so the bill on VAT is different whether it's a rabbit in the woods or a rabbit in the household. The villains would say it's important to make a rucksack that rabbit is less important. As far as the Contribution Act is concerned, it's just a special story. By changing the Law on Contributions, the government has begun, an undertaking to patch holes in health care. You're going to increase 1.5% for health care, you're going to leave 0.7% of the difference, and you're going to call it tax reform. Great. How much is 30, 40 kn average salary research, after you have implemented your famous tax reform, in one half year and see if the entrepreneurs eventually raised those 30, 40 kn. Well, it's more of a cost to write all that legal and raise the salary by 30, 40 kn than not. I mean, that's funny, you want the right reform to go back to VAT. I told you during your last presentation. Let the state be charged when the entrepreneur is charged. Kill the tax, but kill it the moment the entrepreneur gets paid for what he's produced. So where you'll be more stimulating for an entrepreneur but not you at this point charging from people regardless of when they deliver a service whether they get the money or not. It's important for you to charge yourself and then talk about you already having it in some up to 3 million kunas, small businesses are ministers up to 65 million kuna. Not everyone at all, neither micro nor small, small, especially entrepreneurs have the right to use this measure at all, you want the right to give up real reform and be solid with entrepreneurs if they can't be charged, you don't have the right to charge. You have nothing to finance this size of bureaucratic system, share cancellations, as far as I know it was worth measure 2 for 1, where you've lost that measure you have 2,700 new employees on account of whom, at the expense of taxpayers and those who have average Croatian salaries which due to your tax system won't grow at all. And what is interesting, just to return to you briefly on this law on contributions, this is unfortunately prescribed that absolutely all directors, members of company management, cooperative managers must, must account and pay contributions at a minimum of €5.213 gross wages regardless of the form of a company, founding capital or annual income. This is the amount of $1,902,75 per month only for contributions from the first day of the draft company at a time when no company’s income is available. What a blow this is to those who are just moving, who at this point have no income and don't know when they'll have it, but not you already hit the tax, let's just charge it right now. For the idea of starting a company, I'll charge you a tax, great. Someone who goes into entrepreneurship alone and opens J.D.O. for translation or for making web pages or for baking or selling muffins does not pay itself the first day of business gross of 5,213,00 kuna, does not pay not because he is a thief or tax evasioner but why there is no where. He doesn't apply for full - time work, not because he wants to break the laws, but because he doesn't have a full - time job, so he just opened up the company. You have an amazing level of not understanding the real market conditions, the world and the economy of the Ministry of Finance. Do you need to be told after this that calculating full-time contributions from the beginning will have a disastrous effect on micro and small entrepreneurship, on those who are just starting their jobs, and perhaps I should repeat it again, a little harder in some things you understand without offense. And what I'm only going to conclude for the end because I could do another 20 minutes, a fundamental economic logic proven countless times in practice says, low taxes lead to a broad tax base and it consequently leads to higher tax revenues and it is a win win combination for everyone, for the enterprise, for the state, for the population. The ruling set unfortunately decided the opposite direction, she decided to become Sweden first, and then hoped to create a tax base, and the matter goes the other way. First, he needs to be rich in low taxes and then become socially secure. Not implementing real economic reforms, insisting on the old and proven wrong model of growth will lead to a further decline of the Croatian economy and a continuation of the emigration of Croatian families. They'll leave your most educated, they'll leave because they'll have better salaries in every other country, and the rest of them will leave because they're losing a highly educated workforce. With brain drain, the economy loses its potential to engage in the economic and scientific flows of the 21st century. In the end, the state will be the poor state of cheap labour as your prime minister loves, according to our Prime Minister, there will be a state that will not have a modern industry of high value added and therefore high wages, but an old industry of low added value and small wages, and then it will not matter to you, nor to anyone in Croatia, what is the unemployment rate, because those who are employed will also work for pettys, but I will remind you, this is nothing weird, just you should do the damages to the Rules of Procedure, it is no wonder this constant, your Prime Minister said a year ago that he was asking us to comment on the so many departures of young people publicly on television, as he commented, so we fought, he struggled to make young people leave, he said the other day that investors were attracted in a way that we were very interesting to be the state of cheap labour force, and we are the state of cheap labour because you are paying those who overall are 1% in Croatia and already had high wages, but the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102389	Thank you, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure by the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. [[/Intruder: What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?]] The Rules of Procedure, because counterpart Petrov demeaned all MPs here in the assembly saying that we find it harder to understand, So I would remind him that I wouldn't answer him in the way he deserves, and I would remind him if this wasn't the office where he's in charge, and in that way he's experiencing all the patients. [[Intruder: Only you.]] If there were people here, MPs with their name and last name many of them have enviable successful scientific, cultural or any other careers and should talk with a little more dignity about colleagues. What he said, in the way he performed, speaks most of it, so it would be correct to apologize to us. If not, then give him a warning, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102391	Thank you. I estimate that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, but I appeal to all my colleagues that in their communications, in their expressions they keep talking and that they don't hurt anyone. ... You're running a session for me? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'll get a warning because you're talking from the bench. ... No, no, it's not the same approach and it's not, it's certainly not the same because it's not even a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We will now continue the debate, and on behalf of the SDP MPs, the time will be shared by respected Greek and Lalovac representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102392	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates and colleagues. I'm gonna concentrate on the one and only question that matters most to me. So, the question of all the questions is, will this tax reform, or this cycle of tax reform, to be precise, raise wages to the citizens or not? It's the only thing citizens care about. The state can act in this sense in two ways. The state can have a very direct impact on this wage growth, very directly and indirectly. So, some detour measures, where they will then expect some of the other actors in the country to act in a way that these workers profit from. And there is the key to the difference in what we as SDP represent and what the Government has proposed with this tax reform. So, the government went round the way expecting someone's will to be something for our citizens, people, workers, make, and we say, we want a second approach, we want a very concrete growth in our people's salaries and not just these 20 or 15 000 that are mentioned, so those with a salary of 18,000,00 kn, and so on, which is obviously going to profit something from this reform, even they won't profit much. So the maximum salary increase no matter how much she was 1.600,00 kn. I ask you what it means to a man of 40 or 50,000,00 kn means to that 1.600,00 kn in any sense. In terms of competitiveness, in the sense that it prevents it from going outside the Republic of Croatia, etc. etc., nothing. So even this measure is not so effective as to keep such people, therefore, educated, in good positions, etc. not to go from the Republic of Croatia to the outside. But let's leave it. I'm interested in the largest number of our citizens working, trying, and this reform isn't really going to make a significant profit because it simply talks about how, I don't know, informers, pharmacists and those professions, so engineers, that they're going to get a slightly higher salary with this reform, so they're going to stay in the Republic, too. So, the other day, HUP came out with a very detailed analysis of its ICT sector, so it pays in the ICT sector. And you know what he found as a result? That wages in the sector are on average for different professions within the ICT sector at the moment between 6.000,00 kn and 12.000,00 kn. 6 to 12, means neither near those 18.000,00 kn which are the limit of those workers who will not grow wages and those who will. Therefore, this basic goal, which has been persistently repeated in explaining this reform, will simply, unfortunately, not be achieved. Now, you see, in the whole situation, something happened that I can generally welcome, and that's this new measure at the last minute, which goes then to increase the untaxable part from £2.500,00 to €7.500,00 for certain so-called. Awards, bonuses, Santas, Easters, etc. However, it is again a measure in which the government does not participate, directly participates, let's say if someone paid something, then the government would not take the tax. But it doesn't pay off anyway, so the government won't save anything. So we can look at it that way. Now you see, after a few days of elation come some analysis, I didn't deal with them, but the journalists did, so the journalists say unfortunately it will be, so the entrepreneurs told them, it will be 1,000,00 kn, as before, and the third salary is waiting for better days. So that's some general conclusion that journalists, uh, pulled out of conversations with many obviously managers, company owners, etc. because it's simply a situation because it's left to them again whether they're really going to increase those rewards or not, and so, I would say, reward their workers. So there's no guarantee, there's no idea how many companies, no number of employees would possibly increase those rewards. So, again, only one likely fewer employees will profit, and most workers will not get much from that measure again. And now, of course, I have to say a few words because all the time we're talking here, I'm really trying to act like one, to always offer an alternative, some other option, some other view of this story, so let the citizens assess whether it's better, worse than what the government is offering right now. I think it's the best way and it's the only possible approach and the work of the opposition to propose alternative solutions, and that's why we have already proposed to go to this measure to increase personal deduction from 3.800,00 kn to 5.00 kn. Why? We've considered another option, which is to reduce taxation rates, for example. 24 to 20% and 36 to 30%, but we did resort to this second decision to increase personal deduction, because it would increase less wages to a lesser extent, and to a lesser extent, raise higher wages. And if you want it to be a principle of social democracy and approach to help those with a little less pay, and to put those with better salaries and a better standard at this point in time into another plan. Now what's the effect of that story, we heard here it's not possible but a large number of people don't pay taxes even colleague Curaj commented on it the other day so he said SDP doesn't exactly tell the truth so they would only raise salaries to people over 10,000 kuna which is not really true. No, a very simple bill says, if our employees don't have a abstention member registered on their tax card then every salary above 3.800 kuna brings something to this change, it means some 10, 20, 50 kuna, and then when you get to 5,000 kuna it's already 320 to 340 kuna increase, it's a very simple calculation. So the rate of 24% is applied to the 1,200 difference of kuna in the personal deduction, now there is no more and then there is still a cut to that, in Zagreb is 18% in another city is 10%, and when you add that, it is 320 to 340 kuna. At the annual level, it is therefore rising to cca 4,000 kuna, and that is part of the third salary that we are talking about only because the difference is that this third salary is safe for these workers and people compared to what is not safe and that depends exclusively on the employer whether he will reward his people or not, there is this key difference. So we here specifically allow workers to grow wages, and this is if it is, if it isn't, and that's the important difference. Now, you see, this way, according to our bills, wages would grow by somewhere between 550 and 600,000 people in Croatia, all depends on how many registered members, dependent family members you have. Now what's the cost, to be completely consistent with our proposal, what's the cost? It's a cost of at least 2 billion kuna, that's not a small cost to understand, but there is money, and I, if not going this proposal this year, believe me, you'll seriously think about it and think about it next year, so for 2020, and don't hurry up, don't hurry up with the reduction of the general VAT rate from 25% to 24%, kick it out of this bill proposal, leave yourself a reservation to raise your wages maybe in 2020, if not now, because I understand this year there are other burdens, there's Oil, there's 3 billion for Oil, there's that, but leave yourself room to do what we're proposing in 2020. And just one more thing, wise government, wise government would do with this step at this time, one very important thing for all of Croatia, but especially for people who are mentioned here this morning, teachers, nurses means healthcare staff and this furniture I would say to people with salaries between 5,500, 6,000, 6,500 kunas who really need to be helped very much at this time and dimming them precisely to go from Croatia, and as this step alone, this tax that I have proposed here would immediately lead to the rise of these salaries for the above 6%. Exactly, 5.5 to 6%, calculate for yourself and you will see, just a moment, just a moment now, if you add this promised increase to the base by 3% then it is already in one year the salary growth for teachers and health care staff by at least 9% immediately, even though you agree with them, or to trade unions, that in the next two years, 4% more wages will grow, you will see that these people will be satisfied. If I were you, I'd do it, I'd do it. And now where the money comes from, here's the answer and I'll end it. The 2 billion kuna is less for local self-government units, at this point 17% of income tax is allocated from income tax and goes to the Alignment Fund, this Alignment Fund should be paid back to local self-government units, which is slightly less than 2 billion kuna and thus covers almost total cost. Just laugh, calculate, look better, and you'll see that that's it. And from this non-reduction of VAT by 1%, you get 2 billion kuna going into the Balance Fund, which covers the cost, the cost of this tax measure. So this model is highly consistent, highly sustainable, and to be sustainable, I'm going to tell you for one more reason. You, my dear friends and colleagues, have done or are doing the same 900 million kuna work through 0.7% of contributions as the differences between the reduction and the increase you will simply spill, throw, disperse and even the HUP's said, ordered, it will have no effect on the economy and economic operators. So you already have 900 million reserves that you can use to increase workers' wages, not to waste it, but to allow people to actually feel it in their pocket. And another thing, 300 million or 250 that go for these 20 thousand or 15 thousand best standing, that's a billion and 200, that's a billion and 200 for nurses, for teachers and so on, and so on, so very little is missing the figure that this tax reform is already going in the way that I presented it here. You, i.e. citizens who listen to us, or teachers, nurses, and all the others, let them assess, whether what I'm saying here makes sense or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102393	Thank you very much. The respected representative Boris Lalovac will now continue, and in the meantime we welcome the students of the Sisak Professional School who are at our gallery. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102394	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. I'm going to fill myself in very briefly on a colleague of Greeks, this part of the income tax changes, is certainly the most interesting part of this whole, the whole package of these tax changes. Why? Because it actually concerns every Croatian citizen, how much they will actually be participating specifically in their salary hikes. And in fact, we had some experience from the past, and when, in fact, 2.3 times, we raised that level of personal deduction, you remember very well, first there were 1800 kunas, so the SDP's government raised from 1800 to 2200, then once again SDPs from 2200 to 2600, and then fellow Maric and HDZs from 2600 actually to 3800, and I personally supported it, and I said it was certainly a good direction to increase the personal deduction, which, in particular, will directly affect the consumption of Croatian citizens, and especially if we know that it's part of the GDP, which means, as some measure unit of success of government's work, the success of a particular economy, theirs, as... The basic unit of measurement, although we know that 60% is gross domestic product, refers to personal consumption, we know how important this personal deduction is, and how important personal consumption is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, this second part of the measures that the government has proposed, the VAT reduction, and here I must say, we must be honest, when not looking at this part, which is proposed by a fellow Greek, but just as you suggested, I can welcome it. I can say hello. Why? Because when you look at the environment in which Croatia operates, it means the environment of our neighbouring countries, as much as VAT is in Slovenia, as much as VAT is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as VAT is in Hungary, it is higher than in Croatia, however, all of these border places, and we know that one part of Croatian citizens live in these border areas, not only those who live, but those who today and these roads are much faster connected, we know that we can come in a few hours and buy cheaper food and certainly one part, every Croatian citizen who spends his income, who spends abroad, actually pours out and pays certain taxes in another country. So this part, when it's just being watched, by reducing the VAT to this particular, is, basket, which we hope will feel a reduction for Croatian citizens. Now, whether they feel it or not, we're going to see it next year, and we know that the largest part of the VAT that actually comes from these 48, 49 billion kunas, actually, when you analyze the industry, the largest part comes from the store. Most of it comes from the store. We have seen that certain and commercial chains that are competitive in the Croatian market, I hope, will try to reduce prices, however, there is another effect, which the Government unfortunately cannot and in the market economy cannot interfere in that part, the question whether or not that part of the market will absorb, that the price goes down, because we know that most of the absorption was, when it reduced certain prices, either when Croatia enters the European Union. During Croatia's entry into the European Union, and when that transit of these goods is simplified, simplified, and as regards the payment of the import VAT, as regards the total and communication, the transaction costs with the abroad, and we know that much of the imports are coming from abroad, there was pressure on prices, you know that in that part, it was poured into a particular section and deflation. So we will see what will actually be, what will be the effect, the effect, and that is why, in fact, a colleague of Greece has mentioned here that this effect is not known to spill over to the domestic budgets of Croatian citizens, and in these measures, by directly increasing personal deductions, not only did we propose, there is fellow Lovrinovic and Clubs, the ruling coalitions have continued to put pressure on the government to continue to increase that part of the personal deduction. But the question now arises here is what if all these measures that the Government has proposed don't actually give such a swing to that consumption, dispensing the income of the household, and that simply all of these measures, which I'm eating in part, gave effect, and gave some competitiveness to the Croatian economy, which if they no longer obtain such results as they did in the past. And then we're in a serious problem, because we've given everything we've had, to say the weapons we've had, to encourage the economy, to grow personal consumption, to increase income, and the measures of emigration, the measures of non-competitiveness on the Doing business scale, measures of the structural problems of the Croatian economy, not only Agrokor, Oilics or others, Petrochemia, and so on, which have now entered the privatisation process, I certainly support, because they were also part of the problem for the Croatian economy, we still have high transition costs on the Croatian budget. Unfortunately, we still have high transition costs, which were both burdens and former governments, and this government is unfortunately, because simply these processes are still, 28 years in the Croatian economy, still going on. And that's what concerns me, which concerns me, when all these elements that are positive and that will give, on the other hand, still these transitional costs are seen, are still not completed in the Croatian economy, we still know that shipbuilding is also a very important export component, industrial production, exports, not only of export services, but of goods, because we know that exporting services actually cover tourism, and these VAT changes have not been found in that part of the reduced VAT rate on catering and tourism, and we know that it covers a large part of the balance of payments deficits or covers through that one export service. So in one part I can support these measures what you're giving. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] However, we wanted to look at a much wider picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102395	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the club of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the Force will speak the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102396	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. There's a second reading in front of us. The third round of tax reform and how it started, perhaps by the end of the term of office of this government we will have 9 rounds, and regardless, with and without reform, many Croatian citizens have long lived in hell. In this, let's say, a three-phase tax reform has no significant difference compared to first reading. The nine laws that we are discussing today are, we have technical repairs, a little bit better these laws are in line with European regulations and directives, and that's that. Since there is no change, even we in the Living Wall can't change our mind from the first reading, which remains unfavourable, which means we won't vote for this, call, reform. We will not vote because the Republic of Croatia has the highest tax burden in the EU. We are second from the bottom to the economic standard, we are witnessing mass eviction and we would need a far more ambitious tax reduction than Minister Maric and HDZ, HNS Government, offers. Without some 5% discharge of GDP, there is no talk of essential reforms. We need a bigger step in the war of GDP, at least 5%. Finally, Minister Maric himself wrote in the programme that we will have a 5% GDP growth in 2020, and when you look at what it says now, it says we will have a 2% growth. Instead of growth, instead of real discharge, the government is offering us crumbs. The reduction in labour prices measured in mires, while the increase in salaries for the rich, according to policy-related politicians and managers. Individual VAT rates are introduced without any guarantee of a reduction in prices. Experience tells us that price reductions will not be, but some sectors of the economy will benefit, which will consider, among the VAT rates, a subsidy or state support. What the government offers as a price control solution, the government invites traders to honour, which is really very unserious and actually shows what kind of naiveness this is, in fact, a harmful policy. No matter how high the VAT rate will be on a particular product, we have to ask ourselves why in all neighbouring countries, literally everyone, the food prices are lower than ours? Why do our people, even those who are away from the border, go shopping abroad? Whether it's the VAT rate or the rate, or it's because it's suitable for import lobbys, which allows for the creation of various cartels and monopolies that are, therefore, unsupervised, who do what they want and charge prices across every border. When we talk about tax discharge, Minister Maric knows one thing very well, and it is that so long as tax revenues or budget revenues are higher than GDP growth that there is no talk of tax discharge, there is no speech. So, the state says we lower taxes by two billion, and at the same time collects, I don't know, seven billion taxes more. In order for there really to be a tax discharge, the state's revenues should be lower than GDP growth. Everything else just isn't true. And it's very simple mathematics. We see this already from the announcement of a new budget where it is clear that the expenditures of the state will be higher by as much as 15 billion kuna next year. And it would be good if these expenditures were spent on salaries and pensions, but in that part they were only used minimally, in one smaller percentage, while we see that there is funding for red tape and what kind of unnecessary and expensive projects such as the purchase of F16 aircraft, which is the question of whether they will ever arrive in Croatia. Instead, Minister Maric headed by his mentor, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, one of the 10,000 to 15 thousand which he moved from the state sector to the real sector to the real sector, he only employed 4,000 new civil servants for the last two years. So while Croatia's population is getting smaller and smaller year by year because of negative demographic growth, the cost of the state is increasing and the number of employees is also increasing as well. If that makes sense in a healthy brain, there is no, but in the HDZ government there is obviously, 300,000 people are expected to live in Croatia in the future, all of whom will be employed by the state administration. One of the main reasons why you're even going into this kind of reform besides pretending to do something is to patch holes in a health care facility that's literally a bottomless hole. So, the minister is now raising contributions by a billion and 300 million kuna, giving more than 1 billion kuna to the Ministry of Health, reducing VAT on medicines, increasing the price of cigarettes to give to health again, announcing an increase in health insurance, even announcing mobile taxes without at the same time giving any guarantee that these debts will stop piling up. He knows that health care is currently a debt of 8 billion, of which 2 billion kunas must pay urgently and he knows that if he had to pay it to undo all the effects of this tax reform. He also knows that the money given for health care is spent on purpose, purposeless, money spent on certain injuries at work, not on injuries at work, but on God’s own, asking you what. I repeat one more question to Minister Maric and the entire government to which you will spend the money from the contributions you make from the citizens, I ask you for an answer, which, in particular, is what this money goes to, of course, is going to pay the debts, who created the debts, whether someone will answer it, whether or not you know it yourself, and it is very regrettable that one minister does not know or hide the information from the public, since we see that in the government the general trend of hiding the data is then we do not have to be so surprised. What can we even say when we see the fact that Croatia in the European Union has fallen by the index of the health consumer index in just a year from 19 to 26. Do you have any resuscitation, rationalization, anything? Deep and courageous tax reform would be necessary among other things, and because all indicators say that we are less and less able to catch up with others in all other restaurants year by year. For example, on the competitiveness scale, Serbia, Georgia and Armenia have overtaken us. Armenia, Georgia, and you know Minister Maric that there is no paved road in Georgia, but you're way ahead of us on the competitiveness scale. On the regulatory business scale of 31.10. means 15 days ago Croatia sank again by 7 places, we fell from poor 77 places to 85 at the time of Minister Marić's term. In the category of starting jobs we fell in one year from 87 to 123 places watch out Croatia is 123 places, who is responsible for this? Who's to blame? Is it Mr. Lovrinovic's fault or is it the one who has the authority and runs the Ministry of Finance and runs the government? By the index of corruption we have fallen again and now we are in the rank of Saudi Arabia, be careful Croatia is in the rank of Saudi Arabia, can you imagine, is this information worrying you? Personally, I find Saudi Arabia the notion of a country that should be miles below Croatia, and we are with them in the same rank. So Minister Maric himself wrote in 2016 that he would reduce VAT to 23% except that he wrote that it would be GDP growth 5% if you respected that promise, you did not. If you've taken responsibility, you haven't, you're acting like nothing's happened, and that's the program, watch out for it, which is called credible. Do you know what the general meaning of a credible give you a lexicon of Croatian language and read what it means authentic. It probably means you're doing what you're saying, it's credible, but you keep doing the opposite of what you're saying, so then call that program untrustworthy, that's his real name. What you've broken down there, you'll open 180 thousand jobs, some agrobank, you'll ban actions or the Prime Minister says there's no migration, and all of Croatia sees with its own eyes that there are illegal border crossings on the daily basis. And then these same ministers like Minister Maric come here to the Parliament and they say you from the Living Wall are populists, and they themselves are celebrating the worst pulsism possible. They lie to people to win the election, that's your policy. And you will now normally say, ah from the Living Wall you can only criticize, and you can't offer solutions. I'll tell you what we'd do and what we'd give you our hands for, I'm telling you right now to clear it up. . /. We'd give you our hands if you'd just raise 500.00 kn right now, if you made sure there was a drop in prices because there was room for better tax and contribution charges, so if you were to fight the gray economy, against tax evasion, against paying on hand. And what did you do? Do you know how much you've increased the minimum wage of this tax reform? For zero kunas in three circles. How much did you increase the salary of a man who has grossly 5.00 kn in three times? You know how much for? For 140,00 kn, three reforms. You wouldn't believe it, but to a man with a salary of £20.00 in gross, you increased your salary in the third year of office for all together €360,00. And how much did you increase yours? You say you're nothing. Your salary will be higher now by 1.500,00 kn than at the beginning of the term of office. How much higher is the salary of the president of the Republic of Croatia? 3.300,00 kn. How much bigger is Andrei Plenkovic's salary? 3.800,00 kn. How much longer is Governor Vujcic's salary? 4,000,00 kn. So you knew how to calm yourself down. When you have to give it to yourself, then you know what to do, when you have to give it to the citizens, then you apologize for these, those reasons, technical, like this, we give as much as we can, etc. How much do they collect the cost of living on a daily basis? Prices rise, I don't know, 30% in 5 years, wages rise 3% and then you say we increased 3%, and with those 3% can buy far less from year to year, Croatian citizens can buy less and less. You should raise your income, that's what we would support and what we expect of you. Beneath the average salary and the lowest salary, not the rich. What brings a concrete increase in wages to the rich? Nothing, they don't want to move out anyway, they're happy. If they want to raise their wages, they'll always find ways. People who have salaries 20.000,00 kn, 30.000,00 kn, will introduce bonuses anyway and use the official car, uses the official phone, has a warm meal, has paid all possible supplements, costs, whatever he needs, I don't know, specialist reviews etc., his salary raise is not crucial. And that unfortunate 13th salary you are now introducing, and most Croatian citizens can only dream of it. It is not a measure that will significantly change the state of society. What interests the Living Wall, we are interested in abolishing parafiscal burdens such as cuts, real estate taxes, re-explication of documents, payment of HRT fees, compulsory membership in HGK, which are all kinds of measurements, skills, fees and all sorts of nonsense. We want to solve Swiss cases, overpaid interest cases, too high banking margins, we want the directors to be lower, we want more pensions, and they can't be obtained through the third pillar that you're talking about in this manner, and even less through the second pillar, but only through a strong economy and a cheap and efficient state, fighting the gray economy and above all corruption. Without that change that the Republic of Croatia expects, which Croatian citizens expect, will not be. And he knows it eventually, and Minister Maric himself. It is clear to him that growth is slowing down, and although it is now the lowest in all countries in the environment and that this projection that he made will not be realised by 2.9%. He knows that. Here's what I'm saying because he doesn't have the guts to say it. The only thing that is growing right now is personal consumption, but there's a problem because it generates more imports than domestic production is encouraged. She slowed down industrial production for a year, a public debt exploded. Other pension pillars and health problems generate inconspicuous consequences. With its inaction, especially in the case of the Oilics, the government has destroyed any hope of economic recovery. And I was saying, there is a thank God, a phonogram. In February of this year, there will be an oil bankruptcy, and then what do we have? Minister Maric, the president, comes, I don't know who, so he says we didn't know anything about it, so what didn't you tell us? And I don't know, I ripped my throat out after this pay phone, I took five breaks, I don't know what I was saying, this one, what's the situation there. You've been waiting for a strike, you've been waiting for a cancellation order, and now you've got five billion kunas to pay. Whose account? At the expense of all of us. Each of us must now give, I don't know, 20, 30 EUR, 50, how much, to pay a debt that might have been avoided. And what does Minister Maric do now? He withdraws his last card he still has, which opens up the budget deficit even though he knows it's not the solution because the deficit will ultimately increase the government's debt further. And that's why he wants to leave. He wants to get off a sinking ship. The ministers are harassing him with their personal desires, with greed, with the desire to use the budget to achieve their personal ambitions, but without it Minister Maric knows that he is following the fall and is therefore looking for a way out in Agrokor, Adris, the Atlantic, I don't know where, because at least he seems to want to go as a winner, not as a loser whose career has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102397	The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, in the name of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102398	My colleagues and colleagues, the few of you who are here, during the debate on these very important laws, at least this is how we stress all this time behind us, when these laws are being analysed, when they are being discussed in public. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, I will present several of our views and finally some further proposals for the future. When we discuss here, of course, everyone comes from their position, everyone comes from their own political group, some come from the position, some from the opposition, and that way we can always see the debates that are going here. But somehow you should always look to try, though more realistically to look at what is proposed, what the government proposes, which comes before us, here in the assembly benches, in the parliamentary debate, to try to find in it, to say mistakes, to offer some improvements. Unfortunately, we here often often, as such, discuss very important legal proposals, not actually as about them, but rather discuss some general things, which often come down to some individual, perhaps individual, individual accounts with individual individuals. The fact is that, since the beginning of this government and this parliamentary majority, there has been a trend in tax discharge, both citizens and the economy. No one can argue with that. That's what the numbers say, you who are economists, who are more of a number-reader, you can support that much easier. The fact is, too, that this government has been affected by a whole series of waves, those tsunamis of waves, we can say, which are caused by some reckless decisions, by previous governments. And it's really illogical for me, that here today, individual, I say to a certain, ministers of that time, from the Government's corn, demagogues speak of amendments to these laws, which actually correct what they did. They're raising taxes, they're raising taxes, trends are more negative, now that they're going on discharges, when trends are improving, now these same people are attacking that improvement. And they're creating a picture in society that's really negative. I think it's at least incorrect and that at the very least it can offend the citizens, because I don't really believe that people forget things so quickly. Among the 2 readings, between the first and second readings of these amendments to the law, these tax laws, there have been visible improvements. So I am absolutely glad that the government has found a solution to increase the non-taxable amount of salary allowance, which can now be made possible for each employer, i.e. enables the law to be passed, so that it can pay literally 600 kn per month, more to its pay allowance worker, without tax burden. Well, it's not that small, let's face it, it's not that small and it's not some insignificant increase. Let's put it in some environment where now, in the problems that have come from shipbuilding, from the Uljanik and the Third May, and in view of the real situation, I think it was the maximum possible at that moment. That simply for these reasons, it was no longer possible to make these problems. And that's one effort, which was made, well done, good to go towards people, towards citizens, according to their pockets, according to their wallets, so they can feel it. Now there's a move on the employers. Now employers have the opportunity that the government has given, to fight for their workers, to maybe make a little less profit, to give a little more to people, to have a bigger profit in the future tomorrow. If we add a reduction in VAT rates to this new palette, so to speak, the product, then we can really say that this third change of tax laws has definitely filled out additionally and will fill out the home budgets. In particular, this section is related to the reduction of VAT rates for all types of medicines, which is a particularly good shift and assistance primarily for older people, since, of course, older people are more realistic and sicker and use significantly more services and use significantly more medicines. What everyone's wondering, what everyone's talking about, is whether traders will lower the prices of silent products or not. Realistically, we saw a lot of things, there were attempts to cut the VAT rate, there was a situation that it didn't feel very good on that end-user, that it remained. I'm thinking that in the first three months of the next year when these laws come into force, we should definitely do an analysis of that price reduction based on a reduction in VAT rates. If it happens that traders do not reduce the price of the product or that perhaps some manipulative activities as commercial practice goes on, I do not attack traders, it is normal in the whole world to get prices up first and then go down a little bit, so it turns out that they are down, that something like that would happen, unless there is a significant decrease in the price of the product whose VAT rates are reduced, then you really need to think about one real tax reform in a way that really sees how much VAT is in total less if you look at all the rates of reduced VAT. How much would it be to reduce the total VAT rate and to reduce the retailer to the same VAT if it did not already end up where it should end, and that is to say in the citizens' pockets back to the rate, and then to reduce the amount that would be at differentiated rates, and then one part of that VAT can be left to say in some percentage which would then address the question of maybe some contributions, some pay burdens to increase people’s wages in the end. Because the fact is that until there is a real wage increase, while not those half a million people who have salaries in Croatia are less than 5,000 kuna net that we will find it difficult to keep workers in jobs wanted in developed countries. Here the other day was that one article about the needs of Germany where I think of the million and 200 workers they will need, which is planned to be over 60% are mid-professional workers, meaning probably masterly some crafty, crafty occupations which are already missing in Croatia and which are in fact mostly in those half a million people who have salaries below 5 thousand kuna. I am convinced that the government will continue to find solutions to increase wages, how to make further discharges, how to improve the social picture of society, how to enable citizens to be more satisfied. I'm looking forward to that part, and I'm going to do it again because I said it in my first reading, the debate in the first reading of the reduction of VAT on children's diapers. I went a little bit to analyze and talk to those who know the most about it, so I pulled out the data that I want to read to you right now and they're related to the cost of equipping the newborn. So the basic thing to do, a bed with a mattress of 1200 kuna, a bed linen with additions of 600 to 700 kuna, bottles and cups of 100 kuna, cosmetics, that basic 150 kuna, a cart of 1000 to 5000, a baby pillow for carrying 200 kuna, a diaper 40 kuna package, a box of 40 kuna, a stocking of 30 kuna, a cap of 20 kuna, when all of this is combined with 4000 and some kuna. Basically. We have a reduction in VAT rate now will be on baby diapers, we have... on baby food, part of baby food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it would be necessary in future time, given the problem of demographics that Croatia has to really consider in the next stages of tax reform that it is literally going to reduce VAT to all child supplies. Because simply when we add it all together it's a really big amount of money, I'm not going to say the cost because children can't be the cost, but it's a huge amount of money that parents have to do at the moment, so to equip the newborn. Of course, with that part, we always talk about saving lives in rural areas, we talk about the OPGs, we talk about agricultural production, we talk about food production. The reduction of VAT rates on these live foods now going is a sure step towards helping and preserving domestic production. In my first reading, I suggested that producers, farmers, pig producers be allowed legally to have the same thing as importers, which is the transfer of tax obligations. I received an answer and an explanation from the ministry that this is not possible because of the EU directive. Now I'm going to connect what I just said and this right now. In 2016, when we discussed the first stage of tax laws, I proposed a reduction in VAT rates on children's diapers. I was then told that it is not possible because of the European directives. I am glad that it is possible, however, and that, after due consideration, the ministry has seen that countries in the environment despite European directives have reduced VAT rates on children's diapers. I am now asking myself a question and I call on the ministry to re-election these laws to analyse whether, in spite of European directives, EU countries are in any way taxing their pig producers and to do the same if it is possible for us not to see some countries doing it again in two years, and we are not because they are different from the European Directives. Last time there was a debate in the first reading, I set a concrete example of what Italy is doing. So, I'm talking about legal solutions, tax laws helping domestic production, I'm asking the really ministry to re-analyze the situation in the surrounding countries, I repeat, so that we don't find out afterwards that the European directives prescribe something more looser and different from what we give ourselves and what we tell ourselves. I'll be back to this amount of non-taxable extra. When we had discussed tax laws before and at informal meetings and talks and in conversation with entrepreneurs, and on the basis of their proposals alone, I suggested that there be an increase not even at 7.5, but at 10,000 kuna, which would be and how well it was as the possibility of 13 salaries or a monthly allowance or Christmas bonus and a regression for the annual vacation and the resurrection, but to increase that 7,500 I say as I said is optimal and realistic and it is acceptable for us. For these reasons, primarily for these reasons and for these new additions that they are and because of the situation as it is today, I say that our club will support these amendments of the law but we will not be satisfied and will not practically stop pointing, warning, speaking and asking for a solution to increase salaries for the most vulnerable groups I repeat for those half a million Croatian citizens who have salaries below 5,000 kuna. I know that this is impossible to resolve by amendments and only by amending tax laws, but there are many things that can be done and we leave it in the task with the belief that, on the basis of so far, the activities carried out by the Ministry and the Government will be one target group of citizens who are of particular interest to us and will soon go to additional new, new improvements legally with this goal, to come to the goal of making people pay more to those who have the least income. In what way, and yet in what way does this disbursement come from some of the contributions, is it any other stimulation that is definitely the thing that we should suggest except that the Ministry of Finance propose, to propose the Government, because it is part of the job that is therefore in the domain of that part of the state administration, and we are here to suggest, in some ways, to help, to propose, to add, to explore, to look for, and to ask for something like this to be done. And with that I will end this debate on behalf of our club, I will repeat what I have started the trend in these last 2 years of this government and this parliamentary majority is the tax discharge and reduction of tax pressure, and it is absolutely present in these changes, and I really don't see any reason why, in addition to these additions, between the first and the second readings, these legislative proposals are not proposed, and I suggest to the Government and the Ministry that they continue and that they further strengthen that part to absolutely turn to citizens, of course and employers, because one without another does not go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102399	Thank you very much, now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the time will be shared by the respected representative Grozdana Perić and representative Ivan Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102400	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates and ministers who are probably hungry, I can't help thinking that those who ran fiscal policy and were members of some previous governments that they couldn't actually see the integrity of this package and that they couldn't honestly and honestly say that the shifts were visible. It's always a good opposition that says what's wrong and says what's good, and those solutions that come out of sleeves without basic data parameters, whole analysis can't be taken for something that's measured by more than they've shown in some previous times the way they've dealt with it, and then the units of local self-government bought under 20-30 million kuna by a feather move, they haven't shown any good will to refund in any way and make up for everything that they've lost, and this government has done and does, and we who have witnessed it very well then know and the consequences and feel long and still feel in the units of local self-government. So when we talk about this tax package, then we have to say that the integrity of 2016 and the application of 16 laws since 1.1.2017, and then from 1.1.2018, it is evident that everything happened in that period and it is also evident that the figures are not lying because, as we see, after 6 or 7 years, the state budget at the end of 2017 reached an surplus of 2.7 billion kn and that is something that has to be recognised that among other things, the government's work which, apart from these tax interventions and changes in the law, has done a lot of things on the spending side and has made sure that the duties that occurred in the previous years, when the tax rates, that is, when the interest rates were much higher. Now, this government has made a way to refinance them, because the favourable moment has been given interest rates, as well, obligations towards the road sector and all of this has gone beyond long-term obligations, thus reducing the pressure on the expenditures of the budget itself and thus allowing certain surpluses to be made. When you speak equally of health care, then I witness the effort being done there, there is a fact that debts have been accumulated for years, not these two, but 5, 6 and 10 years and over, that certain ad hoc resolutions have been carried out, and then there has been no consideration of expenditures in a way that these expenditures are reduced into sustainability frameworks. Now, on a monthly basis, both the KBCs and the KBs and the general hospital, the county hospital, are being monitored for spending and rationalising the system, and what they can certainly say is that the obligation to the pharmaceutical industry has been reduced, and then it has been reduced to over 900 days in some hospitals, which in some cases has been over 900 days. There should be an open and clear statement, all of this resulted in costs, i.e., that all these suppliers calculated their margins far greater than they should have been. All this work with this package of laws, it's actually done that first, one way to reduce that obligation to the current state, let's say in the health care itself, but also, to carry out a very high cost control at each individual hospital. At the mid-term of this year, an excess of 1.6 billion kn was achieved, which I say again, this impact that is not done properly, it would collapse very quickly. We need to remind ourselves that it's for example. profit tax is reduced to 12% for the large 18th, and that in that previous package, VAT on municipal services has already been reduced and personal deduction has been increased, which has actually led to increased personal consumption. And then I find it even more unclear how some, colleagues, can't understand that this particular personal consumption continues to generate and grow and that our real and real GDP growth is up to 3% and that all what some serious finance minister and the serious government can offer then, as a salary increase, is exactly that 3%. She can't commit to something she doesn't have cover for. Far from any of us wanting much more, it's natural and human, but we have to frame ourselves in those possibilities that are possible. At the same time, when you look at the lower taxes, the revenues of the budget have been growing, which is actually proof that these smaller taxes mean a more active and more successful economy, more consumption, a better standard. So over 60 billion more kunas were collected, 60 billion more revenue, which is 3% more than the previous year, while tax expenditures were only 0.8%. When we add that income tax is entirely omitted to local and regional self-government units, then we see that the attempt to decentralisation itself has actually shown its result, because it is precisely these units of local self-government that have achieved an surplus of more than 1.7 billion kn last, by the end of June of this year that around 300 million kn is projected. If we look at all this leading to a better credit rating and a decrease in public debt, then we see that the debt found in GDP from 84% in 2015 was reduced to 74% in 2018 and in that sense it cannot be said that it has not been done very much. If we look at the correlation between the economy, the employees of the state, then it is clear that every businessman wants to rationalise its costs, but wants to have a stable environment, they must also have a favourable environment in which they will have a satisfied employee. In addition, the state must take care of both social welfare and health, education and other public needs. When we look at the law that happened only to changes in value added tax, then I have to say that, the value added tax is 47.6 billion revenue of the annual budget, which in 2017 was as much as it was, and then we have to say, when looked at since 2015, and even before, it is actually growing nominally. But it's growing just to increase consumption, even though it's making it easier to help the population. And it's one of the important generators actually GDP growth. Here it is stated in the Law itself and the reduction of the rate that will take place in 1.1.2020, to 24%, because it is actually a request that the government has made to itself, in one of the priorities and promises in its programme. Therefore, it is very important that the VAT rate is reduced selectively, i.e. that in some ways, the product groups that are most important in the household, that they contribute to better total consumption or more consumption, thus allowing prices of these products to be reduced, and I believe that they will also happen in retail. There have been a number of changes and compared to the entrepreneurs themselves, and this is about a value threshold of 400,000 for pre-taxing personal cars, vessels, aircraft and so on, all of which is what generates further consumption, but here, when we look at the sales tax of real estate, we see that, there is a proposal for reduction from 4 to 3%, we see that regardless of the tax on real estate sales, it has actually increased its overall performance, and that means that it is trying to regulate relations and fix the land-marking situation, and therefore it should be greatly welcomed. As far as excise duty is concerned, I will hurry here because my colleague Shucker will not get anything in his, as far as he's concerned, we welcome that, in fact, this way will increase the right and institute of recognition of the excise refund, because it allows that part of the carriers that had non-erable lines in this way will retain part of the lines and, in fact, we will allow students and students to have safe transportation. I'm going to take the rest individually, and here I am, anyway, and we're going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102401	Well, thank you very much, but the Honorable representative, Ivan Shuker, will now continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102402	Thank you very much. A very interesting topic, a lot of us in the Assembly, but when we talk about this topic, then it is very interesting to say that things should not be taken out of the context of time and space, tax changes have their own clear goals. On the one hand, to leave as much income as possible for citizens and entrepreneurs, on the other hand, to reduce some indirect taxes, to make certain products more accessible to certain target groups. And if we look at it that way, then anyone can make their own concrete suggestions that we haven't even heard today. However, given that the next 10 days are followed by discussions on budget rebalancing and budget for 2019, and guidelines and projections 2020-2021, I think we need to put these tax changes in context as well. For the simple reason when we talk about the non-taxable part of income, then let's see how much the Croatian citizens pay tax at this time, of 2 million 834000 Croatian citizens who receive some income, the million 830000 are not affected at all with tax scissors, or employees of 931000. On the other hand, since we're talking about changing the Law on Contribution and amending the Tax on Income Act here, let's just take a look at what one average salary is burdening, how much tax on income and taxes, and how much tax on contributions, so you'll see that one average salary is charged somewhere between 8 and 10% income tax and tax, and 90% is with contributions. But when we go into the budget and look at what should be financed from these contributions, then we have a minus 20 billion. When we turn that into a VAT rate, that means that the general VAT rate, if we didn't have that big, big hole, could be less than 10 percentage points. So, this is our Croatian reality and in this Croatian reality, the logical thing is that the Ministry of Finance and the Government is trying to create a policy that, because the budget is ultimately the strongest leverage for economic policy management, so to create a policy in some way to ensure more income for citizens, to encourage the economy, now the question is, how much does it work, and when, unlike the Ministry of Finance, others propose, then they catch something and suggest it. Here today, colleagues from the SDP have proposed that the non-taxable part should be increased. Okay, that increase in the non-taxable part costs 2 billion kuna. Income tax is the original income of the local self-government unit. So we'll take that to local self-government units. How are we gonna make it up to them? Not at all. Not at all. We've seen that movie three and four years ago. But look, it's legitimately right, and I respect that. And it is correct that as the strongest opposition club they have suggested something because then we can discuss something. But the government didn't stop at this. That's why I said in the reply to the minister's income tax is the most important thing that will be regulated by the regulation, which is this increase in this expenditure that is not treated by income, is not taxable from 2.5 to 7.5 thousand kuna. And basically there opens up the space for employers to just those who are out of tax scissors to raise their wages and pay some extra pay, that's a fact. And that's something that's simply Croatian reality. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, we're saying that those who have 20 grand and something else will increase their wages. To them employers if they want to pay some amount of 3 or 4 thousand kuna, they will pay them no matter how untaxable they are but to those who are on the verge of minimum wage or slightly above minimum wage, employers can very hard to pay off and you know why? Because I can't pay more. I remember out there in 2008, in 2009, when the minimum wage increased, so when a certain group of industries came in a few months later, the requirement to shut them down because if they paid the minimum wage in a few months, they wouldn't be able to work at all. That's the problem. It's another problem to talk about in some other context. Another thing I want to say when we talk about the context of time and space, the cost of boating guarantees is going to be 2 billion in this year and something next year is going to be a slightly smaller amount. Now look that the structural problem that we all knew was happening is not the burden of the budget, you could think about something else. Whether structural reforms should have started from 2012 on here and probably wouldn't have happened because simply someone if he's making losses if he's working on the same principle he'll create them in infinity, he can't make, stop losing if he works in the same way. That's why it was a shipbuilding restructuring program that cost us nearly 12 billion kuna in 2010. Mandatory the following governments to spend the next four or five years in the budget out as much as... 600, 700 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But look, it didn't happen, and we now have to set aside 2.5 billion kuna in the 2018 budget. We must single out and that is the context of the time and space in which the minister proposes these tax changes. And now that I'm only two, three things I want to point out. One is that the seasonal job tax 12% if it wasn't proposed would be the whole hangar, no one suggested. In profit tax, what has not been charged in some past times is shown as income, for this amount can be reduced, in fact increase the costs and reduce the base of the profit tax, contributions, clearly with this way the finance minister and the government are ordering, we will give the health care more money but we expect them to be restructured and to do something on the spending side, that this system will finally be sustainable. 'Cause look at the detachment from the treasury obviously didn't bring what it was meant to be. The rest in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102403	Thank you now for returning to our topic today's points about which, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, a respected representative of Tulio Demetlika will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102404	I would like to begin by stressing that we in our IDS Club, PGS, of course are for employees to have higher salaries, that our entrepreneurs and businessmen have lower tax burdens, to encourage consumption, to increase living standards for citizens and to have a more socially fair system. But the key question is how much is it going to be with this so-called. By tax reform, whether we are going to charge enough the economy and entrepreneurship with a basic goal of creating assumptions as first for higher wages, secondly for retaining and attracting labour, give God and for returning those who have gone and for attracting new investors. Whether demographic stability and economic growth of the Republic of Croatia will be achieved, we find it difficult, very difficult because we think that these amendments proposed by the tax law package are insufficient and as such will not be effective to the necessary extent. It was necessary to make a stronger step in this direction, this is just one small step to praise the government for having implemented reforms, but there is no real tax reform. When we talk about the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, I must first refer to the increase in wages with which the Government is greatly praised and which most of our citizens will not even feel. It's even funny to me to talk about an increase in wages for example. The average salary of $6,352 kuna will be increased by 31 kuna and a minimum wage of $4,000 will increase by 17 kuna. We can trust everyone together to agree that this is a really small amount. The question I must certainly ask is why it did not go with the dispensation of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and not just those with high incomes, of course the Government claims that the discharge was going towards everyone, but we know that it is not true. Because what does disbursement or salary increase mean if it is insignificant and has virtually no effect? At a time when more and more people are leaving our country, it is evident that laws were to be passed that would have had a greater impact on the lives of our citizens, i.e. to prevent daily departures to Ireland, Germany, Austria and other promised countries. An increase of 30 kunas that can buy a kilo of sardines will certainly not prevent someone from leaving Croatia. This time, the state has shown too little hearing for its citizens who still have difficulty living. The expected tax reform should have prevented young people from leaving first. The labour market in the last few quarters is characterised by a reduction in the unemployment rate associated with faster economic growth, as well as the eviction of labour to EU countries with higher average salaries. The current situation is that the Croatian economy can provide jobs, we are witnessing that the businessmen are looking for workers, but this tax reform is not able to secure incomes that can live in the Republic of Croatia with dignity. I will note that we at our club agree with the proposals of the Croatian Employers' Association and I must express my regret that you did not have enough hearing for them since they made very many remarks as well as quality proposals. I'm going to give just one senseless example of where you're making your differences again, and I'm going to dare say discrimination, and it's about the unburdened payment of workers' accommodations. We agree with their proposal to allow the untaxed payment of accommodation not only of seasonal workers in tourism, but also of that workforce that works throughout the year in all activities, I think of those who move from other counties to another, for example. from Slavonia in Istria, but in all jobs especially at the deficit, so do not create these differences and create the same conditions for those working in tourism, agriculture, construction or industrial production. The businessmen also expect greater redundancies that the current gross amount can increase net income, because when we talk to the businessmen and when we ask them about this bill, then they say that Tulio will grow to me as a pay manager, but the companies will remain nothing so that I can raise my salary to my workers, and that is why I ask you the following questions. While the minimum wage is just a little more than 3,000 kuna in what way i.e. how exactly do you plan to keep the workforce in the Republic of Croatia, how much will it be to raise the minimum wage without additional burden on the employer? What impact will this reform have on the state budget and what impact will this reform have on local budgets? I asked these questions because we believe that this whole tax system reform has fallen again, and I will say a good part to the burden of local and regional self-government. These changes and additions take money from our citizens from social, education, health, sports, culture, which means reducing incomes intended to meet the needs of local citizens. For this loss of financial resources, you did not provide for compensation measures from the state budget but very cleverly transferred the ball to local administrations and opened the possibility to raise a specific flat tax per bed or accommodation unit in order to meet the fiscal needs to keep the standard achieved. And here you are making a difference again, now between the continental part of Croatia and that coastal part of Croatia, because I am now asking the question of how will that one be, for example. in Slavonski Brod, set up this flat tax if, for example, there are no beds for or accommodation units for tourism. Our recommendation to the ruling is to start implementing reforms a little more at the heart of the state's income, as the European Union recommends, rather than constantly on the incomes of the local self-government unit, which could really be a balanced development in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. We have been asking in our club for years to finance units of local and regional self-government to decentralize our municipalities and cities to have a constant and secure source of funding, not to depend on the central government over and over again. I repeat the new tax reform of the local self-government unit, i.e. citizens, will be suspended in certain projects, services and meeting their own needs, I will repeat the social, sports, culture, education and health. To compensate for losses, no compensatory measures were offered but imposed on local self-government units to increase certain local taxes. Unfortunately, this tax reform will also be a great burden for our municipalities and cities because 210 million kunas of these laws and an additional 100 million kunas of real estate tax will be taken away from cities and municipalities. Mr. Minister, on several occasions today, but in your changes as well as certain members of the HDZ Club, you said that income from income tax was the percentage income of the local self-government unit. When the Law on the financing of local self-government was passed, we also discussed on the Committee, and we believe that the statement is not correct, because the defined way in which the share of the tax is distributed for municipalities and cities is 60%, for counties 17%, that is 77%, while 6% for decentralised functions and 17 for fixed balancing. So please don't deceive the public because it shows that local self-government units go 77% and the remaining 23% by the formula that you have defined. We then suggested, and you could accept, and you did not, that our proposal for a truly 100% income tax revenue goes to municipalities, cities and counties and that 23% compensate from the state budget i.e. from VAT. Well, then that would be a real contribution to decentralisation. In addition to income tax and other tax laws proposed under the tax reform, their application to local regional self-government units does not give a much better scenario. The announced reduction in real estate tax from 4% to 3% will have quite a negative impact on the budget of units of local self-government, mostly in the area of those municipalities and cities where real estate is the largest. With this legal solution, municipalities and cities with greater potential for real estate transport will lose millions of dollars. I believe that it is far more appropriate for our citizens to return the provision of a law that would free a person who first purchases a property and thus resolves his living issue from paying taxes. I think that provision would make it the most easier for young people. If you still do not accept such a proposal, I propose to introduce a 1% priority rate for our citizens who buy the first real estate and thus resolve the housing issue in the area of the local self-government unit where they have a long-term residence. Also, I would like to point out another extremely important thing, which is that the said reduction goes to the largest part of the foreigners, especially in the coastal cities, which will achieve an even greater savings or a better word of income for selling or pre-saleing real estate. They wouldn't mind being exactly like that under the supposed "resellers of real estate" signs and increasing that rate, so make it a compensatory measure for that difference for ours by 1 to 1%. I must note that by reducing the rate of real estate tax, the inequality between different parts of Croatia is again only increasing, instead of working on the undeveloped and poorly developed areas reaching those more developed areas to further advance towards European standards of development. And to conclude, I must also express my regret that this package of laws unfortunately did not give us real tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102405	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, on behalf of whom the respected representative, Rechimer Varda, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102406	Dear Vice-President of Croatia, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, the topic is very serious, important for all citizens and businessmen of Croatia but there are very few of us in the Assembly, but this does not mean that we do not have to state the position of our clubs, if you want a personal opinion. As regards the Proposal for a Law amending the income tax law, I would like, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party Club and the Reformists and the Independents, to express the satisfaction to initiate the disbursement of salaries that should result in higher incomes, of course, especially those highly qualified staff, which would result in a positive impact on the halting of the outflows of particularly young people, especially the eviction of people, particularly highly educated who are the basic levers and drivers of economic development. Of course it is our wish and that we will be pushing for a minimum wage increase and salary increase, as we have heard today from teachers, teachers, nurses. However, from the point of view of the reflection of the bill on the budget of local self-government as well as in the case of the Real estate tax proposal, unfortunately, I have to find that there is a burden on the reduction of tax rates, i.e. the burden on the budget of local units of self-government. In fact, we should not forget that the quality of life of citizens with as much income as possible, of course, is being maintained in both the way and the quality of life in cities and municipalities that are in charge as units of local self-government. It doesn't matter how many kindergartens we have and what their prices are, it doesn't matter if we have enough schools, an institution for the elderly, it doesn't matter what quality we have or expensive public transportation, what infrastructure, environment, air. It doesn't matter what kind of infrastructure we have in culture, health sports, entrepreneurship, tourism. This should all be provided by local self-government units. Through the income tax law, we will reduce income to local self-government units. Through the Law on Real estate Tax and you yourself pointed out that about 100 million kuna goes to the burden of the budget of local self-government, so the income of local self-government is reduced. But you're saying that no compensatory measures are provided but that local self-government in the end line will bring some kind of flat-rate tax on beds and on camp accommodation. So on the one hand, we increase the salary, on the other hand, we reduce the income of local self-government units as far as I understand. And then this same local self-government on the burden of those same citizens to whom all these services should be provided will increase the cost from hollow to empty. From hollow to empty. So we're holding, so we can't be basically against, against pay increases, that would be crazy, but I think we should either find compensation measures or change the law on funding local self-government units related to these laws. As far as the Realty Tax Act itself is concerned, I'm not sure what that would mean because there's no influence on the central state and there's no influence on the local government. What would it mean to withdraw that law from the procedure? What would that mean? And there will be 100 million kuna left in local self-government units. Only in the city of Zagreb is a reduction of nearly 90 million kuna in the following year. And all obligations, all duties of local self-government remain. What would it mean if it had no impact on the state budget, to withdraw that law? I mean, I'm curious, here. In addition, when it comes to the Income Tax Act, you know that many cities and municipalities work hard to encourage the economy. And what my colleague Demetlika was like we had a deal and we didn't, I really didn't know what he was gonna talk about as well as he didn't know what I was gonna talk about, but we're here somewhere in the debates when it comes to a local self-government unit. So if there are no compensatory measures, if this is going to go on the burden again of citizens in local self-government units related to real estate tax, then I think we need to go on amending the law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. But just a few more words about the real estate tax law. At the first stage of tax reform, I was already talking about the rate of real estate tax in exchange. Yesterday on the Legislative Committee, I asked the Secretary of State carefully. He says it's so minor that it's not worth mentioning, the replacement of real estate. So when it's so minor, when these replacements are gone because we're wondering why these replacements really don't exist in big cities, especially in Zagreb. I was also talking about a specific personal example. An apartment of 105 square meters and a 65-square apartment in the same neighborhood in nearby buildings, the one with a larger flat of 105 square meters, which should be entered by a young family with 2-3 children and these 2 old people who should enter a smaller apartment, these should pay a bigger tax, because smaller apartments, at a market price, are more valuable. Which is why we don't go into what I actually suggested, what we had in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, which is that on the replacement of apartments, taxes are paid on the difference in the market value of one apartment and the other. Whoever pays that tax, it's a matter of contract, we don't have to legislate it. Whether it'll be paid by one or another owner of an apartment that replaces it. But then I don't think our replacement apartment would be minor. If that's what we're getting out of it, it's not necessary. It wouldn't even be easy for the tax administration because it's the way it works on the tables anyway. It also has to when it determines the tax at a rate of 3.4 or 5%... Look at the market value of one apartment, the market value of another apartment and fire both taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of saying the difference in market value is so much, pays the one as agreed. That would be if you wanted even social justice. This would be socially just, to which the Institute of Social Justice you are also calling on in this proposal for a law on property tax. So I've asked very specific questions, everything else is not disputed, here to vote in general, but as far as the Real Estate Tax Act is concerned, I've asked what would happen if that law were withdrawn, and as far as the Income Tax Act is concerned, what would happen to the incomes of the local self-government unit. Or if this law stays in the process, what happens to the incomes of the local self-government unit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102407	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS and time will be shared by a respected representative of Makar and respected colleague Curaj, the first respected representative of Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102408	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in his presentation, the minister told us that it was the third round of tax discharge, in the context of tax reform. This today was alluding to something else said that we were expecting a 9-round. However, we in the HNS really expect four rounds of tax discharge for the next year, and I look forward to that proposal as well. In 2017, the tax exemption amounted to 2.3 billion, in 2018. 1.3 billion, 3 billion are expected in 2019, so a total of 6.6 billion disbursements for our shareholders for our citizens. By being both our citizens and our citizens, which we really expect very much from. In the past tax discharge, precisely in 2018, the largest extent was put right on the discharging of the economy. So we also had a reduction in the profit tax rate from 20 to 18% for all those small ones who made up to 3 million kn, we would only have 12% of the tax, so we all expected that it would continue, in some ways this year and, in 2019, further disbursement of the economy. Here we have a discharge for them, which is expected from around 950 million kn, that's 0.7% out of contributions, whether that's enough or not, looking at the total amount that is less in the state budget, because really a lot individually per economy, that's not some amount, but every discharge is a good discharge. The most debate today, it was led not to take care enough of those with the lowest wages, not to worry enough about our nurses, about our teachers, in that category of people. So let's face it ourselves. I'm not going to talk about numbers now, that it was said that more than 9000 of those who don't pay any taxes and who, by increasing these bases to 5000 kn, can't do much. If we take that 3800 kn is an untaxable part of the salary that... The average Croatian family with 2 children, meaning that the salary is up to 8050 kn untaxable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know, you'll say 2 kids, 2 employees, each if you take, your personal deduction, but that still means that you pay up to $6,000 for the family, with 2 employees and 2 children you don't pay any income tax. So, if we went now and increased from 3800 to 5000 kn, those people wouldn't get a higher salary. We've just heard what groups of people are, our teachers that our colleagues normally stand for, and who are important to us, are important to our nurses, to all those in that class. And not to speak for those who are below 3800 kn, or those who are on a minimum salary of 2740 kn net. It is this untaxable part that opens up the possibility for these people, these groups to increase their salaries and not pay it in a way that, by 400 kn 412.00, how much would it turn out to be these extra 5.00 kn non-taxable, without paying any taxes and contributions on an annual basis, goes to increase just those with the lowest incomes, so if we take those who are now on a minimum salary of 2.740,00 kn, those 412.00 kn that will actually cost only 412.00 kn, and not as if we have increased the minimum wage. In that case, we'd be £680,00 more for the employer. That's a 15% increase for him. That it's some big increase, not if we're looking at an absolute amount. But it's far better than going to this to raise the minimum wage for that amount of 680,00 kn, so the employer would give more than 680,00 kn, the worker gets 400,00 kn. The employer can now give the worker 400,00 kn and pay nothing for it, so its cost is 400,00 kn, and the worker will receive a salary higher by 15%. And that everyone wasn't taken care of. It was really accounted for in fact in what way to help this particular target group that gets the lowest wages and itself comes from the northern Republic of Varazdin County where the wages are really low and we have a lot of leather industry, we have a lot of textile industry, the wood industry is down developed, but the wages are among the lowest. And I believe that this is exactly the way in the next year those low-income workers will feel these benefits and get that supplement. Whether this will be possible for additional payments to be made in the 12 months, some employers will certainly take advantage of what they are capable of, which are operating above expected and income in 2018. It would be good to have as many employers as possible, but as many as it will be, we'll see a half... The forms when they're handed over who decided on any untaxable payments during the 12th month. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is important to note that it was both the intensity and the employer's proposal and they want their workers better, they want better conditions and they want them to work there. And this second part, which is tied to a reduction, when you go down from 25 percent to 13%, really for those basic life supplies that everyone spends, which are also spent on the lowest incomes, so, meat fresh, fish, fruit, vegetables. We've got diapers. I'm sure it will also contribute to keeping home budgets more resources for everyone. I particularly welcome that the ministry or government has accepted and the proposal is from colleagues from the assembly to reduce VAT on non-receptive medicines, and I am sure there is no one here who would object and that we are all satisfied with that. What I'd like to say in income tax is that 12% is taxing seasonal work in agriculture and that it's a final reckoning, that it's considered a final calculation, that we don't have that 24% or how much you've accomplished, so at the end of the year to calculate, so it still needs to be paid, it never looks good. And something else that would distract you. I might be from another aspect, but they're my colleagues. It's about real estate tax. And that reduction from 4 to 3%. In fact, when we had the rate cut from 5% to 4%, there were no reductions in the budgets of the local self-government units. However, we know that in those previous years it was imputable to the first real estate, and it was also difficult to compare. With this, however, there may be some reduction, I believe that this reduction that went first from 5 to 4 now from 4 and 3 will encourage all real estate traffic to be reported. We are witnessing what it looks like and what our land books look like. We all know that the prerequisite for introducing any real estate tax is to just sort out land books. We are also in Milanovic's government, so HNS was against the introduction of real estate and we are now against the introduction of real estate taxes. However, we advocate the introduction of property taxes and, of course, real estate taxes. We think if it's real estate, that someone invested in real estate, in house, apartment, whether they invested in shares, whether they were saving, that they should all have equal treatment, or whether they should all be the same approach. Therefore, a certain part which is untaxable regardless of whether it is real estate, whether it is money or some other property and after that, the rest should be taxed. And we think that this is exactly the sorting of land books and this reduction of taxes that should, on real estate, contribute to this is a prerequisite for the introduction and taxes on real estate. At first, I said that we are expecting the fourth round in the next year and we will see what it brings us, and since these three circles have really brought a lot of good, far more good, and far more satisfied than unsatisfactory. I'm sure that's the way it's gonna be with the next year's proposal. Thank you, my colleague will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102409	Dear Representative Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102410	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretary of state, assistants, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, a little summed up today, during the day, we had a chance to hear a lot about the past, and what I'm interested in and what we all need to care about is the future. So, of course, the tax reform package that started as the minister in the opening speech said since 1.1.2017, so in 2018 now in '19. and announced for 2020 is something to look at as a whole and not draw a piece at a time. And I think that we can be absolutely satisfied, however we have any tax changes and general changes that only go in favour of our citizens, employers, in general if we talk about the economy. I think it's past the time of tax depression, and now we have to go to the highest possible reduction in the role of the state in society, and above all, the cost of the state itself, which is then met through different forms of tax, not only today's nine tax laws, but also other parafiscal burdens. What we can be pleased about, especially what I said in the replica, approach, and even compare it to the approach of pension reform, which didn't go through the media, you didn't hear, that neither I personally, nor the CNS was speaking anything media, we're going to do this, but we're going to sit down, and I remember with the minister in the 4th month this year, we're going to make our proposals, our thoughts about reducing the linear rate by 1%, or linear reduction of VAT by 1%, we're going to propose this interplay of 13%. Also increasing the threshold for entering the higher tax class of 36%, it's not, and we need to be aware of what we want from this country. Do we want to keep high-school, smart, young experts here or do we want to do everything to them, to see how somewhere else can be better. We have estimated that, as we have heard both doctors and experts and people working in IT sectors, we should enable their employers to keep and be competitive here, on the market, the world market, because they make the most of it, and not to go after the experience gained, out for twice as much pay, because our employers, because of the burden on the state, these same taxes I have mentioned, cannot provide them with it. Of course, then, they should be thought of. Of course you should think about those who have the least. And I agree, that tax burden must be as little as possible, the more it must remain for our people, because it has shown on all macroeconomic indicators, that when you leave more money to our people, they spend more, they encourage development, they encourage consumption, as still one of the most important elements of our GDP and components, and that's one good direction, but of course not as drunk billionaires. We have to consider all aspects. And of course today and these days, proposed some measure of increasing the personal deduction by 3800 to 5000 kuna sounds interesting, although to a woman, a parent with a single child who earns 5500 kuna, it means nothing to him. So 0 kuna will get more, that's a little bit for those with higher incomes, but it doesn't matter. And at the same time we're taking units, local units, local self-government units, and we're not doing some counterweight. And without that counterweight, and that's the task we have to think about next year, and for 2020, still, because what happens then? They'll pick up kindergartens, communal fees, water, garbage, everything to get the local self-government unit to collect some taxes for all of their obligations that they have to serve and that they allow people again. And that's how we actually gathered those who have the least. And here we are going to go cheap with this VAT reduction measure, do they have, the one who has 3,000, 3500 kuna or 4000, however we make a personal deduction, they won't feel anything, but when the VAT is cut to food, to basic supplies, they will. Why? Because, it's not some revolutionary idea, we're just looking at, like, the cost of living out there and here, they're almost the same. So let's do what's basic to make it the cheapest. What everyone buys. Which is a basic food supply. Let's go distinguish the luxury from the base. A luxury to tax, but not a base. And it's actually on the trail and that proposal we've adopted, which we've now received. Of course, I don't have to say that the Ministry of Education has reacted that scholarships and awards don't come into the account of incomes, or those 15000 kunas that one could earn to continue to be a tax relief. Also, municipal shares, in the first reading we proposed and welcomed the change that no longer goes, to tax as income, but as income from capital or capital, and I welcome this reduction from 36% to 24%, that is, it will greatly contribute, I think that just some of our experts, are not residents somewhere further because of these municipal shares than to stay here and finally have income from these municipal shares and taxes on them, because so far it has all been reported further, working in Croatia and elsewhere are residents. And they avoid actually, then they pay everything and income tax. What is part of it, we can also welcome, when I was talking about the 13th salary and model, where we also suggested that the 13th personal deduction be introduced, so that this 13th salary would be the retail non-taxable to those who have almost to an average salary. The model with an increase in the non-taxable part, actually made it much more elegant, much simpler, and we recognized that, and of course we welcome it, and we're not going to insist on just this perhaps more complicated 13th salary, which we wanted to enable our employers to, with less tax burden, give more money to our employees. And that's what's good, is it can be paid now as a salary supplement, a monthly, a one-time, a 13th salary, as they call it so little less important, it's only important that people can get something more real without tax burden. What is not accepted at first and which can be regulated over the year, I hope that next year we will approach and that the measure is primarily a compensation for a warm meal, which certainly could be found a model of how to make it possible and so that our workers would continue to be more competitive to be one of the ways of keeping people in the country from leaving, as an addition that would also be untaxable. And the same thing with the Income Tax Regulation that I am also doing for our employers and private employees that we still have a 15-year-old provision where the fee for using a private vehicle for official purposes up to 2 kn per km, I don't have to remind you of what it meant 15 years ago 2 kn and what it means today, when we see that the average salary has increased by 2 times since then or maybe a little less that the price of fuel that we don't speak is almost double, I think it's something we should imagine, I say up to 2.5 kuna, it doesn't automatically mean that some of us here should be happy, I suggest that here we all and all the general employees of the state service or officials remain equal. So, finally for 2020, we certainly continue to talk about how we started, and hopefully we'll start right after the first quarter when they come and get the results and absolutely no further measures and no measures can go to any harm. I'm still asking you only in the end to think about this.../incomprehensible... tax burden through the regulations to get rid of women especially for entrepreneurs. who are self-employed to find a solution for them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102411	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU, and time will be shared by respected representative Vesna Pusic and respected representative of Silvano Hrelja. First honorary representative Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I will refer specifically to the VAT Act, the Real Estate Tax Act and the Excise Tax Act, but allow me to say an introductory sentence first, two. In fact, the subject of tax is indeed the political legitimacy of a country and speaks not only about tax policy, but also about social policy and health and education, practically everything that is financed from these taxes. And that's why I think that in this policy it really is necessary and it needs a certain continuity and some kind of competition or access to everything that these before me have done is wrong, the world, life and the state begin, starting with me and my government is not a good approach and, of course, it's not true. So, the fact that we are able today to propose a reduction in VAT, i.e. a reduction in some taxes and a different policy or perhaps a slightly more liberal policy in this respect is the result and the fact that, for example, from the huge economic downturn in 2011, we turned the economy into economic growth, I agree it would be better if it were bigger, stronger and larger, but it is still economic growth. That we have come out of an excessive deficit procedure that requires a completely different policy than once you get rid of that burden, so in this respect I think it is important to observe the tax policy and opportunities it provides in continuity and try to continue on each other instead of denying and competing. And the proposals that are here today ahead of us are, of course, based on facts and results that have been embedded in changing the economic situation in Croatia over a number of years, I would say at least since our entry into the European Union here. Therefore, in this proposal for a law amending the VAT rate, it is proposed to reduce to 24% in principle any tax reduction is potentially positive under two conditions. One is that it does not reflect the reduction in the scope and quality of basic public services and I think it should be kept in mind because very often when it comes to taxes, all of them are to reduce taxes, when it comes to public health, education, pensions, etc. and various other types of services are all to give the state more. These taxes are the money from where it comes from, so the first condition is not to reduce the scope of basic public services and others when it makes sense for this reduction to be passed on to consumers or to citizens in the form of price reductions. Now, in this case it is questionable, not only in Croatia it is a common-known phenomenon which I think is called sticky prices or sticky stories, which means that when they improve, namely when the heavy price conditions go up, when the conditions of prices are improved they stay glued up, so they don't get reduced, and especially with this 1% reduction in VAT, there is this danger of these sticky prices, that VAT is reduced but it does not spill over to citizens and consumers, but is poured into some other pockets for which it was not intended. So, I'm just warning you, that the state can't do much in that sense to order or ban anything from employers, but at least given that in that way and observes the realisation or effects that the VAT reduction has caused in the economy. This one between the first and second readings is added either an extended list of services and goods that are introduced between the 13% VAT rate, which we consider positive, among other things include certain public services as services that are introduced between the VAT rate, and it is somewhat saying that there was something that was proposed by one of the laws that I will not directly address here, but I will talk about it as a colleague of Hrelja, which is a reduction in the non-taxable part of the income which is then reflected in the incomes of local self-government units, but if some of those services provided by local self-government units are introduced among the 13% rate, this is one of the guess of the neutralisers of this effect that the increase in the non-taxable part of income has on those units. Tax on property sales which is now reduced from five to four now from four to three, the same rule any reduction is good if it meets those first two criteria. But what is disappointing here is that there is no more tax exemption when buying the first real estate. This I think is particularly important for young people and young families and this should be the focus of the population for which we are interested and to be there and to work and stay in Croatia, the argument that we remember in the debate was that this cannot be done so it cannot be freed from the property tax when buying first real estate because of the rules of the European Union. However, if we remember in the Housecare Act in assisted areas, it is regulated that when it comes to the award of real estate in these areas, the tax on real estate is zero. So it's not clear to me how it's possible that in one law it's possible to have a zero tax, and in this law that would be very focused on young people and young families who buy their first real estate is not possible to have a zero tax. It is clear, therefore, that this should be, that the great lack of this law and the defect goes to say in an Anti-population or Anti-demographic measure. Of course, it should be borne in mind that real estate tax is not a property tax especially because even though it is sometimes like this when people say it can be mixed, it is not a real estate tax, our problem with that other real estate tax is the fact that we do not have a cadastre of some kind of flexible real estate cadastre, so it is very difficult to introduce a property tax if you have to compare 100 squares on Stradun in Dubrovnik or 100 squares in some small place in Lika or Slavonia. It is obvious that it is quite different values although it is the same size of real estate and that is the obstacle that needs to be skipped so that this other topic can start talking about real estate tax. And finally, the Excise Taxation Act, not to mention many have said, the return of excise duties on energy used as fuel in commercial goods transport, is to say, the reduction of the black market, the extension of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages from 30 days to now, at 30 to 60 days, the elimination of the obligation to account for the differences in excise duty on cigarettes held in the territory of Croatia and then e-commerce and strengthening control. This law would be a great opportunity to really manifest a policy that we would have to lead, which is in the general interest, and especially the Republic of Croatia, which is to use tax policy and relief for environmentally acceptable energy. Therefore, not only sell as many diesels and gasoline as possible but also stimulate the use of environmentally acceptable or environmentally non-injurious energy through tax relief. That's not what we're talking about here, and that's not what we're talking about here, and the rest is going to be a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102413	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Hrelja will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102414	Dear Mr Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, so I first said in the first reading of what my perception or our concept of GLAS and HSU, the Income Tax Act, we have been saying all along this term that there should be more tax rates we have at the moment and that there should not be a lower tax rate on high wages because the social situation in the Republic does not correspond to these facts, therefore, it is much more burdensome and much more serious. At this point we have 2 feet and one half rate, a 50% reduction base for pensioners and we have rates to 24 and 36% per income. What seems to me to be in this law, though, is that for students, it doesn't count on the amount of 15 000 kunas that students can make without their parents losing tax relief, not to enter scholarships, whether abroad or abroad. What I personally disagree with, my colleague Shucker, please, is what I don't normally agree with, which is that the work of students is so low and this is how it is arranged, as I don't agree with the Law on Student Affairs. I personally think that without parents losing one right, you should have a limit to earn up to 100,000 kuna a year, but to pay yourself 10% of the pension contributions because in the 90th year, they'll be entitled to retire as things go further because you need to know that someone has to have 30 years of training to go to early retirement or else they have to go to an old age tomorrow as proposed by 67. We're paying their health care, okay, it's okay. Why don't we pay our contributions at the rate, I don't know, 10% but they'll get an internship. If they had an internship, they'd never be able to do what the job market is like, they'd never have the right to retire, not even 15 years old. So I think there should be a little bit smarter than in some way stretching this extracurricular student work. In the Law of Contributions, these clarifications in the law surprise me in some way because you and I know that in 10 years of paying a special health contribution of 3% by pensioners who have more than 5960 kuna, it amounts to a budget of about 70 million kuna, that they have totaled at least 600 million kuna in these past years and that they have nothing of it, so these pensioners have nothing of it, that we have no idea how health money is spent. I said on the board this morning, gentlemen, it's not the same contribution to health care and retirement. For pensioners each year, parliamentary representatives receive a report on HZMO's work and exactly how much pensions are paid for. I ask you gentlemen, when did you see a single report in the Croatian Parliament and discuss it, about HZMO's business? When did you discuss the revision of HZZO's business? I think the health care should think that without control, health care is a well that no one can ever fill. Let us compare ourselves with the rates of contributions of developed European countries and you will see that the contribution rate for pension and up to 2.5 times that for health care. I'm afraid we spend a lot of money on health care and we don't waste our appetites. Therefore, I am not satisfied with this clarification in the final draft of the law, I do not think it stands, that this is not the way to do one reasoned debate. I must also admit that I cannot accept this second clarification that since the highest pension is defined, the highest contribution rate for pension insurance must also be defined. It's now 9624 kuna. That's as much as a month can be paid for pension insurance. I'm telling you, there is no higher pension. What you're talking about is the criteria for determining the highest pension since the highest pension depends on the number of years someone has. So there is no single, universal highest pension. What you're talking about are the criteria but of those 1,000 people in Croatia, it's my game still with Mr. Shuker in 2003, 2004. These people who receive 100,000 kunas a month, so shouldn't they be honored to pay 20,000 or 15 000 in pension funds? And five for yourself? Shouldn't we be honored? No, they can't pay more than 9600... Did you really create all this and earn that salary of yours or did you leave my grandmother or someone to inherit it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Know it's not us, it's not members of the government, it's not constitutional judges, it's not parliamentary representatives, it's those who are rich and anonymous. Know that in Croatia, salaries are paid monthly and more than 500,000 kuna, and I wonder why we limit the payment of pension contributions to them, shouldn't these people be honored to pay the pension along the way of some poor people. No, we pay them back more money on the year's application, and they get another 13.14. So I can't accept this kind of argument. And I end up in Article 2 I don't think he should be a liquidator because he pays, he pays. the contributions that, it makes no sense to liquidators are not the ones that should take a short time, that is, or former members of the administration and the liquidation is carried out not to generate new costs. [[Intruder: Contributions.]] They shouldn't be placed among the insurance companies. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102415	The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102416	Dear Mr Vice-President, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, these 9 amendments or amendments to these nine laws certainly go in the right direction is the opinion of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Is going ambitious enough that's another question. Therefore, all of these 9 changes, with all the differences that exist between them, are somewhat less ambitious than they were with those previous 6 of them, but it does not reduce or cast any particularly difficult shadow on the basic direction of reforming the tax system or tax legislation taken by the ministry or government. And in this sense, this positive line and this positive trend, the SDSS Representatives Club supports. The fact that the State budget, based on changes to the VAT Act, will be 3 billion, nearly 3 billion kunas less in income, is good for our economy or a good opportunity to increase, further increase economic growth, and that is something we welcome, or something we need. There's always a Shuker, even if his name was Hrelja. I just wanted to say that there's always some Hill other guy behind the pay phone. It's all right. So, the fact that most of the food or fresh meat, fish, fruit, vegetables with these VAT changes should be reduced by about 10%, while the sale of medicines or the purchase of prescription drugs should be reduced by 18% from January, these are significant changes for most of our citizens. The same is true of course for bread, milk, books, newspapers and the fact that what was for books, milk and newspapers will now be used for medicines, and it was only for prescription medicines, will now apply to that part of medicines that are not only issued on prescriptions and that is a significant, significant change. These are just some of the changes that will please citizens and that will allow the goods they spend daily, one day-to-day purchases to be obtained at a more favourable or cheaper price, including those that include costs for the youngest members of our children's society, for babies, such as reducing the cost of baby food and reducing the cost of diapers. As regards changes to the law, income and the extension of the tax base for the application of the 24% rate at monthly level, from 17,500 to 30,000 kuna, it is certainly good, but when it comes to the lowest paid citizens in the Republic of Croatia, it should be considered whether these two rates are sufficient to create a fairer, more equal tax component, especially those who earn at least. Of course, when we say the least, we mean those that are not covered by this bill are not covered by the fact that their income, or their income, is not taxed. Now it's increasing to 3800 kuna. Today there was a debate about it, it's probably one of the most interesting parts of the debate I've heard. Is it possible to go more ambitious than the Ministry and Government suggest? Is it possible to go from 3800 to more than 3800 kuna? The minister says it would endanger among other original income units of local self-government. And I'm sure he would. But on the other hand, of course, is there any possibility that this deficit that units of local self-government could have by increasing the non-taxable part of income, is it possible to predict and compensate by budget if that amount is not as large as it seems in some cases is if some percentage is determined? We say this because it certainly would have been beneficial for both employers and employers. As far as the contribution is concerned, i.e. as regards the scholarship of students to say that when it comes to the Law amending the Income Act, what our colleague Hrelja said was a positive measure and a good measure, that is also the point of view of our club. And this significantly removes the limits that have been laid down so far by the legal provisions. And what Hrelja's colleague said should consider that the income of 100 thousand kuna with the possibility of payment of 10% of those who perform jobs based on student contracts and student work should indeed be seriously considered. It should simply be taken seriously because it is also a presumption of a new culture of payments to the pension system from a very young generation and from a new generation of pensioners. I won't say anything more about what it means and what long-term implications it is. But about that, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Assistants, the Secretary of State seems worth thinking about. In addition to all the arguments presented by the MP, I will add, so I underline the creation of a new culture of payments in pension contributions and in the new generation of pensioners under new circumstances. I'm not the happiest thing to do, but it's necessary to do it because otherwise we're going to put people in a position where when they come into a position that they can have a more permanent job, I say, I don't say a permanent job, that it's going to be a time in which, for many, it's going to be too late to be serious candidates for a life pension. As regards contributions and amending the law on contributions, reducing labour injuries from 0.5% of HZZO income and employment contributions, i.e. for the unemployed, which is why they are paid mostly for the unemployment benefits of those 1.7% have their positive effects because employers, as the ministry foresees, should be able to pay an incomplete billion kuna, i.e. to have this fiscal effect, should have almost more than a billion kuna for them. And this reduction in health insurance contributions from 15, i.e. an increase in health insurance contributions from 15 to 16.5% should again allow HZZO to income a billion 300, billion 350 kunas annually is a good measure assuming that employers, on the one hand, get to respect and pay contributions. This ministry puts itself, or some of its resolutions, in a position to strengthen control and strengthen control so that the HZZO does not remain short for money that, to the best extent possible, the best intention of the Ministry of Finance has made it possible for such changes to go in the direction of employers. And we know that the current practice of paying contributions was one of the weaker practices when the relationship between employers and their obligations to the state. And for this reason, Mr. Minister, the SDSS's club would be happy to hear again from your side how and in what way the Ministry of State thinks, by which control mechanisms, which kind of surveillance reduces the risk that most of us here recognize, and probably you also recognize it based on current practice, how it intends to reduce it here, so that the HZZO does not remain without what is necessary, especially because we know what the health situation is in the field of health. We do not accuse the Croatian Institute, the system is much larger, much more complex, sources of debt and debt and dubiosis are in many other places, not necessarily on HZZO. So most of these changes of the SDSS will back up. Finally, I will say a few more words about what would actually bring significant tax changes and in which direction should be thought and in which direction should be directed. So here I didn't talk about amendments to the Real Estate Act, although we welcome these changes. But I'm going to mention something about general property tax issues. Since I was in this House, we have often met with finance ministers who have met with this important topic and have raised this important issue as a question, and some have been more courageous in this, more courageous, some have been less courageous. But I think it's finally time for us MPs to see whether through the Finance Committee or through some other parliamentary body, a debate is being held where we will really be able to see what the risks are with seeing the perspective of introducing the Real estate tax. I'm not saying it's something you have to do in your term, I'm not even saying that this government right now has every assumption of doing it. But I think it would be finally time to see who's benefiting from retaining the present condition as we do if it's damaged? And was the current model that's been fair for a long time, whether he kept that justice when Wednesday's the fact that we don't have a law, we don't have a real estate tax. A lot has changed. And me and the club I belong to would be very interested in seeing one species, first of all, the situation, and on the other hand the simulation. What would that look like? And what kind of model could be sustainable without jeopardizing those people whose property is the only property they have, even if not the source of income. And those whose property on one side is the source of income, and on the other hand the source of all kinds of wealth. Taxation of wages, communal contribution systems, of course, is something that worked in one system that is set to function. Today's system isn't like that anymore. And property relations have changed a lot. Look at our city we live in. And with the naked eye, we can see huge changes. So I'm not a liberal in the economic sense of that word, I'm a socialist. But I think if we're going to hold out in the long run, then we need to start thinking about it. Especially when we know that communal contributions many avoid paying and not paying It's all right. [[Intruder: Please.]] So it wasn't an observation, it wasn't even a proposal for something in which the Ministry should go, but it is something that we should think about and should be a place where we should work together. On the one hand, the Ministry and the Committees, or the working bodies of the Assembly, of the other part. And it is precisely because we would not be able to have most of the debates in the House when such important things, such as tax reforms, come down to the replicas of the minister, not to discuss the topics that pose serious challenges when the structural reform that is necessary in our country is on Wednesday. So, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the club of SDSS representatives will support these changes, they are in the right direction, they are not most ambitious, they have big signs of questions in some places, but they are certainly better than the existing situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102417	Thank you. We continue to present on behalf of the club of representatives. The next colleague, Davor Vlaovic, is on behalf of the club of representatives of the HSS, please welcome colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102418	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates, here are a few comments on behalf of the HSS Club on this package of tax laws. Namely, the Government, or Ministry, calls this package of laws a tax system reform. He says that through these tax discharges, the aim is to stimulate economic activity and to keep highly educated Croatian citizens in the country. The general assessment of the people I talked to is that this is just one small change in the tax system that will not significantly stimulate economic and economic activity or stop emigration. Because changes to the VAT law could make it more active in this area and encourage domestic production, and then also demand on the domestic market and on the other hand more stable revenues for the state, competitiveness of the Croatian economy, higher employment and, through changes in income tax and other taxes, make these laws more socially fair so that that layer of the population that lives and works for the minimum person or on average, most of our citizens in rural areas is working for a salary of 3 to 6.7,000 kuna and these changes will not make them more likely to feel the shifts in their home budget, nor will they increase their purchasing power or standard more significantly. Introductoryly, Croatia is one of the countries where the tax burden is extremely high, it is 38%. For example, in Ireland there is 23%, in neighbouring Eastern European countries with which we often like to compare it from 32% to 35%. And it wouldn't just be a problem if the level and quality of public service that our citizens and our taxpayers get at the equivalent of paying tax liabilities wasn't at a low level. And what many entrepreneurs say, entrepreneurs say that precisely because of frequent changes in laws there is one uncertainty and that such a high tax burden is an obstacle to investment, investment and then personal consumption. And what should also be said that since 2009, this tax pressure is still extremely high and that it has grown, we heard in the opening statement from fellow Petrova it is more than 8 billion more than in 2009. And it certainly does not contribute to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy or contributes to further fostering investment and domestic investment. When it comes to VAT law, we at HSS believe that better projections should be made and more serious about encouraging domestic production, especially when it comes to food products, because 90% of food products do not have sufficient food production and depend on imports, and thus we are practically helping to reduce this VAT from 25% to 13%, importers, or food producers in Europe. And it is questionable whether trade chains in Croatia will reduce the price of these products and since VAT is reduced from 25% to 13%, especially as we depend on these very European markets, European producers and we know that this year was very demanding for agricultural production and that certain agricultural products and food products are missing and that it will certainly not reflect this VAT reduction with food prices cut in that consumer basket as provided for in this law. Our proposal went to consider family farms. We have recently passed the Family Agricultural Economy Act where some 65,000 economies will enter the OPG register with about 3,000 euros of standard output, and those 40,000 that are in the register, which are below that are only supply economies that do not go out on the market and which we have to give a chance to survive on that market. And our proposal was not to tax them at all because it would have no significant pressure on the general government's revenues anyway. There was no hearing about it, we welcome, of course, every tax discharge, but I said that these effects of reduction from 25% to 13% will not reflect so much on purchasing power and consumption in Croatia. And another reason is that we depended on imports and on the trends in food prices in Europe is that most of the countries in our food environment have lower VAT. Germany as much as 7%, Slovenia 9.5%, Serbia, Bosnia 10%. Introductoryly, I told the Replicator why he didn't go to 5% on these products as well as on drugs. It can't be due to tax revenues and projections in the next period, you might think about it in another attempt. It is our proposal to immediately proceed with a more drastic procedure and we will make an amendment to reduce it to 10%. I hope you will also accept that you will not need this additional throw, but that in the first attempt right now, you will put the ball through the network and help the family farms, food producers in Croatia and that you will point, that all of you will then tell you the minister's bravo, you helped agriculture in Croatia. It is also important to say that it is unacceptable for us in the HSS if the VAT is already reduced to live cattle and raw meat why not to dry meat products and also to the coolen. Because if through a series of measures we encourage rural development, preservation of indigenous varieties and breeds, if we go through supporting the creation of conditions for processing capacity through rural development measures to create processing capacity, then why not allow us to have lower VAT on these finished products and to raise the level of that production. Because you and I are witnessing that our fellow citizens cross the bridge every day in the Ship are going to the Bosnian Ship, the Bosnian City, and they are going to Serbia. And how do you stop that river of people who not by their own fault have to go for cheaper products in Bosnia? And to be a tragedy greater by your guilt, you must go for cheaper products in Bosnia and be a tragedy greater that they are products of Croatian producers there 30% and more cheap than in Croatia. You have a situation like this. So seriously this should be considered and here I suggest that you accept the amendment of the Croatian Peasant Party to at least part of these competitivenesss that Croatian producers do not have in relation to the environment to correct. Also, the questionable reduction that you announced in 2020 from 25% to 24% of those 1% will significantly reduce the general government's revenues, and it will not benefit from the effects that will relieve the economy or increase the home budget of our citizens through salary increases, as this is likely to melt somewhere in the general economic situation of our entrepreneurs in relation to competition on the market. They will keep it for some investments, God forbid it is an investment, and on the other hand, what we want to increase demand and consumption in Croatia and the standards of our citizens will not happen, so we suggest that you think about it and leave that part as income, that part of that VAT return to units of local and regional self-government, because you also take this package of laws to municipalities and cities and counties 370 million kuna, 100 million kuna through the envisaged changes to the Law on Real Estate Tax, a reduction from 4 to 3% and 270 million kuna through income tax. That's how you projected in the bill I read it in the draft bill. So there are no measures to compensate for this and there is a lack of income reduction to units of local and regional self-government, and on the other hand we will not increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy or raise the standard of our citizens. When it comes to the Taxation Act, there is, of course, the Croatian Employers' Association, and we, the Croatian Peasants' Party, welcome them to return some of the excise duties to our entrepreneurs who are here through the excise duty on diesel fuel, have increased costs of their business and it collects and traffic and reduces the competitiveness of goods from Croatia. Of course we have a doubt there when you left there the possibility that foreign companies, by buying fuel in Croatia, would get their fees back. I don't think we need to help the competitiveness of Austrian carriers and this, is that part of our entrepreneurs are registered in Slovenia and other European countries because of their poor tax policy, but it is said in a statement from the HUP that they are satisfied that here in Croatia and foreign companies will be able to benefit from that benefit, and the rest of us in HSS is unclear when you stated that through these 54 million kunas that will be helped to transport people and students, that they are ineligible, because the lines in rural areas are thus maintained. As far as I know, the transport of students is a special transport and is paid from the Ministry of Science and Education, and the transport of high school students goes through public lines and all those who are holders or concessionaries of these public lines did not compete on these lines only because of high school students but they transport and all other fellow citizens and workers and then it is illogical that the student card from Gunjevac 1,320 kuna, and for the same route of the worker's 640 kuna, it turns out that the Ministry of Science and Education pays that non-performable line of carriers instead of investing that money in education, in equipment, in the salaries of teachers and teachers who have been paid. Check this out, I don't think it's a good way for you to achieve this measure of not achieving that desired activity so that these lines continue to remain because we have to help me differently with these depressed areas, people from whom people move out, areas where people move out to stimulate economic activity, create new jobs, raise wages, raise minimum wages, and then there will be no question that these buses have passengers. And of course the proposal is to consider the good model offered by the Croatian Railways and the Ministry of Science and Education to the regional self-government units to create integrated transport modules, to drive buses to the first train station, and then to continue to travel the railway to county centres where they are mostly secondary schools, and of course we from HSS are also in favour of decentralisation that the school goes to the student and can see where it can still be helped to open new schools in these areas. I must also mention here that in this previous reform, there is a reduction in excise duty on strong alcoholic beverages to powerful brandy, but that reduction did not give us the result that we expected to keep the orchards from collapsing and continuing to produce and to raise production levels or to emerge from the gray part of the economy. You still have on the ground, and I have to say here that the plums are cramping, that the cherries are cramping, that there is no motive for our family farms to process it into fruit brandy because it's still that our indigenous traditional drinks, fruit rakia high that tax, and especially strong administrative barriers through customs warehouses etc. And here I invite you to once again sit down with stakeholders in these processes and try to find models to treat this area differently and to help preserve this production in these rural areas. When it comes to income tax, we in the HSS are asking first of all to raise minimum wages, because a very large number of our citizens are still working for minimum wage, somewhere it is mentioned a figure of as many as 75,000 people in Croatia. And with a minimum salary of 2.781 kuna or 750 depending on personal deductions you can't live up to and that's why our people are moving out. I know that there are sensitive sectors that would be difficult to bear the increase in minimum wages, but let's find models to help them to bear because that way these 75 000 citizens would think about staying in the Republic of Croatia. They also expected this measure to be socially fair, and it is not because by increasing this part of the taxation threshold at the highest rate at £360.000,00 you help only 1% of the builders, 1 to 1.5%. Instead of seizing more seriously into this area of our citizens who, as I said, live in rural areas and work from, for a salary of 3 to 6, 7.000,00 kn. You know, I think that's the way it is in Slavonia, especially when it comes to wood industry, construction, not to mention textiles. I think that here, there have been good proposals here today and that this increase in the non-taxable part is the only way to increase their salary by 300, 400, 500,00 kn, can then be compensated through what I said you were not reducing VAT from 25% to 24%, to compensate for the revenues of local self-government units or that the government has accepted the proposal that the HSS has made in the procedure to adopt the Law on the Origin of Property, because the World Bank also suggests that somewhere over 30% of the economy in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere in the gray zone, in the gray economy. They say it's about 40 billion. Well, here's the money, just a little bit if you had adopted this law, not only because it's out of opposition, it would have come to these revenues, because the IRS would have the opportunity right away to determine that the disproportionateness between income and property, the tax solution, would have charged it, and it would have been a lot more than 2 billion, and it could certainly be more serious to help raise the wages of this sensitive sector, and for teachers, and for nurses, and for medical staff and other people who rightly expect this country to be socially just and to care for them and to give them the chance to stay here and to train their children. I've already said that we don't agree that through real estate tax, of course the reduction in that tax is good, it takes 100 million kuna units to local self-government, there are no compensatory measures, and I'm particularly pointing out this because it says in the explanation that it will then help faster and greater legal transfer of property, quality records in grants, cadastres, and we all know that it's not exactly so that local and regional self-government doesn't have enough money to go along with the cadastre to sort out land books, but rather the municipalities, the state, through the state geodetic administration, I've already said that several times here. There were good measures where the Government, through state geodetic administration along with units of local regional self-government, co-financed the handling of land books, z.k. of proper procedures, etc. That's what I care about, and that's not good. And as long as that doesn't happen, until we initiate it again, we won't have a real estate situation, so then you can't even think about introducing some other taxes that were previously talked about. When it comes to profit tax, I was already talking here in the first reading that we are sorry that you missed the opportunity for all those reinvested profits, especially in Slavonia and other demographically impoverished areas, to free up, that is, to be a tax relief, because this reduction to 18% and 12% will not further increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy because we know that in the environment there is a much lower rate of profit tax and that there will be no increased investment in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we have a problem that people do not have jobs, that they have small salaries and that they are evicting and that our proposal is certainly very quick to think about it and to introduce, that all reinvested profits for each newly created job in Slavonia and some other similar areas with the same problems will be tax relief. It would certainly increase investment in these areas and certainly contribute to economic activities in the area. Here, and in conclusion, I said that neither this is a real tax reform, is it just another change of tax laws, nor is it socially just that it has affected the most sensitive groups of the population. Turns out that the role that the state was supposed to provide is the even development of all corners of our Republic, it's not so, that still those who have money and who are closer to Zagreb will develop, while this Slavonic, figure, sub-level and other region will lag behind in the development and that we will continue to be economic migrants and emigrate and that through the reduction of the cost of diesel fuel, for the transport of people, only maybe reduce the price of the ticket to go to Germany I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Point the Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102419	Thank you. We've completed the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. We continue with individual debates. The first one's a colleague of Miro Bulj. There's no colleague. Okay. Next is colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102420	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleagues Suker and counterpart Peric expressed their position on which we in the club will support this set of nine tax laws which represent the continuation of tax reform started in November 2016. By then, the Ministry of Finance, or the Minister, announced annual amendments to the laws that would simplify the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, which the tax system would be in the function of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. So we can conclude that this third round of tax reform is taking place within the framework of the continuation of positive economic and business activities in the Republic of Croatia and contributes to its further development. The materials we received from the government say that the impact and implementation of this third round of tax reform would be a contribution of GDP growth by 3%, so 0.3%, so it is also clear according to the budget already provided for us and GDP growth next year of 2.9% and largely clearly participates and participates in this tax reform. When we talk about tax reform from, in these 3 years, we said that approximately somewhere at 7 billion kuna is the discharge of Croatian citizens, households and Croatian entrepreneurs, and that only this circle and this third round of tax reform implies about 2 billion and 600 million, respectively, 900 million for households, 900 million for households and 700 million kuna for entrepreneurs. Despite the fact that, which is the Government, that is, by adopting these tax reforms, we have charged the citizens directly with reducing the revenues of the state budget, we can say that it was the year 2017 after, I think it is the only year in which the surplus of the state budget was recorded and according to the data we have at a level of 3.1 billion, 3.1 billion kuna. It is particularly good that, through these three rounds of tax reform, we have strengthened the position of local self-government units with the decentralisation of financial resources which, through allocation of income tax resources, allocated them, delivered them, transferred them, determined that the incomes of the local self-government unit. What we may often forget, not to mention, I don't see much in the public eye that in the past two years, Croatia's foreign debt has been reduced by more than 2.5 billion kuna, euros, 2.5 billion euros and amounts to around, about 40 billion euros, which is, in fact, a pardon, represents... 78% of GDP, and in this way practically here, over a short period of time, there was a significant reduction, a reduction in foreign debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, I would particularly single out here, given that last year she represented somewhere and ended up with a surplus of the state budget of about 3 billion kunas to me, and I am interested in how and how the Ministry of Finance sees by the end of this year how the state budget will take place in view of the problem of triggering guarantees by the Uljaniks. It would be good if we knew how much and how to reflect the activation of these guarantees by the end of the year, if we were to testify by the end of the year then also to the surplus of the state budget and whether this will have an indirect impact on that desired credit rating of the Republic of Croatia that we expected to raise to the level of investment next year, which has not been the case so far. It would be good if the minister in his final address looked back on this position as much as and in what way the problems of the Uljannik dubiosis group influence, clearly on the state of public finances especially on the possibility and whether... they will also be surplus and whether the situation with the Ulnik will undermine what the Republic of Croatia expected, which we all expected together to be that the first rating of the RS credit rating will be at the level of the credit rating so that the credit rating will be at the level of the investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would specifically single out the government's decision to increase by 3 times the level of the non-taxable income because it seems to me that it was the only right way to help Croatian citizens directly, Croatian employees, given the fact that out of 2 million and 700 thousand taxpayers in Croatia, millions and a half of them are not already in the system, is not affected by income tax rates. Therefore, any measure that would increase the personal deduction, which in any way would be directed towards the very most vulnerable part of the population, i.e. those, Croatian citizens of those who have the lowest wage, would not be effective at all, would not be enforceable because they are already said by a million and 500, and therefore they are the most vulnerable, not in income tax boxes. So in this way, an increase in the untaxable income to 7.5 thousand kuna is directly heading towards these very citizens. And if we add this to the fact that the reduced VAT is to the most important items, which are the most participated in the union basket, I believe that this was the only right way to help those citizens who produce them, these products make up the most of the costs, the monthly costs. Therefore, I believe that the ministry, or government, has just been targeted by its reform to those of our fellow citizens who are most, who are practically in the most difficult situation, whose wages are below average, etc., etc. A little while ago, a colleague, Vlaovic, now left, mentioned a minimum wage. And I'm joining that, I believe the government will respond to the Minimum Payment Act by the end of the year with a minimum wage definition. As you know, in two years, two past years, just at the end of the year, on two occasions, we've increased the minimum wage, both times about 5.6%, so now the net wage has increased somewhere around 10% compared to 2015. I therefore expect that the Government, with the new law and the Minimum Payment Regulation, will prevent and that part in order to increase the minimum wage, and in doing so last year, to make compensatory measures precisely for those industries that have the highest employees, which are at that level of minimum wages, so that they can be clearly made possible by compensatory measures, and one measure that will make their business easier both because of the height, the minimum wage prescribed would not be put at risk in their business. I also support the decision to go towards reducing the overall VAT rate. Somewhere I was a participant when the minister, some debate in which the minister represented and presented a graph of the position of the Republic of Croatia within the EU Member States when we talk about non-specific taxes. When we talk about special taxes, then we are alone, which is VAT, so we are at the top of the EU Member States with our overall VAT rate 25% but when we talk about not specific taxes such as income tax, then we are already somewhere under the middle of EU Member States. Therefore, if we are calling, and we are often calling for us to see that we often copy tax systems of developed European states and other European states, if we were to stick to it, then we would just cut special taxes and not special ones, and it was precisely from the part of the opposition through this tax reform, several times the need to reduce not specific taxes, I am speaking from a short, lethal review where Croatia is, in relation to European countries, when it comes to VAT or special taxes, and I think that this decision to reduce the overall VAT rate, and even since 2020, 1.1, I think it is well-designed. And I would disagree with those who say that the reduction in VAT rates from 25 to 13% is low, it's at the price of the final product 9%. This is therefore at the price of the final product 9% and in the market economy system, I believe that competition will sharpen and that there will indeed be a reduction, as much as we think that, for example, traders will not reduce the price of the final product but rather leave it equal to that difference to leave it to themselves. I think competition will force the market in a certain way And with that I end up here, Mr. Vice President, it means to force them to go into a price reduction because it's not a small amount of this, especially at the final price of the product. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Finish your thought, thank you.]] Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102421	Thank you. We have two replicas for you, first colleague Gordan Maras, here's your colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102422	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, you've talked very optimisticly and with a lot of faith about these changes to the law but we can't get away from the fact that the vast majority of citizens expected more especially when it comes to the situation where we're talking about positive growth or GDP growth and where you're now talking about some billions of kunas and it's known that GDP growth is 2% over 2 billion kuna more next year in the budget. So there was room for citizens to be given more through tax reform, meaning switching to 5,000 untaxable acts or personal deductions. And the other thing, what really hurts is a lack of understanding for public services. 3% is really small money that you're offering to people who haven't been getting what they deserve for years. He needs these public sector salaries especially with teachers, Health professionals, social workers more significantly increase [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you. Finish your thought.]] And unfortunately, the government doesn't. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102423	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I understand your suggestion, but I believe that this proposal that the SDP has proposed does not affect the goal that you are declaring. I argue that with this approach in the fact that millions and 500 000 of the most threatened are not at all in income tax scissors, that this measure, with 7,500 untaxable annual income, will allow that part to be helped, as well. And when you're talking about raising 5,000 kunas of personal deduction, then we need to know that in this way we're taking huge funds to local self-government units, and I wish you'd taken that measure with them and let's hear what the local self-government units think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102425	Thank you. With us are students of the Engineering Transport School in Varazdin at the gallery, so here we warmly welcome them all. We welcome you. Thank you. We'll continue with the replica. [[Applause.]] The other one's a colleague of Shucker's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102426	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, you mentioned the Uljannik Shipyard. Therefore, the activation of guarantees that took place between 2012 and 2015 reduced the potential of this tax reform by about 2.5 billion kuna because if there were no danger of the activation of guarantees, the government would likely consider that this surplus in the 2.5 billion kuna budget shifts into some of these tax reforms. For example, this could reduce the health rate or pension rate by almost 2% and thus disburse salaries and increase income, according to... and, in a certain way, generated economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm sure it's one of the facts in which the government took care. The second thing, when each government proposes certain tax changes, it clearly follows its path. This government is about income tax and plan.../Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you. ...forthisyear...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102427	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, yes, I agree. I pointed out this in particular in the context of the fact that the possible and likely activation of these guarantees that were given to the greatest part of the year 2015, so almost before the government became, the Government of Zoran Milanovic became technical, that a large part of these guarantees are now threatening their activation, I do not know exactly when they will be activated, but that fact will certainly lead to an increase in the cost of the state budget or the reduction of surpluses. Whether or not we'll be in surplus, I don't know, we'll see it at the end of the year, but on the other hand, that fact can reduce Croatia's prospects for already in the 1st month. will raise your credit rating to investment level. That's where I showed my concern, and I'd like to invite the minister to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102429	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. In the first part of my debate, I will just briefly look back at certain provisions of the law, which I simply believe should be highlighted, and in the second part I will talk to the secretary of state, and I have already talked to the minister about it, simply toss out a topic that we in Croatia must finally start to think and solve, therefore, first of all, about value added tax. Somehow in silence, the provision passed, that for simple companies, which were passed in 2012, with the intention of facilitating entrepreneurs and opening business and business, businesses, however, you will, however, one provision in the value added tax law simply did not provide for something which was not in the VAT system, who during the year achieved through that amount which is bound to enter the VAT system, and at that time it was 180,000 is now 300, from 1.1 next year in the VAT system. What's going on? People opened up companies, closed down at the end of the year, so on. Mr. opened up and so there was a lot of praise and praise of the government's move that in these amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, it is clear that when an entrepreneur achieves a turnover of 300 thousand kn in this month, which is the limit for entering from VAT he is automatically sent. a month in the VAT system and it is in a certain way the protection of those who properly, fairly work, pay their taxes. As for the differentiated VAT rate, I'll... Just one sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we took the debates from the past 7-8-9 years in this House, so we would see that what the government is proposing now, to be taxed at the differentiated VAT rate, are many clubs that are so opposed today, they suggested that we do so. We simply must not think and think in such a way, when we are in opposition to speaking in one way and when we are in power to speak in another way. As far as income tax is concerned, it would only mention two things, one is the taxation of a 12% seasonal job. First of all, I mean taxation of workers in agriculture, and here I would like to commend the decision of the previous government, when it introduced that contribution voucher and now this 12% tax, I think first of all to farmers and all those who have been using seasonal work for several months will be very helpful and administratively relieved and thus easier to resolve that they are not afraid of when their inspection will come to the site or on their farm property. Contributions, something I was talking about when I was talking about on behalf of the club, so the time went out. So, what is the Ministry of Finance and Government's intention? When you look at all the efforts, all the finance ministers, no matter what political option it belonged to in previous years, patch up that health care and bring that health care to some level. But they're always created, you just patch up one minus, you create a new minus, and at this point, the health minus is somewhere around 8.3.4 billion kn, and it comes out of that 8.4 billion is somewhere around 3.5 billion kn. The intention of the Minister of Health and the Government is to abolish 2 contributions paid out of wages and thus reduce the employer's obligations by 2.2%, but at the same time, the health contribution increases by 1.5% and in such a way, health care that somewhere around a billion and 600 billion in 700 kn, with a desire and expectation that structural reforms will finally be implemented in the health care sector and that we will bring the system in order for it to be simply sustainable. So that's something now, and one move we're going to make, we're going to do when we pass this law, and the other move is expected to be sent. Mr. Look, if you pay someone something within 90 days, and by now you've paid him 300 or 360 days, so the logical thing is that he reduces the margin of his own, because he doesn't have to wait a year to pay him something. And I think that this move, if both sides, so to speak, positive answers, that this move will be good and that ultimately, more in this Visko home, we will not discuss how many health minuses they are and how they will cover them. I say, all the governments in the previous years, no matter who they were, have worked hard and fought, because maybe with education it's the most important resort in society because we can all yell at the health care center, until we're either one of our sick people, then that's our priority. But, therefore, we must create conditions, and we must ask them to behave properly. And the four things I want to point out, which were not discussed, which I also said to the minister in the replica. This is the change in the income tax rules, where the 2.5 thousand kn, which so far has been applied exclusively to Christmas, regression, resurrection or what was called, is increasing to 7.5 million kn. However, the government has clearly withdrawn, 7.5 thousand kn, pardon. The government clearly pulled a distinction there. So, 2.5 thousand remains, and 5 grand is added as some kind of payment or some kind of 13 salary or as we're going to call it colloquial, but what we need to recognize here, I think the greatest benefit of this is going to be for those employees who are not currently in tax scissors. Because their employers, they won't have to pay their pension or health care. And I think that's something that's good. However, what I would like to say here today, encourage the Ministry and the Government to think, which is financing and taxing sports primarily amateur. My colleagues and colleagues are playing in amateur sports every weekend in Croatia, at all ages, so I can say several thousand games and almost 7-8 thousand games. At these games you have official persons, whose fee is about 50 or 60 kn. You have to pay some contributions to that, this stuff, a bunch of paperwork, I'm talking about amateur sports. Also a lot of people, who are coaches or something, for some minimum fee they do in that sport, it just needs to be defined. You should say, that's how it's going to work, can we get through these 5,000 kn now? If clubs sign with young perspective players, scholarship contracts, we can go through these scholarship agreements, it's a question for the future, but I'd like to finally settle it. Why? Because that sport is the biggest ambassador of our country, and I would just like us to pass funding laws, pay some taxes, because why? Because this sport is funded in the finality of the local budget, you know that every local budget when it is passed, brings in one act called meeting the general needs of culture and sport. So, it's funded from the local budget, and I'd like to finally define it, and the fees on amateur sports, let's play professional sport, that's a story for myself, but in the last sentence, I'm going to say something about it, but this, when the Sport Act is passed and something that I think we should regulate, and to help the mayors in this way, it would help the mayors, it would help the presidents who are for social activities, that we could simply have these things under control, because this is how you can be sure things happen. Now, look, colleagues and colleagues, is it okay to say some player comes from America, you give him a temporary residence, and then he opens a craft in Croatia so he can play basketball or what I know, something like that? It's not. That's ridiculous. But if we regulate this law that if he is registered to retirement and health care in Croatia, beyond being paid to tax at a rate of 24%, to give him a flat rate, let's say 30% of the costs, then there is no such thing, then it's regulated. And then if we pass such laws, then we can attack all those who don't stick to it. However, as long as we stand like this, we are called when we need to, because we have even changed the Sport Act because of individuals, but that is what is not good. Look, today is a crazy game for Croatia-Spain, it was wonderful to see our football players unite us, but these football players are the product of this amateur sport. You, for example, in basketball, you have a week, actually on weekends you have 600-700 games of younger age, in football you have over 3,000 matches, and we simply need to think about how to law it out, how to make it, and of course, as a roof law, strategy on sports development and the Sport Act, and then we will help our children first and foremost, we will help ourselves, we will help the wider community, because there is no better fight than addiction, than sports. There isn't. There are no stronger and better things in this world. So if we define it this way, then one blow killed a lot of flies. So, with what I said forward, as far as the law is concerned, and with this proposal for some future thinking, personally, and in the name of the club, what I said, and I will personally support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102431	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of Branko Grcic's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Shuker, just so he doesn't stay in the air, so I'm here in my debate very clearly saying that it's an important restriction in this year, really this payment of boating guarantees, but I'd just like to be precise and for the sake of the information of our citizens to say, I've been very careful about these guarantees, so in the mandate of our government, especially in 2014 and '15. A total of 480 advance guarantees, EUR 480 million, pardon, advance guarantees, were issued in 2016-2018, so no guarantees were issued only between 2012-2015, as counterpart Bačić said, so we have to be very precise here, so HDZ governments continued to do so and came up to EUR 340 million in three years to understand each other, but it is all legitimate that we understand each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102433	Thanks, buddy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, buddy. Thank you, fellow Greek, thank you. Here you go, answer me. Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102434	I didn't say this, during one government, I said about 2012. That's one thing. So that's when you say it, but a fellow Greek remember one other thing. So, we discussed this a lot in 2012, here, the cost of restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding was 12 billion, all that cost was charged to the 2010-2011 deficit. The shipyards, on behalf of that cost, and what was provided to them under the Ministry of Economy, had to implement a certain restructuring programme. If they had spent it, they wouldn't be in the kind of trouble they are today. So, this is in the context of guarantees, it doesn't matter who gave them, but the important thing is that we Greek fellows have a structural problem on the spending side of the budget, and this structural problem, it doesn't know the political party, and the political option, it only knows the money of the Republic of Croatia, which unfortunately swallows.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102435	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102436	Thank you very much. In your debate, you have apostrophe of the problem and the activation of the guarantees, and how many have been issued, as far as they will be charged, something a colleague of Greece has said here as much as the guarantees issued in 2016, on what is the problem, I agree all this comes to the collection of Croatian citizens, but the problem is also, what the Croatian Government does not find a solution for our people, neither in Uljanik nor in 3. May, who now look at us, who expect theirs in the Oilman's wages, and at 3:00 p.m. May Minimals, whether they will be paid these days, and that's the problem that there's a lot of emotion talking about guarantees here, that it's going to fall on the back of other people, and the government and the problems it's supposed to be dealing with, doesn't know how, or when it's going to solve, that's the problem that our people are currently most burdened by Rijeka and Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102437	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102438	Comrade Maras, I would very much like to take out the discussion of the then Prime Minister, Minister of Economy from 2012-2013 and mine. So, at the time, you claimed to have restructured Croatian shipbuilding, so how did you restructure it if it's in trouble today? But my colleague, Maras, I didn't throw it to you, so one day learn your basic decency not to throw it away. So, again, you found the need to justify yourself, as soon as you found the need to justify yourself, means that Nejak is not there something wrong. According to this, the facts are neither escape nor the government, but you know well that the cost of restructuring Croatian shipbuilding is due to deficits in 2010, 2011. The second thing you did 2 days before you joined the EU of Croatia, so it was 29 or 30.6.2013. We've got him.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102439	Third line, Comrade Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Shucker, I was going to replicate this part that Mr. Greek said, so you explained it, but I'm going to add something similar to that. So, you mentioned the health system, we talked a lot of times about the health system recovery with 5 billion kuna, it seems to me that it was the end of 2013, the beginning of 2014 to generate a new debt in healthcare of around 5 billion kuna by the end of 2015. What I mean is, in this context and in the context of the current change relating to the contribution to health insurance, the health system generates a new cost of 10% annually in order to ensure additional treatment options, new devices etc., etc. So not to mention, I agree with you, which government was required to monitor the development of the health system, will it then escalate if it is not kept under control.../incomprehensible/... that's another thing, but regardless of how and how we access the funds The health system is necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102441	The answer to the replica, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102442	My colleague Bačić, when I spoke at the time of the club, said that things should not be taken out of the context of time and space when they happen, so when I came to the contribution, then I clearly pictured that this problem is a structural problem that does not know the political option, but spends daily and needs to be fed daily. Now the question is whether we're finally going to have the courage to change something to make it work, look, I'm the one who has listened to one of the best projects of the finance ministers here is this treasure, because all the state money is in one place and they're rationally used. However, someone remembered that it would save Croatian health care if the contributions from health care were removed from the treasury and then we would return the KBCs back to the budget, which today is the result of 8.5 billion total liabilities, somewhere around 3.5 billion made commitments. The Minister took the first step and the Government I hope the Ministry of Health will make Step two. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102443	And the last replica, to your presentation of the replicas of my colleague Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102444	Thank you, Vice President, dear fellow Schucker, I'm glad you mentioned this problem and the topic you've opened but here are representatives of the Ministry and the Tax Administration, so it's about many enthusiasts who now and at this point sports clubs all over the country, so when units of local self-government bring public needs about sports, when these funds are transferred to clubs, then really from transportation to organizing sports competition, these people are actually standing in some kind of a word, we're not going to say in a gray zone, but on the edge of legality, because how to ensure that with these small means. How, it would be good if at the level of the state to determine the payment of judges in.../incomprehensible/... sport would because these costs are the order of 70-80% of the costs of the general funds the club has, the clubs have, and it is more age than we said in football it is not just one judge that is more judges, so delegates and I am glad that you opened that topic up should certainly be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102445	Answer, here's a colleague of Shucker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102446	Thank you very much, colleague Sagar I'm sure that all of us in this assembly no matter what political option we belong to if we join as true lovers in sports we'll agree on how we'll deal with it, but if we start politicizing goes to hell. So, we need to be aware that a lot of people, a lot of their time, whether because of love, whether or not because of children, is not at all important to sacrifice for amateur sport. You have a lot of enthusiasts who also work around the stream, remember only on Saturdays to come to the hall and put your child and 3.4 other children in your car and drive in winter, in the snow of 70-80 km which is a risk, but it is part of love for sport and it makes sport. But to help this sport let's solve these minimum fees simply not to be taxed to solve this problem, and professional sport is a professional sport, it is also resolved by the Income Tax Act and the Contribution Act. And by the law of profit and all other laws. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102447	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is a colleague of Bunjac's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102448	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry, as I have already said in my previous debate, it is inevitable that Croatia is going to go to new economic problems and that this tax reform is not going to solve anything at all. Minister Maric, he made a major failure along with the entire government because he did not respond in time to problems in shipyards and he had quite enough information, he could hear, he could do something but he did not. And now Croatian citizens have to pay some EUR 500 million over the next 2 years that is holding the whole economy back and some kind of planned tax charge. This is why Minister Maric has announced his departure several times already, he probably remains in the government only because he has some debt to Andrej Plenkovic, whom he was so keenly defending during his recall and even because of him, he broke down the coalition with the Most formed in 2016. He can now do the only thing he can possibly do as his final seal is to open the budget deficit and he does it, but it is quite clear that there has been a major slowdown in growth, that this tax reform will not solve anything and that the Republic of Croatia is slowly slipping towards a new recession. If nothing else, it's slipping towards a new recession because all these measures don't stop mass eviction from the Republic of Croatia. And it's in vain to have infrastructure and raw materials and air and air and water and land and money and whatever you want if you don't have people, if you don't have labour, the economy can't go forward, it can't grow GDP, what would Zagreb be without people? Would Zagreb be a fortune? No, you wouldn't. It would be a bunch of concrete, stone, glass, wire, but it wouldn't represent wealth. Wealth becomes what we have around us here, only when people are here, people make sense, people give value, people create wealth. And people won't keep this tax reform in the Republic of Croatia, they won't. It will remain Minister Maric, will remain HDZ representatives, their mayors, because they are well, they will even have some raises, benefits, benefits, benefits, but those who are full of budget, which are workers, especially those in the real sector, they will leave and will not stop them from taking these measures that will take place since 1.1.2019. And it's unfortunate that today we suffer a demographic loss that is greater than a loss in the Homeland War, or if you want a loss in the Ottoman conquests. We return to the population at a time before the ban of Josip Jelačić. The Republic of Croatia is skating towards 3 million people, with the demographic structure still much worse because today more than 20% of the population is essentially the old population, the older population. You're leaving young, you're going educated, that gentlemen from HDZ, you've allowed our best daughters and sons to go abroad and you've brought down dreams for young people. Destroyed an entire one generation the moment we were supposed to prosper like never before. When we finally created an independent, independent, sovereign Republic. Instead of creating all the conditions for our people to traditionally be able and educated, in a country rich in resources, become an example of future generations, you have allowed an economic and demographic breakdown that is not remembered in modern history. Today, residents of the Republic of Croatia left second-class citizens, in their own country, to the mercy and mercy of foreign centres of power, and in particular to the financial ones. I repeat once again, these quasi reforms you only encourage people to continue to leave and leave, not only because of too little pay, but also because of all the injustice, the crimes you politicians have committed against them because of your betrayal. They're leaving not to work abroad, but to survive because there's no room for an honest man in this Republic. And that's why I can only tell you, in addition to your tax reform, that we in the Living Wall will not accept. Yes, Mr. Maric, who doesn't even listen to what I'm saying, that his announced resignation to go to Adris, Agrokor, where he's willing and to stop torturing this people with nonsense and cosmetic change. He himself knows, better than anyone in this Assembly Hall, that HDZ politics, the HNS government won't give results, so he's about to leave, and that's why he never joins HDZ, nor will. It's true to you gentlemen, and you just go ahead and buy some time, move the ball to not know which government will come in the future, like, I don't know, Mr. Stromar, like Mr. Tolusic, and I don't know who, but you need to know that you're in the same pot and that you're actually going to have to look at yourself in the mirror eventually, and every man's conscience comes sooner or later. You've really had a chance now, when so much a favourable economic environment, when you have such a minimal modest growth, something to do, now or never, you've had the opportunity to be brave, you've had the opportunity to be heroes, but you've decided to take conservative measures that don't go to anyone but yourself whose authority is their own purpose. And that's what will remain to be recorded in the historical court regardless of what any of us here today have been saying. You can fool the public, you can write fake pre-election programs, you can make wild promises, you can buy through piar articles in the media, but in the historical court none of us will be able to lie and it will be clear that one great opportunity has been missed, a great opportunity that perhaps could have turned a negative trend a little bit. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102449	Thank you. We have no replicas at your exhibition, we continue with an individual debate, the next is my colleague, Dragica Roscic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102450	Thank you, Mr. President. She would just point out, since his colleague Bunjac said that he would not remain behind us our words, but our results and I believe that that is the case, but it is our duty, that here next to the opposition MPs, as this debate develops, we still point out as the key point of this reform. And let's remind ourselves that we had a very big tax burden when we came to power, unsettled public finances, an excessive deficit and a low credit rating. I remind you that we had a deficit of 17 billion kn 2014 and the public debt reached 85% of GDP and that we were in the process of excessive budget deficits. All the indicators were negative at the time and we can say very well that those words of ours in the past 2 waves,... The cycles, these tax reforms, have given effect, because today we still have a share of public debt in GDP 74.5% and we have projections by 2021 to make it 65% and it turns out that our last projections were correct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also showed in 2017 forecasts for achieving surpluses that they were correct, so we had a surplus of the general state of 2.7, 7.5 billion kn, and even in the first 6 months. This year we have a billion-dollar surplus and 600 million kn. And we're aware that these are great results and we haven't had that result in years ago. GDP is constantly growing but on a healthy basis because we are not in debt. Interests on public debt have been lowered, loans also refinanced have reached 50m euros in savings. So I would also point out the positive sides of this reform, i.e. the 3 cycles of reforms that are ahead of us. So with this gentleman with these reforms that we're discussing today, we're expecting a new $2.8 billion disbursement for our citizens, a total of more than 6 billion for citizens of all three cycles of tax reform. We are also constantly trying to point out, regardless of these negative topics, that as early as December 1st, the rule will go in which we have an untaxable part of 7.5 thousand kn. We stress that non-receptive drugs from 25 are down to 5%, and this results in very large savings for our citizens, and of course for those who are not in tax-free shears, but that is why those products that buy will be much less burdened. Real estate tax is decreasing. We also have excise measures, which allow for greater investment in public transport. It would also point out that as far as payloads are concerned, there are also 900 million kn savings, of course it would be better if all of our salaries were higher and that we all have more money, but we have as much money as we have and we definitely see the difference and that discharge will make the citizens feel. So, when we discussed for the last two years, we were talking about what measures should be taken. The recovery was then mostly said, the food tax needs to be reduced, these measures are wrong, there is no benefit from them, now that the food tax has been reduced, talk about the reduction of the salary tax. But I remind you, when a reduction of contributions was introduced, that it was very stressed that it was a bad thing, that we would leave the units of local self-government without income, even though at the time we said it would be a balancing fund, which will be highlighted to all units of local self-government whose income depends exclusively on income tax. And it's just that the opposition is not credible, it's not consistent, and I want to stress it this way, and I don't want to talk any further and too much about all the positive measures, because they'll be able to feel it after 1.1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102451	We have one piece of co-worker Lucic, with time running out, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102452	Dear colleagues, you were talking about a surplus right now, you were talking about a reduction in VAT and imagine now that, if it weren't for these reform measures, how much surplus, far larger, would be based on VAT itself, so we've reduced VAT precisely to those goods, which are very important to our citizens, and we're just showing that this government, this Ministry of Finance really takes care of the citizens themselves, because in this way, we're gradually not doing all these reforms, the question is simply how much would it affect the citizens. And it's obvious that it's just the previous government that's also Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102453	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102454	Unfortunately, it happens from this assembly, as soon as the numbers are good, that this debate... one very interesting way, with a pause with insults, with an argument of whether someone said hello to someone like this, is it okay, that someone noticed something and some ordinary communication turns into a strong, strong communication, but without the essence of what we're talking about, and it's always like that when the indicators are good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's still a shame for our citizens, because they need to know that there were no new borrowings in the last year, and that's very important, because when we were somehow younger, at least with our generations, it felt like it was a lot of talk, you know, you're all so in charge, every year the debt is getting bigger and bigger. I don't think that story is good. And if, in the past year, we've achieved a surplus, yet citizens need to know that information, it doesn't need to be clouded that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102455	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Any change in favour of Croatian citizens is good in some way. But when you have a chance to do something and you see an injustice in the proposed legislative changes you can't be even if the minimum change is in favour of Croatian citizens because something can be done that's much better. Here, let's just take these income tax changes where 2% of all employees or less than 2% of all employees in the Republic will feel some benefit. 90 and more than 98% will feel nothing. Let's take one person who might be able to get a job in a big Croatian concert for the next month, two, three, maybe, let's say it's Adris, for example. And there will be a salary of 60 thousand kuna or 70 or 80. Such a person, of course, will benefit directly from this tax reform, a direct benefit such as an average Croatian net salary. This average man who works for those 7 thousand or 6 thousand and 200, 300 kuna average salary or, of course, if we look at a media salary that would talk about how many half the employees in Croatia have, so that's even below that, he'll get zero. And then you tell me how fair it is and how did the government of the Republic of Croatia help these people? This manager in some concert that makes 50, 60 thousand kuna, a gross average kuna, an ordinary citizen of 0. And it can be helped and it can be given the opportunity for a person to earn more or not to pay for a certain increase that would otherwise have to be paid. Here we now have an amendment that an untaxable prize, Christmas Eve, etc. can be given on an annual basis. up to 7.5 thousand kuna. Okay, okay. But that's why we're not, for example, now that the state's looking for employees, it means crying out for jobs for some that aren't there. When we have balanced public finances which, according to ruling statements, are such that it will be in the future that public debt will fall in GDP, why, for example, we have not allowed another yearly or two yearly salary to be paid on which no taxes and contributions would be paid. The 13th and 14th salaries, so that employers decide whether to approve their employees in such a way as to improve the status of all those employees in the Republic of Croatia because the problem and why people leave is low wages from the Republic of Croatia and in the private and public sectors. I was talking about the scandalous relationship between the government of the Republic of Croatia and public officials who are most wanted in some other countries where both health care professionals and teachers, teachers, etc. and are offered by the government a 3% increase. Transferred to a teacher who works 40 years in a Zagreb elementary school is offered an increase of 150, 160, 170 kuna at monthly level and that is still much less than the average salary in the city of Zagreb. What occupation is driven by a man or a teacher to do additional work so that she can eat. On this side, we see what the priorities of the government are, we see that they did not recognize at all what the problem of leaving is, and in fact it is the greatest demographic measure, to allow people to have their average salary higher because in Croatia the average salary is three times lower than in the EU and prices are just as I said it earlier. When we switch to some other things and reduce VAT to certain food products, which I think is OK again, but then when you look at it, you see that this proposal de facto goes to the detriment of the great part of our hosts in the Republic. Here's the proposal, as it will allow people to buy cheaper food and meat, excuse me, meat and fish, and on the other hand, when our caterers, who have been punished by this government at the beginning of their term of office and returned the VAT in hospitality to 25%. Now he's punishing them further because their entry costs will be higher in their companies than they were yesterday. Yes, yes, Mr. Shucker. If their input VAT is smaller then it's clear they have a lower cost, they... Well, you wouldn't believe it, but I'm an economic genius to you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Doncic: Please, please, you have a replica, don't...]] So, although it's not hard to be, but I am, here. So on the other hand, on the other hand, you can talk to the entry costs of the caterers tomorrow when you go to lunch or something like that, ask people what they think about it and whether it will be cheaper and easier to do business after this measure has been taken, or if it was easier for them before. Because if they're not going to have 25% of VAT for the cost they're going to have 13, so 12% is the difference. And that anyone who thinks a little bit will understand what is being talked about here so that once again, an effective measure in catering, an effective measure in catering could only be the return of the VAT to 13% and I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not done and has not recognized. I don't know why, I guess it's estimated that VAT is a significant income and that the tax can be taken at the end of the day, and that it could potentially compromise the revenue side of the budget, but if we look at how it worked together and where we've been growing in recent years, this industry is something that needs to be supported, and what can, in part, allow growth in the Republic of Croatia to continue. On this side I will not support these changes for these, I have said a few reasons, so I am not against people having 5,000 more per year non-taxable, but I am rather willing to allow them another salary or two salaries, so that people can in this way, employers think, pay bigger amounts, and I am also not about to talk about some tax charge that applies to less than 2% of employees in the Republic, and for the IT sector, it is not interesting, nor for those who are missing in the Republic because it only applies to those who earn large amounts or those who have the ability to pay salaries that are more than 20.000,00 kn. So, it's sad, which at the moment when we can do something, we don't. When a financial opportunity opens up to give more significant support to our people, we still don't think about people who have average salaries, and these people leave the Republic of Croatia every day. Only if it may not be a strategy of the government of the Republic of Croatia because then a lot of people who leave their families, send their salaries to the Republic of Croatia and there we have a pretty positive balance on other countries. But it is not the sense of government, nor should it be the meaning of us who act in the interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102457	We have three replicas. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you and I asked Minister Marić one question this morning, and it was about this tax reform to benefit 2% of the richest employees, and it is not going to help the way we spoke by increasing the untaxable work to the amount of 5.00 kn, figures of more than 2/3 employees in the Republic. The minister replied that this was impossible because it would result in too much tax charge or too much tax revenue. However, I'm not an economist, so I'd like to ask you to explain. But if tax revenues are not reduced and what the Government is proposing does not reduce tax revenues and the fact that these 20,000 richest in the Republic of Croatia will now pay a drastically lower tax than they have paid so far? Among other things And the minister tomorrow, the day after tomorrow when he works for Adris. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102459	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102460	Well that answer was given to you by the Government itself, they boast that 3 billion kunas are given as if it were money that is by the Holy Spirit, the government's money, and then she can give around to anyone she wants, which is basically taxpayers' money that they pay in the state budget and it's only a matter of priority. So the government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric decided to help those who are the richest. It could be about this or that reason. Maybe it's because you're disbursing a salary of £50,000 that someone could possibly be incomeing, and maybe they could be more correct and do what we suggest, go after it to increase their personal deduction, so that everyone in the Republic has a chance to get a slightly higher salary. There's a very clear message here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which is the difference between SDP and HDZ. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102461	Thank you. Next is my colleague, Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102462	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, here you are in your debate most now, you have touched this very proposal, or an increase of the Government which wants to increase the potential of the non-taxable part, meaning, from 2,5000,00 kn to 7,500,00 kn. And I would like to say that neither we are all here in the Parliament economic experts, nor are all citizens economic experts, but we are guided by a healthy logic. Well, we can really question some things about this. What concerns me, and I believe that some economic experts, as well as citizens, are also concerned about the possibility that this suggests that there is a possibility of manipulation. That some employers will be able to use this possibility to increase the non-taxable part or payout for each month non-taxable payments [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Instead of pay raises [[Intruder: Thank you.]] i. e. Thank you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102463	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102464	Thank you very much. Well, people can use it for various purposes, but I'm not against it in principle, and if you've been listening to the debates, I've suggested that one or two salaries be allowed annually to be paid in this way. It would be a real measure to help companies pay at less cost, higher wages. Because at this point in the Republic of Croatia is very difficult to get in some industries, employed, competition is great, people are leaving the Republic of Croatia and any normal government would think about essentially. How can I see that Mr. Shucker is not clear yet, but I'll explain to him, I'll give him a free course from here five minutes after this session, he's still having a discussion with his colleagues from the tax administration, and it's clear to them, and it's not clear to him, but I'll explain to him, So on that side, any government would think about how to help those with an average salary or below the average salary and not those who have... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102465	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation is a colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I think you're witnessing a complete madness within yourself these days. You see for yourself... [[I beg you, please...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102467	Please, just a second, please. Please, please, please. Go ahead, go ahead, you can go ahead. ... /Subject Voter: May I? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Voter: They are not finished yet.]] Comrade Shucker and colleague Maras, here I am, please, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, I think you're also a witness to the last few days of total chaos and madness in the government. The education minister says she doesn't have to pay for the educators' salaries due to the Oilics and the prime minister doesn't spend an hour, defuses the same minister who is in his government and says that the growth in the salary of the Enlightener actually has nothing to do with the situation in Uljanik. But one thing's for sure. We also had problems with salaries and educators and we didn't exactly do what we wanted because we didn't have the conditions for it, but now that certain preconditions have been created, there is actually a bad practice to continue to be enlightened, those who carry the future of Croatia, they don't care about them, and for those who earn more than 17 500 kuna in Croatia, which is a small but rich part of Croatia, unfortunately they will profit from this tax reform. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102469	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102470	Thank you very much. It's embarrassing, once again, to say that public services are offered 3% and should support them in a protest against the government and do everything to correct it. It is 600 million kuna at an annual level for people who haven't been paid for years and if in 4 years the average net salary in Croatia increases more than 10%, do we offer these people 3%? So come on, please. It's humiliating, these people, I said, in health care, in school, in education, social workers are underpaid. And instead of buying and having our minister strut in uniform in military exercises and spending so much money on other things, we need to invest in people, so that people don't leave Croatia. That's where we boast, that's where we spend, and people invest, nothing. So you need to support people in every way and in a protest on the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102471	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Miranda Mrsic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102472	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, and the path towards good intentions is sometimes filled with wrong moves. It is a good intention to make it possible for employers to pay 7500 kuna untaxable and thus enable employers to give workers what they generally deserve but you have opened a big, big question for their future or for their time when they retire because these 7500 kunas do not pay contributions. This means that these 7500 kuna will never be seen in their pension, which for someone who has an average salary, is not so small and I am afraid that ultimately this measure will not bring workers well but will bring them to their wages less because, quite certainly, what she said and colleague Alfirev will be the employers, not that he will not want to raise the salary but a part of the salary they paid with contributions, he will put under these 7500 kunas. You don't have any anchors in your laws, no option how you're going to control that employer to someone who paid 5,000 kuna a month, pays 4500 and 500 kunas to him as a reward, supplement, whatever you want, untaxable. And so from year to year, year to year, looking at such a quick calculation, one can make up to 10, up to 20% less pension when we talk about salaries that aren't high wages. Therefore, I think it was smarter to go the other way, which is to allow employers that the state is less expensive and the reason why you collect taxes, each finance minister and there is also a colleague, Shucker, collecting taxes to finance the state and everything the state has to finance. And the way it's supposed to be done is for the state to get cheaper and the taxes to be smaller for everyone. What will happen with this now, again, I warn, with 7500 kuna, that is 1000 euros a year, is not a small figure, and this will lead to citizens who are going to retire having a smaller pension. And I don't agree with a colleague, Maras, who says that this is the way not 7500 kuna should be paid, but two salaries should be paid, and then we pay everything without contributions and without everything, and then I wonder how someone will retire, from which his pension will be and how that pension will be paid, or how he will count pensions for that citizen, citizen, worker or worker. Therefore, it is always necessary to look at what this means in the long term for workers and for their age and for their future. You could also make one step forward with these laws to apologize to the citizens for that privatisation, not you personally, but your party, HDZ, for the privatisation of the '90s, for that coupon privatisation where coupons were shared to the workers and then bought out in another way to privatise companies, which is that you promoted working stock. In this area you did not take a single step, and for me it's a bigger thing than these 7,500 kunas, because according to the current laws of the stock when you buy them or when you sell them twice, it's not that if you buy them, then it's not as part of your income, but it's out of the question that you're taking tax on, and therefore, working stock is at very low levels, we have very few companies that are privatised in this way, we have some that have been successful, some that unfortunately haven't even been successful. And now it is an opportunity for workers to live in Croatia as a model for workers to influence and participate in the company's work. It is not that some of your parties have repeatedly stressed the return to working self-government, we will never return to it and these are the paces to pass, but what we could promote is that in Croatia as many companies as possible are owned by workers because they can be very good employers and manage companies better than those employers who are themselves and who see here in many cases have led to major problems. And it is not only a trend that is in Europe that is now spreading and in America, and I am sorry that you did not pay attention to it and in the Income Tax Act you did not give one wind in the back to bring labour stocking back to life in Croatia and to be one of the models in which companies should function. To note that there is a special labour fund in our neighbouring country of Italy to encourage labour stockholders in which it makes it easier for workers to buy and finance the purchase of shares of their businesses through this fund. And if you had made such a step and made it possible for such a fund to live in Croatia, both employers and trade unions, unfortunately in all the laws, were not in these laws, not a single step made towards that direction. So once again, I will submit amendments that are going in this direction to reconsider that in Croatia it would be good for the future of Croatia, for the future of Croatian companies and Croatian workers to make it possible for working stock in Croatia and for Croatia to side by side with European countries where labour stockholders are increasingly taking over. The laws are there they will be implemented, but what I would also like to plead is to pay attention to these 7,500 kunas which are untaxable and there are colleagues from the IRS to pay attention to those companies as well as those employers who will behave unfairly not marketable and thus gain advantage over honest employers that through these 7,500 kunas do not pay regular salaries and that workers in Croatia in the future have fewer pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102473	We have two replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of Alpharev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102474	Thank you, Vice President, Mrsic, here is a good thing that you have apostropheded once again this particular problem of possible negative consequences that can cause just an increase in the actually untaxable amount that can be paid annually. It actually opens the way to possible manipulations among those employers who have never really played fair before, and who have actually paid off a single amount of money, and now this can really open up a legal way of what has been done so far let's say illegally. Now I can legally pay off a certain amount every month and not pay off the contributions and all that. Otherwise, it goes through the pay. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102475	Here's your answer, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102476	That fellow Alfirev is one of the problems, and what is seen in Croatia for years is that in some companies the minimum amount is paid is what is legal, and that the rest is given on hand, under the table and in another way, is avoided, the payments to the state are avoided, workers are at that point well because they get paid the one they agreed on with the employer, but in the long term it is lost and the state is lost and working alone because when they retire they will then have a lower pension because this part that is given under the table does not count on when the pension is calculated. And it's going to happen with these 7,500 kunas because now, employers who could pay it off in 12 months, and now we can't plan it, so they're planning on making so much pay cuts next year and then making a profit for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102477	Thank you, colleagues of the Temple.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102478	Dear fellow Mrsic, with these untaxable 7,500 kunas or an additional 5,000 kuna will be as much as it has been before, but one thing is for sure that with not touching the minimum wage we still retain all those who are on a minimum salary in the status of the poor, which is for one serious and we want to be a serious social state something scary, to work, you are busy, and the poor you can't ask for social help because you can't, you can't, you can't feed your family. And we'll always keep low-acculative jobs, we won't develop, we won't buy new technologies, we'll be competitors on the world market and we'll sell extra value products... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102479	Thank you for your response. Here you go, Comrade Miranda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102480	The problem of minimum wage is a problem for many years, HDZ has been trying to solve it with one law, which has led to minimum wages being frozen for years, has gone the other way and I am sorry that HDZ has not taken advantage of this moment to redefine this minimum wage in another way, because the company cannot have minimum wage and engineer and that worker, who has medium or professional equipment or lower professional equipment. The minimum wage, unfortunately, serves some employers as an unfair measure to raise their own competitiveness towards honest employers. And I'm afraid that these 7.5 thousand kn, along with the minimum wage, which should be much higher, will lead to workers having their own salary, but will not contribute to pensions and that pensions will be less, and that the state will be at a loss because it will not have the contributions it has, so it will have to be achieved for the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102481	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Peja Grbin, here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For a long time, there has been a paradigm creation in Croatia, where the economy cannot be successful unless it drastically reduces taxes. Interesting, for example, in the United States of America, in the so-called The golden age of the Truman crossing to Eiserhauver, some 60 years ago, do you know what the highest income tax rate was? 90%. And yet in the U.S., they were making the biggest economic growth in their history. No matter what is at the head of that state, at some point a Republican. So those who would be considered crystal conservative. But good. I'm going to ask one question in this debate, and I hope to get an answer from Mr. Secretary, and the question is like that Private V song. And the question is, how is Slovenia currently having more economic growth than Croatia? How's that? Slovenia, for example, has a higher profit tax than Croatia, but is making more economic growth, is that normal? From what we heard from the minister this morning, he didn't. And that shouldn't happen. But it's not the end. Slovenia, which is more than twice the population of Croatia, has 950,000 employees per some 2 million inhabitants. Croatia has over 4 million employees, with a million and 600 thousand employees. So how come Slovenia has more employees per population, while, at the same time, watch out now, shock and infidelity, Slovenia is the highest income tax rate of 50%. So give me some people to explain that this Slovenia has not failed. Since this Slovenia has not failed, when they have a 34% tax rate comparable to our 36% tax rate, it starts at some 20,000 euros. So how come not all the wealthy Slovenians escaped from Ljubljana with their heads and sought salvation in, say, Bulgaria with their... of 10% with which they are at the end of the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How's that? I don't get it. Is there a conspiracy here, is someone sabotaging Slovenia? I simply want the minister to answer that question. I want an answer to this question, how Slovenia has one of the most successful manufacturing industries in the EU, when you look at the ratio of the industry to the total economy, when you look out for it now, is the minimum wage of 840 euros in Slovenia. Well, you're ashamed I can. 840 euros, they pay minimum wage and create new jobs for their 2 million inhabitants, create new jobs at speed as well as Croatia. And with us, as the distinguished former minister taught us this morning, and today my colleague Mr. Schuker, this 460-euro salary, as it is now minimal, is almost asphyxiated by the Croatian economy. You just have to wonder how? In Slovenia, 20 km from us, it works, and here it doesn't. And here we will be saved only and only by the fact that for the 20,000 richest in this society, we will allow them to become even richer tomorrow. And nobody wonders how we're going to make sure to improve the provision of public services. You're talking here today, I've had a chance, I'm going to call on Mr. Shucker again, because he's talked about it nicely, and Mr. Maric mentioned it, you mention it here, to the reduction of the expenditure side in health, to the restructuring of health care, etc. Wait a minute, what political option is that coming from, the Minister of Health for the last three years? From what political option comes the Minister of Health, whose mandate have extended waiting lists and increased debt in health, after being drastically reduced in 4 years? If you look at the statistics during my colleague Varga, by some parameters of the health system, we have reached Austria. Yes, we did laugh you, Mr. Shucker, it wasn't me, it was established by EUROSTAT and published. Wave to Mr. Shuker, wave, close your eyes to the truth. Today, we are by these same criteria last. When we were 40... in the world, then your colleague who is now not sitting there behind you, Domagoj Milosevic, said it was only because of the change in the modality of the calculation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We came to the 40th place in the world, and we were not satisfied with it, and we felt that we needed to go better. You, your lucky former Deputy Prime Minister, said your job was to improve that by 10th place. You haven't improved it by 10 places, you've improved it by 18 places. Well, now we're not 40 anymore, but if I'm not mistaken in the 58th world. And since this Slovenia, they can be ashamed with a 50% income tax, with a profit tax that is higher than in Croatia, with a minimum salary of 840 euros from Croatia, in all indicators of success and economic growth, better. And now, to make the paradox bigger, that Slovenia has recently been declared one of the two best countries to raise children in the world, according to UN assessments. And how? Because among other things and such high taxes, they ensured the delivery of public services. They have provided continued and clear incomes from which public services, among other things, health care, education and all that we swear, which is why some of them here, mostly not in the assembly, changed their uniform and entered the ruling coalition, are allegedly doing so and are now doing nothing about it. Dear Mr. Minister, I told you a month ago when we talked about tax reform, I'll tell you now. You can opt for one approach to reform and you can do the same way Donald Trump does in the United States, say we will increase or reduce the tax burden on the richest and allow them to increase revenues. It is legitimate and it represents something that is a neoliberal economic policy that is similar to certain right-wing parties. But then say it openly and don't lie to us like you've been doing all morning. Don't lie to us that you can't cut taxes or increase tax discharge for all citizens because this would be pressure on local self-government, and this represents it. And this represents him. And in no word will you compensate for it. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, what you're doing is very simple and it's helping the rich to be even richer. I'll end up here with this debate, first of all, focused on some general indicators concerning tax reform, and I'll point to something concrete again, something I said during the first reading, which unfortunately you haven't corrected, which is income tax with private renters. Dear Mr. Minister, for years we have encouraged private renters to invest. We promised them a whole series of investment-enhancing measures that, as a rule, had not been realized in the last year. In return for these investments, for the quality of private accommodation which was in Pula was the bearer of this season because if there were no private accommodation based on the hotel and some other accommodation that enters the statistics, there would be a decline in tourist traffic in this year and thus income, private owners are... I'm telling you about Pula, Mr. Minister, the data is the Tourist Board, I didn't make it up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Private accommodation helped the tourist season increase traffic and thus increase revenues. This will make the state budget better charged. What is the reward for private accommodation? We've increased their residence tax, and now we're going to increase their income tax. I have submitted two amendments, one I have submitted where I suggest you completely delete this measure and I know you won't accept it, and in some ways I can understand it, you said very clearly, in 2004 it's been specified this cobweb, some things have changed since then. The fact is, and you're right again, it's increased both traffic and income, but then don't let that increase be from 300 to 1500 kuna. It's a five-fold increase, it's almost unmarked. That's why I've submitted another amendment and I'm asking you to consider it. And that's the amendment to limit this increase to 600 kuna. In this way, local self-government units will be allowed a certain increase in income and compensation for the costs they have and yet the impact on private tenants will not be as strong as they will surely be in some units of local self-government waiting for the second day after the entry into force of this law, lift the pause to 1500 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102483	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of the Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102484	Dear counterpart Grbin, it is not the saying that in Croatia only taxes are too high because I think it may be in one exact but not in income tax. There should be taxes where you said they weren't there and that's on those very high wages and other rates because it would suit a social state. However, contributions are said to be too high in Croatia. I must say, when you compare it with other Western European countries and beyond, that we have almost the least contribution rates for retirement and we have high contributions rates with health insurance, which pretty much confirms that our health system is a well in which we can put as much as we want but that we will not be filled and that it will also praise us for our pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102485	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrelja, Croatia's problem is not so great in the part where we talk about how the state makes money. Of course it would be better if the IRS acted more as a friend, as an instructor to entrepreneurs instead of acting as someone who collects a hack. However, the much bigger problem of the Republic of Croatia is not since yesterday and it is not just Minister Maric's responsibility, so it is responsible for a whole series of governments, almost all of them, if not all of the 90s, the problem of how money is spent and money is spent irrationally in this country. We, and with these funds that we collect, don't manage properly. Our bureaucratic apparatus is slow, our bureaucratic apparatus is users, and these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it does not provide that service even for what they pay for. And that's where the RH problem lies. And that's what this government does for absolutely no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102487	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102488	Comrade Grbin, you were talking about health care and Slovenia and I would only quote two facts that maybe Minister Maric should have known at the time he decided to raise the health leave and that health care would get the new two billion. Thus, 93 deaths in Italy, 128 in Slovenia, and 216 in the Republic of Croatia could be prevented in 100,000 inhabitants in Italy. The Republic of Croatia is the only country in which it grows. We don't differ according to these countries or the equipment or the number of CTs, we even have more, magnets, drug availability, but obviously we differ in the organization of the system itself and what's now being done in these laws, two billion more will be inserted, but the outcomes will remain the same because there's no courage to reorganize healthcare.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102489	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102490	Dear fellow Mrsic, I recently visited an ambulance doctor, I had a minor car accident and in a conversation with him, I asked him if he was thinking about leaving the Republic of Croatia, and he said yes. I asked him, I assumed that's the main reason, is it because in the Republic of Croatia his salary is small, and let's say by going to Germany or Ireland, he'd make a bigger one. He said, you'll be surprised, but it's not that much of a payoff problem. It's not that much of a pay problem, my salary is quite decent and I can live well here in the Republic of Croatia. However, the problem is the organisation of work in the hospital. What's going on here is driving me crazy, you don't know who's drinking and who's paying. I see everything around me spending money irrationally, which is what a respected colleague of the coat of arms is to me, full of hats. And that's exactly what you're saying right now. How do we spend the money we take on citizens? About this side of the assembly [[Intruder: Thank you]] from this government [[Intruder: Thank you]] No one thinks, and they don't care. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102491	Here you go, colleague Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102492	Thank you very much. It often happens that when a person of authority becomes an opposition to amnesia or forgets that he was once in power. So when you mention all those tables that suit you or are close to you, how you couldn't remember the 2014 table where, say, the World Economic Forum, put you in the 6 most inefficient government ever. So, in front of you were just Venezuela, Chad, Libya, Lebanon, Argentina and Mauretania, so I guess they were measuring something, too, but they forgot it and said that you're unrealizing money, this government is not rational. They increased public debt by 80 billion in their 4 years. They never passed the bills, what problem did they solve, what major infrastructure project did they build, and where did these money ever end? What they were dealing with in the first place with all those 20 billion deficits and all those credit ratings that just fell and all those GDPs that each quarter was falling, and you're saying today that this is the worst or I don't know, the most inefficient government, that they don't know what they're doing and that they're irrational. They spend, I mean, so how does that happen to you? [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102493	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you are one great miner in your work in HS, but a miner who constantly digs through everyone's past and never remembers his own. However, I don't want to talk about mining, I want to talk about how the Republic of Croatia will see in 5, 10, 15 or 20 years. Because if I wanted to miner, then I'd ask a question about how someone who was a secretary of state at Mr. Calmeta's Ministry, while all those malversions were going on that kids in schools knew about, they didn't see it. Since he wasn't this loud back then, that he didn't come out and said I wouldn't take this crime. I'd be in your shoes, I'd be covered in ears, and I wouldn't come out of shame at all, but you don't have that problem. And I'm just gonna say one more thing to you doing business 40, 58 40, 58. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102495	We're continuing an individual debate. Next is counterpart Ivan Lovrinović, please welcome colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In every country where wages are good, where a man can live well from his work, he gladly pays taxes and does not discuss whether tax rates are high or not. But in what country, in which country can a worker have a good salary? Where production, where the system is organised, where economic policy is good, therefore, it will achieve the pay that suits it. This is obviously not a situation in the Republic of Croatia, and that is why governments have been entertaining us for years of constant stories and changes in the tax system, changes in tax laws, and we see that any change in electoral, uh, tax law in the low wage environment is not good for anyone. I can also say that fiscal capacities in the Republic of Croatia have long been exhausted and the Republic of Croatia is one of the world's most tax-laden states, or above all in the EU. In this context, I would also like to say that the Croatian tax system has changed at least once every year, and that the basis for taxation in fact is consumption and is still consumption. We keep listening to the prime minister's and his ministers' stories about the economy growing. We gentlemen of GDP growth almost don't have any. Why? If we take data from competent institutions that publish statistical data, then we will see that from 1990 to the end of 2017, the Republic of Croatia grew only 19%, I repeat, from 1990 to the end of 2017, the Croatian economy grew only 19% annually and somewhere around 0.6% annually. This was cumulative, and this is 0.6% a year. If the Croatian economy has increased 19% in 27 years, Poland has increased 135%, the Czech Republic 88% and other economies 70, 60, 50%, etc. It says that we have never had a real model of economic policy and that all governments so far, regardless of whether they are run by this party or that party, and we know who has led Croatia over the past years, that they have implemented the same economic policy. There is no such economic policy and there is no hope that will be based only on fiscal policy and... To say, changing the tax system can do something drastic to improve our country's life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just not possible. That's why it's necessary to change the story, to adopt a new economic paradigm, because what's done over the past decades, looks like the following, as if you're looking at a skier, that one 500 meters should go up on skis, up to one height, after which it will descend elegantly, enjoy skiing. During that time, skiers pass by, pushing with two sticks, but our skier, these are our governments, they have only one stick in their hand, and this is fiscal policy, and while these others are already coming, the second, third time, to enjoy skiing, descend, he has not yet come down for the first time. What was I gonna say? You can't ski with one stick, with one hand, you can't swim, so you can't even run a fiscal policy with a total economic policy, and during that time you threw a second stick, that's monetary policy. She's been exhausting us for the past few years, why? Because with such high interest rates, which are exhausting both citizens and an economy with an unreal exchange rate, you've all been destroying this economy, these citizens that you've run this country for the past 20 years. However, I did not come here to accuse but if we already have a proposal for tax change, that we also change Croatia, that certain proposals, so that what is, to try to be better, would benefit our citizens and our entrepreneurs. The first thing I, uh, handed over this morning's amendments, four, five amendments, and what do we propose? First, increase the untaxable part of the salary, from €3800 to €5,000. You replied this morning that it was more or less settled, we think it wasn't settled, you say if it comes to that local administration, self-government won't have any income and we say, it's easy technically to solve that from the central budget, these same municipalities, so you channel these funds based on past Mr. In that sense, it's important to do that. But why is this even more important to do? Because if you don't raise the untaxable part to 5,000, the employer won't even increase the minimum, if you understand that story, it's connected. On the other hand, reduce VAT to drinking water in the household, from 13% to 5%. Ireland and some other countries give free water to their citizens. So if we're already paying for water and we're paying it dearly, even though we're one of the three richest countries in the EU, in Europe for drinking water supplies, so you take off that unfortunate tax from 13% to 5%. At every corner, where a man comes across in this country, he punches someone in the pocket, for this tax, for that income tax, VAT, for profit, and so on on excise duties, etc., etc. What's our 3 proposal? Reduce VAT on tickets to concerts and theatres from 13% to 5% you see all these are concrete things. You are the privilege we gave to those who have cinema halls, cinema operators, you gave them 5%, so why are you discriminating the theatre, why are you discriminating concert halls, so it's simply not reasonable, and you don't have any special revenue in the budget. Fourth party proposal Change Croatia, real estate tax, what are we proposing? So, people, stop the first real estate tax. Well, in this country, the most difficult problem is moving out, especially young people, so how do you plan on stopping them? You invented, your partners in HNS, POS programs, as something to pay them, half interest for the first 4-5 years. So you immediately with 3%, if a man took 700 thousand kn credit, you immediately have to pay him 21 thousand kuna and that's your missed policy. So please, I don't want to criticize you, change you, give it to the first real estate, so who affected you to get it back? That was once, put that back. It's a good story for all of us, especially young people. Next, the cash stamps were lifted. And that's what the minister determines what a monetary bonus is, so Mr. Maric, you're a doctor of the economy, so don't you see that it's a gray money show, don't you see that customerism is being created, so Agrokor has been doing it, others are doing it. So why do we need money stamps, if we have money, if we have bills, why do I have to go to that supermarket, to buy, so it's customerism, please, throw it out, don't put it in a position to criticize and accuse you afterwards. What's most important is gentlemen, these are real changes. Charge VAT 50% per invoice, 50% per charge, per realisation. Well, that's the real change that's gonna make the business sector breathe. I send a message to the Croatian employer's association, support this proposal, fight for it. Why? Because if you're paying 100% by invoiced realisation, VAT, so you're pulling out huge money, so liquidity, you can't, then you have to take credit from banks, banks are loaning you, and that's that closed circle that's destroying us. You see, respected citizens, if you listen to us, and you see that we know, we have people and young parties in this assembly, who know how to solve this situation, but what tough structures, who hear their interests, that won't be possible. In that sense, reduce fuel excise duty, at the Ministry of Finance. So look at 55% of a liter of fuel is about VAT and excise duty, so that's the most in Europe, so we don't know, we can't move one step away, that somewhere the state doesn't slave us, we can't live in such an expensive state anymore. I have some other suggestions I don't get in these 10 minutes I'll put them out in the amendments I just want to send you the following message whether there are solutions to optimism, these are small solutions, I welcome the decision to increase something with 7,500, but my people won't keep it from our citizens in Croatia, they have to raise wages here, wages can only rise with new economic policies and you're destined to run this, you won't get rid of it, and that's why new people, new parties will change Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102497	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit, first colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102498	Thank you, Vice President, I would like to join my colleague Lovrinović in this proposal regarding the reduction of VAT for theatre performances, other cultural events such as movie tickets, but I also believe that the same thing should be done for sports events, why not VAT 5% for sports tickets, and thus further strengthen the role of sports in Croatian society, so that it does not only come down to convenient events for athletes and the award of certain medals on certain occasions, I think that this would ensure that a number of young people attend sports events and that after that they are also engaged in sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102499	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102500	My colleague Jovanovic, of course, that I couldn't remember everything and cover it, but I absolutely agree, and here together I propose that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration sit here, so my people are so reasonable don't, let's not, don't banish the culture from these spaces, people don't have enough money anyway. It's a marginal item of my people, it's a marginal item, put this right on the tickets to sports events, for concerts, for theaters, but why you gave 5% to theaters, it's clear from the plane that someone was guessing you understand. Let's not let it go, let's even it out now, and I'll give you the first round of applause.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102501	Replica number two, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102502	Dear Representative Lovrinović, you know for a fact that the main problem of our country is not the distribution of money, but the process of creating it. You know for a fact that in a system where money only arises as a debt, money for interest payments cannot be paid back because it was never created, because only the principals of the loan were created, and all the total money came from eating by taking the loan. The second thing is that in our model where the central bank is a currency exchanger where the exchange rate is quasifixed that the external debt just flows into the interior and that the country is actually being economically exhausted, that the capital is extracted and that the profit capital is taken over by foreigners who then profit is derived from the country and ultimately ends with bloating and suffering citizens. I think you should put a big emphasis on that problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102503	Thank you, sir, for your reply to the replica of your fellow officer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102504	Comrade Pernar, you have said exactly this country, or we, in fact, are returning interest rates to my people, we need loans or bonds annually GDP growth of 3%, so we don't see it, so we can't reach the growth rate over 3% because economic policy is just based on fiscal it must be clear to everyone. We are imperceptible if it stays so, it simply must be clear to everyone that Croatia is working only to return interest, the principal no one has returned. Today someone boasted from the ruling party here that the debt had fallen, so my dear ones only reduced the debt of foreign banks to their mothers, the state increased even more its debt and some other sector. So, a whole new economic policy, a new economic policy of hope, and most importantly here, forgive me, my throat is torn because I'm a little bit cold, but we know that economic policy. but we need help. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102505	Here's a colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102506	Thank you, Vice President, I absolutely agree with my colleague, Lovrinović, with your presentation and I myself protocold on behalf of the MOST Club on a VAT amendment to reduce the water supply from 13% to 5%, so if we have bread and milk to 5%, I see no reason why not even one supplier at the invoiced price of water go to 5% to VAT, as far as we now know that in the system in Croatia where many public suppliers, or citizens, via public suppliers, are burdened with additional fees for the process of cleaning waste water and so on. I don't consider it good to raise an untaxable rate of tax on the income of an untaxable part to 5,000 kuna, since this is all going to the burden of units of local self-government, to agree with one part of you that this could easily be defined through certain benefits but look at every tax reform that has gone to the back of units of local self-government never returned as much as it has been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102507	Thank you. Here's your answer, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102508	You see, if this continues, we're going to have to be taxed and breathing means air, why, because our taxes are actually government budget expenditures are huge. The expenditures of the state budget are huge, which is the largest item of colleagues and colleagues there, interest that must be paid on debt, government debt. [[Intruder: Please, my colleague has an answer.]] They're only 10 billion kunas a year. I already suggested two years ago how we can cut it in half to save 5 billion kuna each year and save 5 billion kuna, so we don't even have to charge income tax, of course we need something, but so I can explain it to you to make it clearer. We could get better every year or health care or our pensioners to increase the level of pension means that they live decently, but again I appeal so it's not a problem here that every year the state is willing to pay huge interest twice as much as it needs to the banks, which is not a problem for it, but that's why it squeezes us at every step of the way. We won't accept that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102509	Thank you. We continue with individual debates next is colleague Zdravko Ronko, so he does not lose the right to participate in the wheel. After fellow Ronko, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102510	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues, and I think this package of tax reform laws should be commended in every respect. Since we are here today and we are discussing in the second reading, which means that all the suggestions and remarks we have had, not only us MPs in the Croatian Parliament, but also on committees that are well studied and numerous of these remarks, we have now in the final draft of the law regardless of which side of the assembly comes which should also be highlighted which is not a very common case. We should also say and remind ourselves, and there we have had a representative of entrepreneurs, representatives of craftsmen, as well as our Chamber of craftsmen of HGK who are also very commendable to this tax reform than to remove two contributions, a contribution to employment, then a contribution to the protection of health at work, and yet we give the accent to those who want to give something more and resources because we need this, for example. When it comes to contributing to health insurance, we know that only a healthy person can contribute to himself and to his family and society as a whole. And so here we see that even in the Value Added Tax Act, from the first to the second reading, we have had a change again, so the VAT rate of 5% has been reduced and applies to all medicines regardless of whether they are obtained on a prescription or not. Surely all those young families will be happy and I would say that this is a demographic measure that at the rate of 13% children's diapers will be taxed and we who live on tourism and on tourism by the sea are as happy as any household reduction in value added to everything, on delivery and on meat, edible products, fish, crabs, etc., about everything we've talked about so far. The HGK strongly points out and commends the change in the excise duty law where carriers say they will save nearly 300 million kuna. It is estimated that only in 2019 will energy excisers save around 294 million, 240 on the return of excise duties on cargo carriers and 54 million kuna on passengers. There has also been a change from 1st to 2nd reading, it also commends the president of the Road Freight Transport Association, which expects a positive impact on the reduction of carrier costs and thus on their competitiveness. Why I'm talking and reading this so it doesn't just turn out to praise HDZ and our coalition partners, but really people, the presidents of different associations also support these changes to all these laws. Furthermore, the President of the Road Travel Association points out a positive impact on the reduction of operating costs, especially those carried out by the transport of pupils in rural and poor areas of Croatia, whose lines have become invaluable due to the reduction of the number of pupils. Namely, here is the area of Sibenik-Knin County, Split-Dalmatia, in Dalmatia Zagora and nothing better is in Lika, Slavonia. We have a number of lines in which only a few students or a few of our citizens, workers in remote places whose costs of these lines are extremely high and hardly can be covered by parents with a price, nor can a carrier bear such costs. So we often witness that some lines have to be abolished and, of course, it has a negative impact again, and that is why we consider this both a social and a demographic measure, because it is most often a matter of removing a line that brings a child to school or our citizen to his workplace to think about leaving that environment, which is mostly about rural environments. I would like to wish that this Excise Act included the remark that I spoke about in my first reading, namely, when it comes to islands and island populations, I suggested that it would be good for blue diesel, or cheaper energy to enable our islanders to get and leave their own places of residence where they have olive trees or where they don't know their sheep in the Kornati or our caterers who have their own catering facilities in some specific places where they can't be connected to a public electrical network and their costs are significantly higher than those in the settlements. I believe that no matter what I answer, it is not in line with the 2003 Directive that the ministry will give additional effort and that it will also find ways to help those owners of family farms and these hosts. Namely, reading the Council Directive 2003/EC states that Member States should be able to provide the necessary flexibility in defining and implementing policies corresponding to their national circumstances. And Article 18 states that by way of derogation from the provisions of this Directive, Member States shall be authorised to continue to change reduced levels of taxation or tax exemption. So it finally states, so we have reduced rates of tax and exemption from such taxation in certain countries, for example. like Ireland even for the navigation of private recreational vessels. We also have this further in Finland and I am not reading other opportunities allowed by other EU member states. So I'd like to ask you to give extra effort to make this possible for our citizens. I recently appealed to the Ministry of Agriculture and spoke of the indifference that, for example, Likewise, the European Community and one directive do not allow our citizens in the coast to hunt nets and swimmers and here, after years of persistent work by the Ministry of Agriculture, last week Minister Tolusic announced that this is finally possible for our citizens, so I believe that regardless of this directive, you will give additional effort and make this possible for our citizens. I would also briefly refer to the Income Tax Act, there we heard one colleague, it is interesting to hear the doctor tell the other colleagues that we do not understand this tax reform, that we do not understand something about health care, I would accept it but there sits a number of economists and people who also have people who have very much and knowledge and former ministers, he says that we do not get this tax reform and it is terrible against what the annual tax base of 24% applies not only to those who have income per year from 210 000 but now up to 360, and at the same time it says that this government is the one that affects the most professional, most capable of our citizens, the most educated, abandons the Republic. I just think that this is the measure by which we want to show that we don't want to further punish these most capable citizens with a tax rate of 36% on their incomes and their personal incomes than we want to put them in the same category as those less say, capable. And here's the end, when it comes to income tax from renting rooms, I would once again point out that I think this is very good for cities and municipalities and their city councils. This is not an additional and more taxation but, in fact, it can be far less because the city or municipality can decide that everything with 150 kuna is taxed on the bed of its tenant citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102511	Thank you. There's a replica on your exhibit, that's colleague Ivan Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102512	Mrs. Juričev Martinchev, you know that the Croats came to the Adriatic Coast a long time ago and they could sit down by the coast for centuries and bring down the hook into the sea, they could fish without permission, for centuries, and in times of communism. However, today at HDZ's time in power, citizens cannot without special permits that they have to pay for, sit on the coast and bring down the hook into the sea. I find such a regulation unnatural, that it is a side to our people, our tradition and our culture. These standards, these measures, and this system of actually pressing the population, I consider it repression and I reject it with disgust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102513	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102514	Dear colleague Pernar, I didn't see that this paper was in this law today or that it was something that he brought either yesterday HDZ. Still, as we could have sat on the shore and fished in earlier years, as you say, and we can still do the same thing as we've done for the last 10 years. ... With the permission we needed 10 years ago and over, it's not something that the HDZ brought yesterday or today. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102515	Thank you. Next is colleague Marko Vesligaj, individual debate. Here you go, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102516	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here in my debate, I will briefly look at the implications that this tax reform will have on the budgets of local self-government units compared to the last tax reform that has brought a lot of positive things for most of the budgets of local self-government units and particularly cities, the municipalities have been much worse there. This proposal for tax reform, so the proposals for changes in income tax and the proposals for changes in real estate tax, unfortunately have a negative impact on the budgets of the units of local self-government that I consider a very bad message at the moment when really those municipalities and cities that were being prepared, designed, therefore primarily for EU funds, are now actually reaping these fruits of their work because the numerous competitions are open but now another problem arises. The problem, of course, is the co-financing of these numerous projects that have appeared in the last 2, 3 years, I guess it's so logical how it goes towards the end of this accounting period and we have another side effect which, here, is linked to today and what a lot of MPs have mentioned in their discussions, that's the outflow of labour, that's why the country is primarily EU, and this is causing a very large increase in the price of construction works and actually this increase that the local self-government units had, we can even say that in a lot of them it was eaten by inflation because the growth of those in relation to the cost estimates made in 2016, 2017, and in fact, we had a very long procedure in the application, very long time for the evaluations of all these great competitions has increased 30, 40, somewhere up to 60, 70%. So I, in fact, did what I said in my first reading and warned the Minister here and the Government that it was very important to ensure certain compensatory measures for the budgets of those units of local self-government that would lose funds through this tax reform. So, with income tax, I'm sorry, here, I have to say what, uh, only 2% of those who make the most of it, I think it's one bad message that we send to Croatian citizens. But another thing is that, by certainly increasing this tax base, therefore, to apply a tax rate of 24%, it will not be opened, of course, in an important space for entrepreneurs to increase wages, to keep young people in the country. So, as I said, about 2% of employees have received a payment that is covered by a 36% rate, so this indicates, in fact, the fact that 98% of employees still today are able to raise salaries without increasing the tax burden. Therefore, these proposed amendments and additions will reduce the revenues of local self-government units at an estimated amount of 250 million kuna. So the relatively small number of taxpayers covered by the change, and therefore this reduction will have a significant impact on revenues, primarily those of the strong economic centres that will be the biggest losers of this tax reform. The proposal, of course, is to ensure certain compensatory measures for these local units, which would be increased by the rate of growth of the average net wages during this period and thus would compensate for these funds. The second thing, which is, secondly, the law that has a major impact also on the units of local self-government are amendments to the law on sales of real estate, where we do not agree exactly in the calculation, nor the Association of Cities that did this calculation, the Ministry has one, therefore, I believe, and the Association of Cities that it is a little different. So your estimate is at a level of 100 million kuna. However, if we know that in 2017 884 million kuna of real estate tax was charged at 4%, so if we cut that rate to 3%, that is a 25% reduction, the expected revenue reduction would be 220 million kuna. So this fiscal effect of 100 million kuna at a 3% tax rate would only be achieved with 15% growth in real estate traffic. So there's not exactly this foundation in statistical indicators that we're going to have a growth in taxes, growth, this, real estate sales of 15%. So it's actually one proposal that in the draft, uh, this bill, or through some other legislative proposal, you might have a proposing, uh, I don't know how technical it is right now, but I will certainly propose such an amendment, adding a new provision to make up to the local budget of the state budget for half-year the difference between income from real estate tax, therefore, achieved at a rate of 3% and income that would have been realised to keep the rate at 4%. Here, that would be one suggestion. I think here through these changes, here, if we could just figure out 470 million lost units of local self-government. I say, through the last tax reform there were positive effects, however, this is not one good message because units of local self-government, as I said, due to price increases, due to the numerous projects that are coming, are in one situation, and, behold, I am talking a lot to fellow mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, that they will have to resort and borrowing because they will not simply be able or giving up on projects, which would not, of course, be a good message to citizens that due to lack of funds they are going to give up on projects, and some will have to go into borrowing. Here, consider these suggestions. About the other legal proposals that are here, I just can't agree with a lot of things. I welcome that, here, that there has been some correction as to VAT. However, the tax system unfortunately does not become what it should be, as it says in theory, simpler, more transparent, fairer, we are constantly spinning in circles. The Republic of Croatia has almost annual tax reform. Here's how much there was just an amendment to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, and you have the legal obligation to do financial projections two years in advance. I don't know which way to work them if we know that, probably next year, again here at this time, we're going to discuss certain tax changes that will very likely, unfortunately, go to the end to benefit a very small number of citizens, as of these tax reforms, of this one tax package that is here today before us, also benefits very few citizens. However, I say, there have been some changes, but they are more of a direction to present it well in the media, in the public, and the effects are very, very questionable. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102517	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102518	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague... I could even agree with you in your finding that perhaps some compensatory measures are needed even though I don't think it's going to be that much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But imagine what the measures would then be to go with the proposal to raise a personal deduction to 5.00 kn, which was your club's proposal. It is for that, but it really needs to be prepared. As far as real estate tax is concerned. We have the effect, when we cut from 5 to 4, that didn't follow a percentage reduction. Why? That's what we're expecting here. We expect more real estate traffic to be reported. How is that possible? Well, it's possible by avoiding it now because of the 5% tax, it's been avoided, so they went through various contracts with their son on their father, father on their daughter, and they're spinning in a way that you can't just pay your taxes. That effect won't be that big, and I think the estimates are good, and as far as tax exemptions are concerned, he's been found to be quite discriminatory, which is why we have to encourage this housing care. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102519	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102520	Thank you, so here you mentioned this proposal but you know very well that certain compensatory measures are also envisaged there, which would actually keep the local self-government units at this level in the SDP very well aware of the situation of local self-government units and how much they need it, but I'm going to tell you something else that has been discussed for a long time, which is why we wouldn't leave part of the VAT to local self-government units, why this tax revenue as the highest income of the state budget, why not have part of the local self-government units in it, and what else you said about the property tax, I gave you very much here, a very simple mathematical operation based on what I came up with. So 885 million if we're reducing it by 25% we know how much the reduction is, the ministry has certain other calculations here we can't agree on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102521	Thank you, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102522	Mr. Vesligaj, all the measures the SDP proposes to HDZ could essentially do, or implement, when it was in power, I'm sure that you did everything you suggested to get more votes, unfortunately you acted like drunk millionaires, simply while there was money or picturesquely said while you were in power, you did what you wanted, now that you fell out of power all of a sudden, like a millionaire who had no kuna in his pocket suddenly think about what you should do for the benefit of people and how to help them. My advice to you is to first look at SDP policies before criticising HDZ and to clear these things up because otherwise we will not move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102523	Thank you, reply to the line, here's your colleague, Welligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102524	Here's a thank you, look at a lot of things I wasn't happy with as mayor when the SDP was in power, but it's not exactly like you said, you said that the SDP was then scattered with money as a drunken billionaire. That's not true, look, the macroeconomic situation was very different, you know that the global economic crisis that some of them have said is at all that Croatia won't feel at all, but during that period there was some time after 2009, so then in 2011, there came a SDP government that had to take care of a number of things and prepare maybe some things that serious economists would certainly admit I was preparing that today Croatia could have a certain surplus and use these funds from EU funds, so you definitely don't stand by that finding that you've declared here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102525	Thank you, we continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Ivica Misic, who is not here, thereby losing the right to discuss this item on the agenda. points. Next is counterpart Stephen Curaj, individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102526	I thank the Vice President, Your Honor, when I come to speak, there is no minister again, is there, this respected secretary of state and colleagues with associates or colleagues and colleagues. So, some things I said on behalf of the club, some things I'm going to do again because I think you should be apostrophe, of course, especially those suggestions that haven't seen the light of day in this package. We already know that the minister has said that it is working systematically that every year it comes out with a new part, a new relief, new proposals that would actually make in one term a complete round of tax laws. I would like us here in the assembly to commit ourselves that rules cannot be changed, so let's say, in particular, tax laws in one period to the worse or to the harm or let's say that we increase tax revenues by increasing taxes themselves. Is that what I'm saying because of an investment climate, because of ease and business, I mean, and that would make it an extremely good quote on the scales, a variety of perceptions, where whoever comes today knows that in the next five years they won't have to pay more than what they can possibly do now, only less. When we look back at it for two or three years it's like that and it's nothing else, of course every new government goes with every policy and it's maybe understandable but we can't have instability, we can't trust that we don't know what taxes are on profits, what taxes on income, on work, on capital, and when we take the starting rules of the game to change them during the game. That's what makes an unstable investment climate, and that's why one decision might make this council say that it can't be done except for someone maybe now I don't know, it's not an organic law, but one such large majority that it can change, that it can really be obtained if it's necessary for it to have a consensus of this assembly. Furthermore, when we talk about VAT, we see that a VAT proposal was put here for 2020, and I certainly expect that we will continue to discuss further tax changes and next year in which the light of the day of the proposals that we still have, which I have already put forward as well as the untaxable amount for a warm meal that can be resolved or by the regulation anyway, but certainly that there is a need or a way to find a way to from the very next year, so not the next one, but when we talk about new tax laws that enter into force 1.1.2020 so that it can be found and found on the agenda if not earlier. Also, the question I said earlier on behalf of the club is the question of compensation for the use of a private vehicle for official purposes, I think it is clear to everyone that the existing amount is far out of date as to the standards and as regards the costs of the vehicle itself, so it is absolutely a dog we can only say whether it should be 2, to 2.5 or to 3 kuna, which does not mean that it has to be so much, someone can pay the kuna and the kuna and a half, everything depends on the decision of that body. We don't have to talk, I mean, everyone knows why and how. What I certainly said was that no tax change, so not this one, and this one, too, does not go, does not do anything to the burden of our citizens, and would even say what caused perhaps at the beginning of what the minister himself said the most dispute over the pay base to directors, if we can call them so Colloquial, therefore, who employed their companies, entrepreneurs, who were reported for 1 hour, 2 hours, and, accordingly, paid certain contributions, and in fact, perhaps in some way, misused that, that possibility and avoided, and used all the benefits of health insurance, and nowhere paid the same, stated on some other basis. But what is certain is that it has been crystallized there and I think that, of course, because of these, and we responded immediately, so that individuals need not punish everything, but they need to put in order and those who abuse, they need a statue at the end, because we are, that we will always find that shortcut, where we can, that we will always find a hole in the law and that anyone who can find a way of self, to reduce or pay less, or something less cost it. However, there has been another situation, especially when we talk about women entrepreneurs, so that perhaps we could think through a kind of regulation to find one, one, one transition, or let's say some relief to tie that obligation to income. So this is a direct proposal for someone who starts with the company, especially if we're talking about, and we know how much measure we have for women entrepreneurs and how much we want them on the labour market, and especially if we're looking at the context of demographic renewal, where they might really and really want a job that they can do on their own half-time, a couple of hours, so that just in terms of demographic renewal they can either be with children or have the opportunity to give birth to children, and financially, and so on and business, through work, that this ratio is linked to their income. What does that mean specifically? Yes, if we have what we have to look at in a year that if you cross 300,000 kunas, you get into the VAT system right away, so we can look here if you have a minimum number of working hours that you're registered to according to your incomes. That means, if someone wants to work for just 1 hour, and that's why they make 1000 kunas a month's income for that 1 hour, okay, then they pay their salary and salary contributions in 1 hour, but if someone logs in 1 hour and makes 100,000 kunas a month, then that's what we're talking about why we did it. That's not right. And that's where it's supposed to end. And I mean the purpose of this and the meaning of this law and the meaning of which the legislator goes. But those who have some monthly income are really modest, who actually correspond to the number of hours, because of course the more you do, the more income you are expected to have, sometimes it's not true, sometimes it's only been charged in half a year, a year, two years, especially if we're talking about beginners. Maybe if we could get through a rulebook here, this one correlation to tie them to incomes, to actually bring that part into some balance, to admit someone okay, if you just want to work two hours, and you don't have income at some point, you're entitled to it. As far as we've got it, we can see that there's a lawyer who said that making a full-time payment of full-time contributions for half-time certainly doesn't contribute to creating a stimulating environment for entrepreneurs who see part-time work as the only way to stay on the labour market for a certain period, so in general, or to realize family expansion plans, so from that point of view, you'd like to think about it a little bit and see if it can be found a solution to such things. What we should certainly welcome is the absolute proposals that are included, the proposals that we agreed on, and agreed, certainly reducing VAT to 13% of the food rate, certainly increasing the threshold for entry into the second tax class of 36% regardless of what some want to portrait as their kind of care for the poor, see these rich will be even richer, unfortunately today it is for us who have high wages and are going to go for even higher wages. There may not be many, but such experts are the ones we need here and such experts are those who work extra value and who potentially create other jobs with their work, consequently on the labour market and in general on the market. So when we talk, especially about IT industry, in particular, we also mentioned doctors, specialists of various kinds who certainly enter that class, but IT industry is certainly something that is the future of this country, especially my neighborhood where I come from, di developing, I will not say 'cause of politics but despite politics, and there is something that they will recognize this and in some way the state will do that role that needs to be played, which is that it certainly gives a framework. As far as 13 wages are concerned, I absolutely welcome, uh, an increase in the non-taxable income in which it could actually be drawn a line there and allowed in one indirect way the 13th salary that we have proposed, so that, all in all, really and what we have heard today, a lot, a lot of good things, a little bit, and what I have already said several times, by no law, any package of these tax laws, we are not going to solve the problem that is bothering us today, and this is above all the lower income and departure of our people and the economy that is not developing quickly enough. But each of them is a pebble, a wheel in the whole process, a process, and that's why each of them has a role to play and that's why we can't underestimate it. And surely this kind of effort should be at 50, 100, and then we'll be able to say that we're all going somewhere and that this country has a better perspective, because it's not the problem that we're growing up, the problem is that maybe others are growing faster, and we have to try to outreach them, not keep up with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102527	Two replicas to your exposure. She is the first colleague of Ninčević Ivana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102528	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Curaj, I agree, this is for women entrepreneurs about how in his presentation, now after you talk, but I would like to stress that it is not only a matter of women entrepreneurs, but it is also a matter of beginner entrepreneurs, which I also emphasized in my first reading simply for beginners because of the kind of activity they are dealing with is not able to provide income in the first year of business so that they can cover their contributions by full-time, other business costs, other taxes and their salary. So it's not just a female entrepreneur, but all the other beginners who simply in that first year of business are unable to ensure it. This is proof to you that all the laws that have been passed by other countries than Ireland, Lithuania, Estonia, New Zealand, Australia, Austria, France, I no longer know which state has no such law at all. It is precisely entrepreneurs beginners who are defined by law and for whom there is a special package of laws in their first three years of business and special emphasis is on the first one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102529	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102530	Maybe that's where we should start from the other direction. So now I don't know exactly what the definition of beginners is, is that the person who must be the owner of the company that he wasn't before. Yes, but there are people who are, have some responsible positions in certain companies and use the creation of different companies as a complement to their activities and opportunities to take advantage of all these benefits and actually. ... Yes, they are the founders for the first time because someone else owns the company because they are directors in other companies and then they start a company and use all the benefits of it and actually far from the beginners and far from what the legislator has intensities. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I think what you're saying is really important because you need to help but you need to find a model to separate the grain from the doll. Because that's what the problem is then others use on those who aren't originally meant to, these measures, use all that fat and play legal, intensity and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102531	Thank you. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102532	Thank you very much, counsel Curaj, so you say you need to raise the salaries of the rich, crazy with high incomes because you're rich as they leave Croatia. And then, among other things, you mention doctors. So here you are, for information over the past 5 years, left Croatia 600 doctors and 300 thousand citizens. So in that mass, doctors represent 0.2% of the population, and I don't think that's a good reason to say that they're the only ones who need to raise their salaries. On the other hand, I have to tell you, and you probably know that doctors don't leave the country because of low wages, but leave because of the political staffing of Mr Kujundzic and because of a general chaos that rules in health, the inability to advance, and that's why they're leaving. Therefore, calling on doctors simply does not seem fair to me to all those who have gone and have lost a raise in this tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102533	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102534	Thank you. I don't know whether to trust you or not, but always throw me into that dilemma. You mentioned there that Georgia doesn't have one road, I've looked at a 1,600km highway and another 18,000 miles of paved other roads of state. So I don't know now whether I trust you with that information or not when you make something up and when you say something real, but yes, of course you should look at the bigger picture. Here, that's what I just said, don't hold onto that one pebble. We need hundreds of them, for all of them. Unfortunately for those who have one child and 5.5 thousand kuna, you can't pay more because no more taxes... They can reduce VAT to the basic costs they have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That was our intensity when we were still sitting down with the minister and the first time we talked about it is there then there's something you can help them with, you can't do it here anymore. And these are the most sensitive who have 3,000 kunas to pay. How are you gonna give it to them if they don't pay for anything already? By reducing the cost of their lives. And that's actually the intensity we're going to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102535	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, the next is counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102536	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what I want to say about these nine tax laws, as part of the third part of the comprehensive tax reform that started with 2016, continued in 2017 and now in 2018. So one normal sequence of responsible authorities projecting clearly changes the legislative framework over the year to start applying and achieve certain results completely different from what we had in one government before the tax laws were changed 49 times in the middle of the year in all sorts of ways trying to react to events that were mostly negative. And today we heard that it was a rationally smart government that was very capable, but simply the citizens replaced it because they probably didn't understand the technology of governance of such a government with the state. And then we come to today's debate and we're listening again to the evaluation of these nine tax laws. And it seemed to me more like some expression of dissatisfaction with the answers that were very reasoned by the promoters, and I simply couldn't understand that most of the clubs in the opposition are against what proposals 9 of the laws we are discussing today are all about. So I can't understand that someone is against reducing VAT to fresh meat, diapers, fresh vegetables and fruit, eggs, etc. which has a positive impact on the total income of households of some 870 million kuna projected. I can't understand that. And then I remember some times when many of these clubs, say the HSS, were just trying to reduce the VAT rate on these products, sign petitions, wear government signatures, etc., etc. They come in today, nothing, we're against it because I don't know the kitchen or anything, I don't know what I missed. So they're against reducing the total contribution to employers by 1%. They're against it. And they found a few reasons why they should be against it and let's remember what they were doing to those very employers. Against the expansion of the annual tax base received rates of 24% from 210 thousand to 300 thousand kuna. It explains why only some would increase wages when we can't increase all employees' salaries. Well, if we can't do it to everyone, nobody's best. I don't understand the arguments that should go that way. We are against the fact that local self-government determines the height of the sheets on the bed, I am here to come from local self-government and why it is best for local self-government to determine, because it is best to know its own terrain, to know its areas of tourism, to some who are close to the sea, some who may be a little further, perhaps different prices, perhaps leave the same, might increase if they think they need income to cover certain projects, etc. Why would that depend on the government? And everyone's always talking about decentralisation and money and power, and here's your authority, and now we're against it. There are, of course, some things that bother us, but there is a time before us when such doubts can be solved in the time ahead of us, we still have, I think, almost two, another little less than two years of mandate. They are therefore against allowing commercial transport operators to return excise duty if they use diesel. I read somewhere on the portal 300 million kuna effect and they say we're against those who deal with transportation, especially public transport, and even in rural areas, they say we're against it. So what are you gentlemen for? You haven't been able to answer the whole thing, but you don't have anyone to talk to, they're all gone. So they're against reducing VAT for prices, now I'm here, so they're against reducing VAT means a general rate from 1.1.2020 from 25 to 24. Let's remember their first move, the first move of that government was right from 23 to 25, it was an effective measure to solve the problem of public finances and why you should expect something else today, so maybe you shouldn't, but I expected us to understand what this government is doing to what this ministry is offering. We are opposed to saying in the opposition to lower the sales tax on real estate from 4% to 3%, first from 5 to 4, now to 4 to 3. Here I might as a local leader say maybe this isn't going too good for us, but why doesn't it go to the citizens, it goes to the citizens, so why are we against it, we don't know we're just against it. We are opposed to an even more advanced fiscalization system, and everyone is constantly calling some people who do something are not allowed to do anything, etc. But when we offer a cheaper and more efficient administration, the tax administration even better fiscalization we are against it from the opposition I hear. So when I look at all three circles and what has been promised a long time ago, it's not long ago 2 years ago in 2016 that it's going to start with a tax reform that in the first part is going to be a disbursement of 2.3 billion and last year 1.3 billion means for this year and now an estimate of 2.7 billion in the next year means 6, third year means 6.3 in general we don't say, in opposition, we're against it. Well, what you want citizens to be burdened by the fact that the businessmen are being burdened, I don't understand that policy, but just here we've been listening all day. What were the explanations, why 5% I don't know about, why everything on 5% not or 0 don't, why would people even pay something, why didn't you give these to them, so when you add these 7,500 untaxable parts to all of this, I hear some entrepreneurs that 12 times at pay I don't know 500 kuna, and it's already being thought that this entrepreneur is irresponsible and that he's going to abuse it. It's a perception I'm going to tell those former governments there, they're thinking so, so everybody's willing to do something bad, so why think about employers in such a bad way, so maybe there's one among them that's going to do something, but it's not 100% of all. Will the prices drop after this VAT drops from 25 to 13, which is expected by the government to arbitration with the decree that there must be a kilo of meat I don't know instead of 40, 36 so I guess the market is working something out. I think that talking in this way for me was really this little bit and irresponsible today, but here we listened, what I am pleased is that the objectives set by the government in part of the tax reform from the beginning and the first and the second and third rounds are clear and that they are seen, means to reduce the total tax burden means to relieve as many citizens and employers as possible, one stable and simple tax system that is socially fair, which gives legal certainty to all taxpayers and a simple cheaper tax administration. I think that these nine laws, as they were in previous years, clearly offer the answer that these objectives are feasible, it also shows that the implementation of the budget in every year that we've been through, will probably be so in both this and the next and I can simply say that indeed here the Ministry of Finance has shown again that it can be responsible, clear, precise, reasoned public finances, and for all of these others I don't know what to say except that probably this packaging that they sell with some kind of contempt for content if we listen well today simply won't reach people in the way they want it. That the content doesn't matter if we lie, invent, manipulate, and that's what we need to lead us to make decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102537	On your show, we have three replicas, first colleague Branko Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I agree with your presentation, this is the third phase of Mr. Minister's reform we want and by the year we have a fourth phase of tax reform, I don't know, but I strongly recommend, if we are in the fourth phase of tax reform to think about then also the possibility of changing the income tax in the part where it is paid towards the place of the taxpayer's residence so that we can give the units of local self-government that we have allowed these legal changes to define the basis for the calculation of income tax on rent in tourism so that then for the next stage of tax change in tax reform to reflect, think about the possibility that this income from income tax on income will be the income of the local community on which they rent these same beds and provide accommodation services, I think it would be good, in this way we would respond to these requirements that we heard in the HDZ's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102539	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102540	Thank you very much. Here's what I've been doing, and I've advocated, that we might be doing it right now, but I've heard the explanations why not now and why not now and why we have to change some other laws, not just tax laws to get there and I'm saying, believing in these people who really are responsible for doing their job and they've shown that they can project, means that we don't create some kind of bad situation in public finances, so it's probably just what happened to us next year, so here we are, hopefully not just going to be able to talk about any surprises that come out in the budget, and I think it's possible that what you said means in this fourth round, probably next year, before 2020, so here, I hope that we'll not just get involved in that kind of injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102541	Replica number two, colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102542	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boris, you are saying that someone is against the introduction of a VAT rate, no one is against it, but we simply argue that there is no control of the mechanism that these VAT rates will really come to those most needed and these are Croatian families. If the government has extra money, we have proposed what the entire Croatian public actually proposes, whether employers, whether trade unions, media or experts, is to raise the lowest and below average wage. Unfortunately, we see that these very salaries that I have just mentioned will not increase but will increase the highest wages and that is what the average citizen not only confuses in this so-called. tax reform than it hurts. That's what doesn't give the citizen confidence in the better tomorrow and consequently makes him think about going abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102543	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102544	My colleague Bunjac, they don't confuse the citizens of the law, but such advocates who manipulate it, so they sell what I said, packaging with contempt of content. So you're reading it your way and you're asking that one who doesn't pay any taxes, that his salary rises by changing the IRS. That's your story, and it's probably coming up among your voters, and you're probably doing it as skillfully as you've done recently and your own resignation as well as I've seen it. If you're able to alienate something, I guess you're back, here's hoping you're back. So that's what you're selling. But don't talk to people that way because surely every citizen didn't read the law and doesn't know exactly what it's about but listening to such advocates who manipulate the truth or the fact and the argument, bringing it down to their own experience, can happen that many are mistaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102545	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102546	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. And just a few notes at the end of this whole day's debate. I want to draw attention to what the minister is not there but there is as much as we have been following, he has had one conflict with the Minister of Health and I think it should persist in this and insist that the health system becomes fiscally sustainable and that here 2 billion kunas that health care will have more next year, are not spent in vain in another of the many recoverys that have occurred in recent years, precisely because our health system is fiscally unsustainable and that the health minister and his associates do nothing to make the costs in the health system under control. I'm not saying that it's rationalized at the expense of healthcare professionals and patients but that order should also be introduced in a way that pays in the health care system, I think the finance minister agrees. I can repeat that this moment the total debt in health is 8.3 billion kuna, it has reached 3.4 billion kuna, by the end of the year there will be a billion more and 100 million kuna, and let's remember, last year, a billion and 300 million dollars have been spent with the recovery and we see that another recovery has been prepared in the rebalancing process. Therefore, our health system is quite ill and it is not good to spend money in such a way that it does not become anything healthier, so we ask the Minister of Finance to be persistent and insist that the Minister of Health does his job better than he has done so far. The second part of my debate goes accordingly, so recently the World Health Organization has published one data that is catastrophic, so our 15-year-olds drink at most a week from all 35 EU countries in the survey. I will repeat, so 15-year-olds in Croatia drink the most alcohol a week, among 35 EU countries. How do you stop it? Of course, by health care, by preventing but above all, I believe that a huge role can be played by sport and our finance minister is a athlete and therefore, in this part of the debate, I express once again the appeal that, together with the Central State Sport Office, it is seen whether there is anything to be done to create assumptions that a number of young people can deal with sports because at this point because of the difficult situation, many young, many young children are not engaged in sports, simply do not have money for membership parents, have no money for equipment, so it would be good to see how to enable and encourage investment in sport, how to increase the amount of tax-recognition costs for companies that want to invest in sport, how to increase tax reliefs related to sport and thus relieve clubs of the costs that these judges, delegates, coaches, all of their modest funds, where they end up very little to work with young people. Of course, this could help, but the expertise of all those who work with young people, respected sports workers who have their jobs but who work part-time at clubs, means through different relationships, through the Law on Tax on Contributions, could enable clubs to still have less of that cost and finally have children in sports clubs without membership to live healthy, live longer and better quality, and ensure that we have a healthier society in Croatia than we have today. Here's a long debate, I think this is enough messages that I wanted to send to the minister connecting health care along with sports and, of course, budgets and all taxes that fill the budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102547	Thank you, we have one replica for your presentation, that's colleague Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102548	Thank you very much, this last replica of my colleague Jovanovic I left behind for you because I knew you would talk about this, and you weren't when I was talking about my individual debate because I think I'm a colleague of Sagar, I'm sorry that many in this hall who don't understand sports don't get the essence and the problems of sport, and that sport isn't what's at the top, but sport is down at the base, and that's exactly the problem we need to solve, as well as paying for official persons, as well as financing and all of us in 2005 started with one project, but unfortunately it's someone interrupted, honestly telling me today my heart hurts when I see that one basketball player, let's say Cedevita or anyone who came from America has to get a residence permit, so we have to get a twist so that we can deal with sports, that's something simple and if we bring order from the base, then we'll go to the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102549	I would like to thank my colleague Schuker, my colleague Jovanovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102550	Here's my colleague Shuker, I agree with what you said, and there are areas where we can really do something together without having to know who comes from which party and I think that sport is safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102551	I thank you for your response, dear colleague Jovanovic. Next debate, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102552	I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers with an associate, in my previous first reading presentation, I focused on the Law on Contributions, and this is exactly what I will do in this presentation, in this presentation I will focus most on this law for the very reason why I believe that the Law on Contributions would actually say the most harmful law of this package of tax laws. The minister knows very well that I’m in the first reading exposure to focus on the experience of beginners and micro entrepreneurs so I decided in the second reading actually in this exhibition to focus on what I didn’t say then, and these are women entrepreneurs and beginners. I will repeat because I saw that you were in the story so you didn't hear, I believe that the Law on Contributions is the most harmful law of this whole package of tax laws, but that we are immediately on the clear in these proposals of the law there are a lot of things for entrepreneurs and I am aware that you and all entrepreneurs are and that they know all the laws that are good and we simply have nothing to discuss, they are good and thank God that they should have been here long ago, so there are very good things for entrepreneurs here. But today we need to discuss what is not good, and this is the Law on Contributions I was already talking about in my first reading, I say, about beginners who in the first stage of business in the first year, so the most vulnerable phase of business is not able to secure themselves contributions to apply for full time, so I was talking about entrepreneurs, micro entrepreneurs and beginners. This time I want to focus on women entrepreneurs. I know it's late, that we've been here all day, that you've been sitting there all day, but I'm asking you to focus because you'd read it, because I know you're here all day like I do, and I want you to read all these messages and e-mails of women entrepreneurs that are also publicly published because they've been denied to write it in your comments, because you've made this change after e-consultation, so you've also denied yourself to read all of their comments, and so I'm asking you for a concentration to read all of their messages and emails that it has quite. Entrepreneurs often work from home so they can balance work and family, which actually only leads to our bourn-out we don't have 8 hours of effective work a day, because we have to welcome them from school, give them lunch, help them with their homework, and therefore companies in women's property remain micro-enterprises and very slow growth. I'm writing to you as a mother entrepreneur with three girls right now from the kitchen table because I have to cook them lunch. Many women who start a job apply for part-time, because they actually work so effectively and don't have time to deal with it, they don't have time to deal with business development, they're trying to earn enough to pay off all obligations to the state, which is actually just self-preservation on the surface from month to month. Women entrepreneurs who are the only employees in their company or crafts or have up to 2 or 3 employees 70% of women's companies are up to 4 employees, therefore no large directors who sit in offices while workers work, so they should be punished, because we are employed in part-time are very well seen on our incomes. The one who makes millions and is reported half-time is a different story. I'm talking about women who could sit on the market or could apply to be mothers in Zagreb and have been paid for it, decided instead to create something, give birth and raise children and create jobs. Did you know that entrepreneurs have 2,3.4 children? Last week we held a conference of mom entrepreneurs where we presented ourselves, where we presented ourselves to moms entrepreneurs that we have 2, 3 or 5 children. The conference included women who are on maternity leave and would like to start their own business, they will report safely for half their working hours, since they have no finances or time to be registered for full-time. You know how entrepreneurs go on maternity leave, no way. Entrepreneurs hide their pregnancy until the last day they go masked at meetings so they don't lose their jobs because their corporate clients think they won't be for a year now, which, of course, isn't true. If an entrepreneur goes to a maternity company of 2 or 3 employees no longer exist, the same happens to entrepreneurs who have developed businesses and a lot of employees, their babies have their own rooms in their offices. We go to the maternity home and go out as soon as possible to keep working, because the IRS doesn't ask us how you are, how you are a child, but it sends a warning before pay orders, VAT, etc. And now we're the abusers who'll get a payoff on their personal behalf at the end of the year, where we can pay for it, where we can make money for it. No one lives as women entrepreneurs, our appeal to the government is that this law does not apply to beginners for the first three years, and to women entrepreneurs for 5 years. Entrepreneurs work until the last day of pregnancy and continue to work literally from the maternity ward, and from the maternity ward and escape to issue invoices, so that we can be paid to pay for the state that needs it. Because if you're the only employee or if there's two or three of you, you're the head worker, not the CEO, and if you're not here, there's no company. After we get out of the birthplace of the corner. We're working from home. My first office was on the table in the living room, then in the corner of the bedroom in the hope that I would finally have peace, I moved into a separate room, but they all came after me. So we're not talking about any eight hours of effective work again. It took me six years to get out of the home office in the real office, because I can finally be alone at home when they get home from school. This whole time I was working part-time, and I don't remember one day having eight hours of effective work. The Ministry of Finance that entrepreneurs, who are employed less than full-time abuses and from 1.1 they will have to pay the difference in contributions, up to full-time personal. Since 1.1.2019, it's over with women's entrepreneurship. See how other entrepreneurs live who want to create something in this country and have children at the same time. If this Contribution Act is passed, entrepreneurs will definitely not be able to bear the burden. The day most often looks like we get up about 8 changing breakfasts, she goes to bed afterwards and usually lasts about 2 hours, during which time I manage to work. After that, we go for a walk, and then I put her to sleep, and in the meantime, I'm working again, plus I'm cooking lunch. After getting up, there goes lunch and then most often... So I could do some more sensitive jobs that I couldn't do with her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rest of the afternoon I'm mostly committed to her and with work I start again at night, after she goes to sleep. I note how I do phone calls alone while the child sleeps, because I'm afraid if the person on the other hand hears the baby scream and the beyby TV I sound unserious. I've been reported full-time in my crafts, but I have to point out that I rarely manage to be productive and to set out full eight hours for work at all. Balance business-child, I don't know what to say. I was working while she was sleeping, about two to half an hour, up to an hour a day. Don't ask me what I had to do for that time, because I don't know myself either, but the company had to move on, the business couldn't stop and it had to come up from somewhere and the bills had to be paid. The husband then worked as a cameraman from nine till evening he was out in the field, we're cornered. They were alone because I don't have my grandmother's service in my hand. When she left for the mangers, all known health problems started, so she rarely went home for 10-15 days every other month. It was actually the hardest thing to do at the time was to get the job and the mother's obligations in line, because I was with the child again the whole time. We had a very difficult adjustment, so there was only three hours left in the nursery, and when I left her, I rushed home for the laptop, which I had previously set up for a holiday table, so I wouldn't waste any time later. There was no marenda or coffee, but to get there more at three o'clock, because that's all the hours I have available. So I'm not talking about full-time again. I'm talking about three hours. In the fall of this year, she went to kindergarten. A new adjustment to the new environment, and we've already been on sick leave for 20 days. When do I work? I get up on my fingers at 6:30 barely looking, because we're cornered. During the night, they were sleepwalking and praying to God that no one would wake up to do what I could do. But I can't call my clients before 9:00, and they'll send me to that thing if they call me at all, and at 9:00, my pretty girl gets up, if not sooner. What I can do through an e-mail, which I can't steal for a minute, I've had to disappear from her sight, and the call can't last more than five minutes, because it becomes a mixture of business conversation and mom parts. Fortunately I have clients full of understanding, not organization and balance problem of women, women are wizards as far as it goes, but we still can't spell out as much money as the state needs. Tena crawl, she starts to get on her feet, so I'm running after her so she doesn't fall, by the way I'm calling the buyer suppliers. After the conference, Mom's entrepreneurs got rid of the shame of calling people, even if I wanted to have a baby in spite of hearing it. I'm sending e-mails as far as I can, and I'm in my office by evening without talking, and I barely have anywhere to put my feet under the toy desk. Lifting at 5:00, coffee and working out a plan for that day. Since the 7th prominence of older children in school, returning home, while the little ones sleep, making phone calls, so they don't hear the screaming of the youngest baby in the background and... I collect kids, cook lunch, do homework and control, and there's a lot more here that I'm not reading to you right now, because we're not gonna make it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am interested in your comment on where all women have actually proven to you their experiences and their daily story and obligations that they simply are not able to apply for full-time, and therefore, accordingly, they have so much money and for their contributions. I am interested in your comment on whether you will find some way to meet them both and beginners and all those who in their first year of business simply can't make that kind of money to pay all the taxes and contributions and apply for full-time work. And before I time out, I have one more question, which these days the profession would be said to break, which I think is 187 F article of the law, which is winding down, or, that the entrepreneur, let's say, a beginner, who in the year of his business, realized that he couldn't have enough income to pay off all of what was required of him by this law. And he decides to move into the liquidation process. his company is true that in this process of liquidation he will still have to pay 1900 kn full-time contributions exactly the amount that he actually decided to go into liquidation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102553	I thank my colleagues, Ninčević. We continue the debate, dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102554	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow respected ministers. As much music as we can control the discharge, i.e. the expenditure side of the state budget, as much as you have maneuvers to make tax reform. As for the expenditure side of the state budget, we had a debate yesterday in the housing law in the assisted area, where we were said to be given 100 million kn for housing in the assisted area, that there was no more money. And when we look at it today, you buy cars again for 37 million kn, not to mention that summer adventure, where you also predicted 220 million kn. So right now, expenditures don't hold back, so we can't even consider this reform a real reform, and the expenditures that we're not talking about public administration, where we have an accumulation of staff, an increase of employees, we have over 2,000 new employees, means in the public sector in the last 2 years, and we have a paradox that the number of people in the country is shrinking. And now if the public sector should serve all Croatian citizens, if the number of citizens is reduced in the process of emigration, it cannot be justified. Regardless of my support for any tax discharge, I specifically gave two amendments to the VAT Act so I support items that are reduced to 13% of your proposal. I personally don't know why it hasn't been inserted and the item of the meat products if we have fresh meat, fish, eggs, molluscs, crabs, clams. Dry meat products are purely for another reason, when we know that the designation of origin of geographical origin has also a Baranian Slavonian tower, Dalmatian Drač, Istrian and karst prosciutto. If we were to go to dry meat products, and these listed products are not half of what the Republic of Croatia has with geographical origin, it would encourage our domestic production, and therefore these products would be easier or much more competitive to come to the tables of all our citizens. The second proposal is related to the supply of water currently having a rate of 13% of VAT to go to 5%, purely for one justifiable reason, if we see water prices in the demographic most relaxed area of the Republic, they are the largest, solely because public suppliers simply can't have the liquidity of their company because the number of people is decreasing, the number of users is shrinking. Although we have milk and bread at 5%, why can't we have water at 5%, and that would actually cause a decrease, cumulatively reducing water prices. As far as profit tax law is concerned, I will take this opportunity just to say that it can be very much in the service of economic development or the launch of economic development and the assisted and mountainous mountainous area. We have had such measures before, in these last amendments, or drafts of the Law on aided and mountainous mountainous areas, some symbolic measures of 100 million kuna for aided ones, 85 million kuna for assisted areas, 35 million kuna for mountainous mountainous areas, that is to say, to develop an economy, I believe it is only this profit tax law where it would be left to local self-government units in an assisted and mountainous mountainous area, but it should not be left to, I don't know, red tape, the accumulation of appliances, but can be purposely defined for construction programmes in such a way that units of local self-government from then obtained funds from fiscal balancing or from their own income tax, can develop economic programmes and attract entrepreneurs in such a way. So one option could be concluded if it were given as such in a particular section of local self-government units and a supported and mountainous mountainous area. As far as real estate tax is concerned, I don't understand if we had taxpayers where you gave local self-government units the ability to define these censorships, give real estate tax simply, representative bodies don't bring in a certain censorship. I also don't understand that real estate tax has a unique rate. So, okay, I support a reduction from 4 to 3%, but that 3% pays the investor who buys, I don't know, 10 million kuna real estate, pays the one who has 100, the same means the rate. It should simply, for certain reasons, be significantly different from defining certain censuses, i.e. to units of local self-government through representative bodies, that they regulate how much tax they will have in their field according to their development strategies. Is when we look, this, who develops infrastructure to all these properties, develops a unit of local self-government. I won't be too long, honestly, as I said at the beginning, how much money, how much music, how much state spending is restrained, and we see that you're not, as much, allowed by certain, uh, tax-delivery regulations. I personally believe that there should be an absolute shift, mainly in the expenditure side, from public administration reform and all other reforms, as well as expenditures that are currently simply unwarranted, we also see the proposal in the 2019 budget so that we can speak more specifically about the tax discharge of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102555	Thank you, colleague Pranic. We have a replica. Dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102556	Dear colleague, I must correct you if we can't say that government expenditures aren't contained when we're leaving the excessive deficit system this year when we have a surplus in the first half of the year for 1.6 billion kuna and last year 3 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102557	Thank you, colleague Pranic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102558	As far as expenditure is concerned, we can talk about restraint, non-restraint, so that's not the policy course of one year, so that's the direction of one long-term policy. But when we look at what awaits us in the future, so when you look at the economy of Germany, so when you look at the economies of the Western countries, when we see it stagnating, we see that for the next five, six years there may be a crisis, we should now be talking about significantly more of our control over the spending side, mainly in the draft budget for 2019, and we see that this is not happening. As the staff expenditure goes, no one here can justify the reduction of the number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the public administration and the entire public apparatus should be at the service of all these citizens. If citizens shrink, it should be reduced, rather than accumulatively increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102559	I thank my colleague Pranic. Final word on behalf of the Bridge of Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102560	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I actually took the final because I have very little time left for the rest of the debate because too many of these e-mails and messages of women entrepreneurs, so I haven't really been able to say that we have the attorney's opinion because all women are involved in the network of women in Adria, they've actually asked for the attorney's opinion on the subject of this very Law on Contribution, so I'm just going to say for a little while that even though the Ombudsman doesn't have the exact statistics on the share of entrepreneurs in the total number of part-time applicants, which we don't have any further, and I'm asking you a representative question, and I'm still waiting for the answer for the number, so the self-employed directors who applied half-time. To assume that it is a significant number, that a significant number works that way just to reconcile its private and professional obligations. This is why legal measures aimed at preventing the abuse of work in part-time must not be broken into entrepreneurs, but also at entrepreneurs who work part-time to take care of children. The obligation to pay full-time contributions in part-time certainly does not contribute to the creation of such a potential environment for entrepreneurs who, in part, see it as the only way to stay on the labour market for a certain period of time but to realise plans to expand their family. As a priority of population policy, it is constantly stressed that citizens in the Republic of Croatia remain and that negative demographic movements are stopped and the aim is to achieve a demographic policy based on greater employment of women, the dissemination of services and support of families, and the creation of a family-friendly environment and children. To this end, the Ombudsman sent the Croatian Parliament a report on the work for 2017 and recommended that women need economic empowerment with the implementation of measures to bring business and family obligations into line. Following all of the above, the Ombudsman recommends that reduced contributions which may be defined in accordance with the level of income from companies be paid for a member of the management or executive director or cooperative manager at half-time, i.e. part-time, or part-time. Minister, I expect you to comment, so all these comments and e-mails from women entrepreneurs. And I ask you because I no longer have a way, arguments don't go, reading messages and emails don't go, I can only ask you yet, so I ask you on behalf of all beginners to consider them, to consider what to do with them. If you're not going to do it in this law, if you won't accept the amendments that go in favor of the beginners to do it with a rule. If this is also a problem I can give you a number of analyses that I have of all the laws from the Irish Start up Reliefdo Estonian, Lithuania, Austria, France, New Zealand, and even Macedonia and Albania introduce law to attract beginners and start up scenes and we actually make these contributions to them to go outside. So I know through this year and in this very meantime that a lot of young IT's just opened up a company outside. So they're physically here but they've opened a company in Estonia especially since we've had this one, you've heard of probably... So please make it legal if not through amendments or through some change of your own to then regulate the business of beginners who simply cannot apply for full-time work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102561	I thank my dear colleague, Ninčević Lesandric. Final word on behalf of the promoter, respected Finance Minister Mr. Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102562	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, at the end of the debate, I will not say some kind of impression but really really when I turn off that part of the debate that was strictly led, I would say, first of all, to the political motives and the good part and the ad hoc debate when we take this other part and yet it was predominant, I think that we had one quality debate from all sides of the assembly and from many clubs and from individual MPs, I think we heard good comments but I can't in any way take the impression that a good part of what we were talking about is mostly just being recognized in all these changes of tax laws, announced by changes in sublegal acts, only that everyone would still want a little more. And that is what is, of course, always a challenge in this whole business and in the management of public finances and responsible behaviour towards state finances that, in accordance with the possibilities, always seek the maximum or if someone wants to say even the optimum, although of course it is difficult and to define and achieve it. But I think that through the debate, all these intentions and measures have been recognized, and I think that, by replicating each other, you have also in some way explained to the citizens and to all of us together that it is not always so expensive or simple and tax system, what I like to highlight and when we visited both Croatia and Zagreb during public consultation and interpreted different, I would call in a positive sense of interest groups whether we are talking about social partners, trade unions, employers' association, economic chamber or any other, we have always pointed out the same thing. And that's where we're lucky, where we're lucky we're wrong when we find out that we can't solve all our problems, either economically or socially, by tax system. I repeat once again, where luck is that this finding is not true then it would still be simpler for all of us because then in the tax system we would have to and only there to look for solutions and then we could ignore everything else. But I think that through the different segments that we've touched whether we're talking about health care, sports, whether we're talking about demographics, whether we're talking about entrepreneurship, small, medium, large, whether we're talking about whatever segment we're talking about, local self-government, and in some way we're always coming up with similar conclusions. I have no intention of whether, as you said yourself, it's been a long time since this debate, but it's good, you who are here and still, and everyone who listens I think they can draw some good conclusions from today's debate, there are a lot of amendments. As far as we've seen, in the benches, there's something nomotechnic, there's something of course and essential. I repeat once again as I have at every meeting we've been to and at which we presented something, it's always of course that we can do more. And today here are local leaders, and some of you are also still local leaders today, or were in your professional career, and you know well that the amendments to the law on the financing of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, were actually one truly positive surprise and in some way a very clear signal from the government and how it determines and refers to local self-government left full income from income tax. There was a technicality just before, so he says it's not true. Yes, that is true, because, of course, the balancing fund ends again on units of local and regional or regional self-government but introduces that element of justice to the equal, or as much as possible of these fiscal capacities, we sort of balance them from cities, municipalities of counties, and among them depending on economic development. A similar question is also some other segments, you see, that in income tax I think many are very aware that even a lot of the measures that have been heard and debated and in public consultation would not be able to target and tang a number of our citizens in view of the level of their incomes. I think that even today, a good part of the debate has also been focused on this part that we have proposed to raise this untaxable part in the sublegal act. I am also in the introductory part and some of you and in the debates, so I can say in this final part of it, of course, that we are aware of certain possibilities of acting, and that is good, I would say good intentions and good measures, but we in the regulation, we have already received several good, overly overly comments in public consultation, to try all this expensive awareness to a minimum possible measure, i.e., indeed to enable what was actually the right intensity, which is that entrepreneurs, because, among other things, have cried out for similar measures, can then, of course, reward their employees and, by the end of this year, and primarily count on that for the next Mr. As regards the contribution, I think that today, in not a small number of debates, there was, of course, the affected question not only the income sides, but also what you contribute to, so this health system. Of course, we would like to, that we can only remain on the scale to which we have said, abolishing the two contributions to work injuries and employees, or the unemployed. The fee for the unemployed, but we cannot in any case turn our backs to the health sector and the system at this time and certainly do everything in our ability to make one contribution on the revenue side but, of course, we also need to make some additional measures on the expenditure side. As far as VAT is concerned, of course, it's always the same to you, whenever we go down, then the question always arises, why don't we expand that circle, I have to admit, that from the beginning, when we go into that measure and think about it, I have to admit, that I'm personally quite satisfied, that we've come to these very products and services that we've now defined, in some way, round the whole cycle, that some of us can also call so mild indifference and injustice in the system itself, that let's say different types of medicines have different treatment or some other elements to correct them, and what we've said is that the strongest measure, this third round of tax discharge, is really the most relevant. So it's this fresh meat and fish, fruits, vegetables, diapers, eggs, live animals, no prescription drugs, delivery of cultural services, all of what we've now suggested to live. In the end I won't, I won't ignore this last part of the debate, he's the freshest, you're the nicest way and I'd say the emotional thing is good, and I'm glad now in the assembly we have, in a quick equal number of MPs and MPs, I almost said that you and most of them are. It is, of course, when we look at it all, then we can easily count it, so I have to remind you once again, our intention and you've said it well, you're a little bit, I'm not going to say it skillfully, but nicely said, all of it positively, there's no need to argue. But of course we should also tell entrepreneurs and all entrepreneurs. Because we didn't have a number of measures just came up with, well, but then we're neglecting things, and then these e-mails turns out to be hitting on entrepreneurs really hard because in these examples, which you said, sure as hell no one can remain immune to that kind of appeal or something you're talking about, but also those entrepreneurs have their employees, say. Well, we can also speak if their employees do what their status is. Their status is so that they are reported as income from unsuspecting work. So they pay the full amount of contributions, taxes, cuts and everything that belongs to them. At the same time, and any other entrepreneur, in any other system, on the same principle. What we thought and wanted with this measure, because you have identified yourself and in some of these emails says and it is always a challenge, as well as in what way to find a measure that will really hit a positive direction that is, while at the same time actuating different ways or possibilities of playing the system. Our intention, and this is the proposal that we went with, which we corrected in relation to public consultation, and you took part in public consultation, at the beginning of it quite energetically, in some things, we ourselves, I would say, were aware and confirmed that in that original part, public consultation was being manipulated with numbers and represented the wrong figures and because it was already said at the beginning that the payout had been conditioned and it was said that I had to earn 11,000 in order to do so. There's no such thing as 11,000 kunas in any scenario, is there? So the only measure and intent, and now that we're looking at this last proposal, is that there's no way of connecting what's being paid off with the rights. So it's not a matter of part-time, there are further exceptions, for pensioners, there are exceptions of course for people with disabilities, for maternity care, etc. However, at the same time we must have a certain link with rights, because at this point it is also an example which is not hypothetical but is real that for 48 kn per month or 12 minutes of daily application, you have the right to a lot of health insurance. So no one denies and no one enters that part that in some way beginners or micro or small to add some excessive burden that will make it impossible for them to start business, but yet a certain dose, I would say justice and logic in the tax system as such we must have. But, again, don't, and when you talk to entrepreneurs, these e-mails, I get similar e-mails, there are different kinds of emails, I could also read e-mails, where many people recognize these measures regardless of what you don't like to say, but I still have to say, see for yourself that 85% of entrepreneurs are in a 12% profit tax system. All those measures that we've taken to resist the monetary principle, all these measures that are directly and indirectly implicated, are mostly directed at entrepreneurs. And whenever it's done, then we say it's not enough or it could be a lot more. And I'm just pointing out these possible things that might still be possible as such. In any case, I think that even with these tax changes, I think that we can re-round the story in some way and say that this particular consolidation, stabilising public finances, opens this space, that tax discharge, but equally important and non-taxable and administrative discharge, can be applied not by waiting for the last year of office, but rather by 3 years of the term of office of this government, and that all taxpayers and entrepreneurs and citizens and all together can count on that direction to continue. I thank you once again for the debate and I will see you, of course, when we discuss amendments, or vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102563	I thank the Honorable Minister. We have replicas. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102564	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the thing, in the end, I think there's a question to be asked, so I'm going to give the answer right now. Why hasn't something been done before? Why didn't we put $5,000 a personal deduction before? Why didn't he leave his income tax to local self-government units earlier? Why haven't classes changed before? Why wasn't all this stuff that's been done for the last three years, it was done 10 years ago, 5 years ago, etc.? Well, probably because you couldn't. I guess, I don't want to think that someone didn't want to, and he could. Well, then it's for every conviction. Well, then we can probably do the same logic then, why don't we take it all now? Well, maybe you can't right now. But that doesn't mean that next year we don't have to discuss it further, move on, and always be aware of the conditions in which we are both state and budget, on the revenue side, so that we disburse the maximum, and that's the job of every citizen and employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102565	I thank my colleague Curai. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102566	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here, I'll just briefly remind you of the recent past. So, 2016, the year of entry into force of this government, therefore, we are talking about a public debt situation of 85% of GDP, and I am not sure that a lot of people would expect or in some way have been encouraged that in the first year of the term of office they immediately go with tax discharge. And we combined it with exactly the measure when we were putting together a budget to make a sharp control of the expenditure side of the budget, which we are constantly advocated rationally, responsibly, transparent spending of budget funds and all of this very surplus that is eventually created on the income side, used to reduce debt and further tax discharge. And that was, that was the principle and in some way the direction that we plotted at the beginning and consistency and in some ways the credibility of that continues to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102567	I thank Minister Maric for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102568	Thank you, Vice President HS, I must be the last. I'll try for a minute, I'm a little bit sick. First of all, as far as the calculation is concerned, I can give it to you, so take a look at your first proposal on the coefficient 1.1, so it's not mine, it's from different accountants. Second, what's good, we don't have to argue and waste time on it. It's good, every entrepreneur knows very well how good it is and that at least they've existed before. Third, you haven't answered my liquidator, the most important question, and fourthly, please ask someone to study the laws for beginners of all Member States and outside the EU, here, just please, just to see how they, which the laws they have for beginners and... What? [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ha, liquidator. Is it true that, then, again, we have different interpretations of this article, I think it's 187 f, in a law that says that the entrepreneur who concludes that his business is not good enough to cover all his costs and move the liquidation process. Does he continue to liquidate in that process, and we know that in the Republic of Croatia this process lasts from 6 months to a year, does he pay in this process and contribute 1.900,00 kn that this law obliges him at the end of the year? Here's a question that's been going on for days. No one knows the answer on social networks. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102569	Answer, Your Honor, Minister Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102570	Thank you very much. We'll check this out. I know until the 180th by heart, I don't know the 180th, we have to check it out, I have to make a little joke in the end. This, as far as this first part is concerned, we didn't have a lot of opportunities at the time when this public debate took place, because I see now that some media, among other things, are having a problem again, precisely the question of the accounting of these contributions or the basis for the calculation. So, neither in the original one, I have to do it again is it always stays somewhere then between or in some way remains some conclusion that something went anti-entrepreneurial, nor in the original proposal did it conditioned the amount of pay paid, but only the base. So this calculation that was presented on both social networks and in some public space was on that side, this one, guilty. But here, you'll always take the opportunity to say there's no need to talk about positive things. I think it's good to sometimes mention positive, even here in the Assembly because, among other things, further informed all our taxpayers, perhaps sometimes not some measure is neither well-recognized nor understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102571	I thank the Minister for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. I thank the other respected Minister of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Marić and Secretary of State Mr. Zdravko Zrinasic. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the agenda point: - Proposal for a law on flood protection in the river Kupa, first reading, P.Z. Number 461. Have a nice rest of the day. SECURE Interrupted at 18.27 hours
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102572	Good afternoon, everyone. So today we will be dealing with a statement on amendments to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Ivan Lovrinović, representative Ljubica Lukačić, representative of Zdravo Ronko, representative club of HSS, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, representative of Tomislav Žagar, Club of Representatives of the HDZ, representative of Željko Jovanovic and representative of Siniša Hajdas Dončić. There are 22 amendments in total. The review of the amendment was submitted by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. We have the Minister of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric with us. Here you go. So the first amendment is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, in Article 1 paragraph 2 is amended and reads and will now be continued by Mr Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102573	Thank you very much, good morning, all of you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102574	Then he becomes an integral part, meet a part of the bill we'll be showing ourselves about later. He is the second representative of Mr Ivan Lovrinović on Article 4th paragraph 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102575	The government does not accept this amendment. The provisions on the taxation of VAT coupons are the result of the harmonisation of the Council Directive of 2016 and cannot be observed in the context of the remuneration of workers. In order to make the value coupon provisions as clear as possible to the VAT Regulation, more detailed provisions should be laid down regarding the form of coupons and not considered to be a coupon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102576	So MP Lovrinovic is not in the assembly and otherwise it is not now voted, it is voted at 12, the amendment will then be voted on. 3. is the amendment of the MP, Mr. Zdravko Ronka, to article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102577	The government also does not accept this amendment. In order to meet the objectives of the overall tax reform in the VAT system, it has been observed that the overall VAT rate creates a high regression effect as some supplies of goods and services are burdened with a high general VAT rate and therefore the need for further discharge of taxpayers and economies as a whole has been observed. Let me just remind you that this provision should enter into force on 1.1.2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102578	Okay. Mr. Ronko, please be clear about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102579	Thank you very much. Respected ministers insisting on a pre-election promise to reduce VAT by 1% since 1.1.2020 is really unnecessary. But since you're stuck so hard, it should wait 11 months next year and then we'll discuss it. And until then, who knows what life carries. Whether to go for a cut and throw two billion into the wind, whether to extend a two billion variety of products taxed at a lower rate, whether to direct them, and two billion whether to direct them to compensation units of local self-government because we are reducing their property tax or by increasing the non-taxable part from 3800 to 5 thousand. So there's a lot of holes that should be shut up with those 2 billion going into the wind, so I'm asking you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102580	Okay. You want to vote 12 o'clock on that amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102582	Okay. Amendment 4 of the HDZ Representatives Club, please be my guest, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102583	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102584	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 5th is the amendment of MP Ljubice Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102585	Unfortunately, the government cannot accept this amendment, but as we have said, we will discuss this subject further, there will be certain adjustments in legislation or legislation. The provisions of the VAT Directive apply to the delivery of certain goods and services under Appendix 3 to the VAT Act in full to that Directive, which includes both the goods listed in Appendix 3 and their description to which the reduced VAT rate applies. And, of course, it is not possible to prescribe the provisions of the opposite, but in any case, we will have a discussion and conversation with both the honourable representative and, of course, to see in what way and how further help not only those with disabilities but all those concerned with this provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102586	Do you want to be obvious? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102587	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102588	Thank you very much. Amendment number 6 is set out in Article 6, Representatives' Club, I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of the Most Independent Lists' Club, here you go, Mr. Minister. [[Invader Maric: Yes, now...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102589	My apologies, Vice President. So, now this and several of the next ones usually comes down to an expansion of VAT rates and then, every time, you could repeat, of course, in line with fiscal possibilities, so all of what we could and in some ways assumed within the framework and projections and the budgetary possibilities themselves, we have already proposed for a reduction. So in this particular case we are talking about something that comes out of these frameworks, on the other hand some of the proposals are already being taxed at a reduced rate, so there are books and scientific journals, and at the same time as electronic publications, the amendments accepted by the government, are actually saying that the coverage of reduced rates and these electronic publications is being extended, which means that the VAT rate on books, newspapers, magazines, whatever form they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102590	Sustained. Who wants to be obvious? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102591	Dear Ministers, we believe that electronic publications should be equated with printed publications, this government swears to digitization, it is time to prove it. We have recently had even an attack by a party on me personally to favor these printed editions and in fact in some way by publishers, we will see how the CNS will vote on this because we believe that electronic publications should also be in a reduced VAT rate because of the fact that more and more such content is available and that makes it much easier for teachers at universities and teachers who are increasingly and more and more in a way buying electronic publications, here, we will ask to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102592	It means voting, okay. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102593	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, we're looking for a 10-minute recess to consult and discuss this tax reform debate. I'd say We're looking for a break, so [[I didn't hear, around?]] About the debate on amendments to tax reform in order to consult and to see how to put ourselves in the debate where we mention one more time, we point out to the Croatian public, that this reform increases wages for something more than 1% of the employees in the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Plenkovic and his elite, and that the vast majority of citizens do not improve the standard at all. [[Intruder Radin: Yes, yes, about what?]] To demystify little of the Minister's stories compared to the Government that was in 2012-2016, it means only in the past 3 years budget revenues and how the Government gives has increased by more than 25 billion kuna as planned for 2019. So the Government does not give but takes and on the other hand does not want to disburse and enable them to have higher salaries. The SDP advocates' club submitted to the parliamentary procedure a law that would increase the non-taxable share of salary to 5000 kuna and on that side allowed all in Croatia or the vast majority of employees in the Republic of Croatia to have salaries of 200, 300 kuna and those with 5500, 6000 salaries and not only Prime Minister Plenkovic and his elite. And on that side, we have to point out once again, we have to strongly oppose this species, it's neither this nor the reform but the injustice that the government of the Republic of Croatia is doing where they leave something to the citizens, in the last three years, budget passages have grown by more than 25 billion kuna. So please, don't point that out in your presentations, Mr. Minister, because you work exclusively for a tight circle of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102594	Thank you, too. You got that right, that was on behalf of the club, right? ... That makes me happy, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The stop is 9 and 52 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] Ivan Lovrinovic, who is not in Sali, so we will not ask for a statement, but we will ask for an opinion, an indication from Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102596	Your Honor, the government does not accept this amendment. Like I said before, most of this part, in art. On the same principle, we have proposed a set of measures that mean an additional tax discharge of 3 billion kn, since 1.1.2019, as regards the second part of the amendment, also linked to the VAT account, we note that taxpayers, whose value of the delivery in the previous calendar year was no more than 3 million kn, can already choose a way, the VAT billing which means that they can choose the budget, according to the cost of realisation, since all bonds with turnover up to 3 million kn, can choose not even change these legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102597	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102598	Also the government cannot accept this amendment, I will repeat /... [[/Intruder: Art. It is 6th, 8th Amendment 8th to Art. 6.)]] That's right. The government does not accept this amendment, as well as the previous, therefore, further expansion of the reduced rate, is outside the framework of fiscal opportunities, but in any case we will also consider such a proposal in further steps when conditions are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102599	Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102600	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, so let's look at this with two aspects. First of all, by looking at the economics, that's what we said in the debate, I don't know why you're afraid. Well, it won't, if the VAT rate decreases, I assure you, I'm not the minister, I would do it if I were you, you'll see that the VAT would be even better charged. But what we're looking at now is essential. Maybe we should consult, here's to the future, with the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. Look at the difference, we most of the milk that we buy today, that citizens buy in our malls, in action, most of that milk is permanent milk, which, and most of it is made out of milk fat. You here have a case of fresh milk that is later processed. Well, here's what I'm going to say, painty now, like this, maybe I'll be a tax haven too, 'cause what? I'll buy some fresh milk. I'll make my own sour milk. Well, I'm not paying the VAT rate for 25%. There's no danger. Acid milk is healthy milk and yogurt is healthy. Look what happened to... butter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Chinese market closed, the price of butter went dizzy. Maybe you could've rated the VAT on butter. These are all nutritious products, think about it well, and maybe for the future you could do something about it, and I'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102601	Amendment No. 9th also in Art. 6th Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102602	The government also does not accept this amendment. Therefore, the issue of public water supply and public drainwater was mentioned before, as regards the reduced rate and the rest of this amendment. Therefore, it is also necessary to take account of what can be applied to a reduced rate under the VAT Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102603	Mr. Panenic, request, evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102604	Thank you, well-respected Minister, let's be a little more advanced,... about it, is today women with their children, which is basically when they have a wheelchair, if you've seen most of those carts, are also seats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's universal, there's practically one package. So in this way, separating from each other, it's hard to understand and then we'll have in stores, which will be declared by the sellers themselves. Whether it's going to be a seat, so it's going to have wheels, or it's going to be a chair that has a seat. I think that should be taken into account that this is really about one thing, let's say, more innovative now, which is used, precisely for needs, to say, transportation, carrying children, so I would ask you to reconsider, the possibility to even it out, because we're going to have one chaos in the shops and it's going to be very difficult to determine what the seller wants to sell. A chair with a lower VAT or a bigger chair, I think it'll be all seats. Thank you very much. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102605	You're looking for a vote. Okay. Amendment No. 10. also Club of Representatives Bridge of Independent Lists per article. Six.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102606	Also, the government does not accept with a standard explanation, related to enlargement and fiscal effects and fiscal capacity here, because there are several amendments after that, specifically when comparing something with cinema tickets, in cinema tickets at a reduced rate for a long time, it was zero, now at 5, as a result of commitments made by some other international contracts which are then implemented as such and in legislation tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102607	Mr Panenic will explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102608	Here's the thing about the amendment that we had, but it certainly would've given another explanation primarily for water like that. We are increasingly and more in the construction of the drain system, by joining any household on the drain system, it becomes an integral part of his account. In this account, it is precisely the VAT issue that is becoming more and more important, the larger accounts are growing and, of course, the increasingly difficult business and water supply companies to charge. So I think that we would get a double benefit in order to make it easier for people to decide to join, on the other hand, the investments that have been made would be paid off, I think that this should be taken into account because water is not only a component of the bill but the same cost of disposal is becoming increasingly imposed and then this tax that you have predicted is going on, we suggest that you consider still descending to 5 but we will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102609	Amendment number 11 also of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, also on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102610	The government does not accept this amendment. I'll repeat again, of course, the fiscal effect, you remember in the first round of tax reform, then we said that we're dropping the VAT rate to 13% for livestock food, so that's when we only defined the products that are mostly used as animal food with the specification except for pets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102611	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102612	Thank you very much. Here I would just say what a pet means, it's very hard to tell from what's stated because that's where we saw the situation coming, for example. For the rabbit, the wild rabbit that is grown, we have a situation where he is taxed, delivery with 13%, food for the same rabbits will be 25%. I think there's a space where we should clarify the interpretation of this piece and we'll ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102613	There'll be a vote. Now we're on Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102614	The government doesn't accept it either. As with previous amendments for the same reasons, we can also say that we will also see concerns in the next circles, or when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102615	And that was the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists I failed to say, here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102616	Thank you very much. If we were to represent animals here, then they would say that this is absolutely discrimination because the rabbit is a wild animal growing. Then what's the difference between raising a heart, I don't know, a deer mare or any other wild animal. So we end up going to Pantovich and there are wild animals growing, and they're taking over a number of defense cooperatives and defense cooperatives, and I've been with me a witness to where they grow, from which meat is produced, and meat is delivered for human consumption. So here we have, if a rabbit as a wild rabbit is considered a breeding form, then I don't see what the difference is between him and one deer, deer or wild boar. We're going to ask for this vote so there are fewer who claim to be shovelers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102617	Okay, vote. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists has and that is Amendment 13, there is another amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102618	Mr. Vice President, the government does not accept this amendment, although we will say very clearly, so none happier than us in the government, not only because of this amendment, but then, of course, we ourselves would suggest an original thing that we have already said in public space. So in line with fiscal possibilities, in this circle we propose lowering the VAT rate on delivery or on fresh meat, fresh fish, fruits, vegetables, eggs, diapers, non-receptive medicines, but here we are talking about this food segment and it would be simpler for tax administration and, of course, much more acceptable for all citizens to obtain additional conditions for today-to-morrow and complete food, so including what we are talking about now, can be reduced to a reduced VAT rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102619	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102620	Thank you very much. We believe it is necessary to reduce the tax on products protected by geographical origin such as Slavonian and Baranja tower, Dalmatian, Držnik, Istrian and karski prosciutto. This is the minimum we have to do because we know d in the tourist season these domestic indigenous products must be competitive and by reducing to a minimum rate of 5% in fact we encourage domestic production, local prosciutto, local Slavonic tower and this geographical protected origin of these products. There's no reason. And you're saying that the government was the happiest to do it. Well, here, we have a chance. So we're giving you the amendment. So it's not just enough to come to the days of the alka, to Vrgorac, to Drniš, to the days of the ham and there to eat prosciutto to make people pay for it. Make it possible for people to be the lowest rate of domestic products, we stop at the end of imported lobbys that even from Italy imports and on it writes Dalmatian prosciutto, drža prosciutto rather than protect geographical origins, our products. I repeat again, Ministers, you are Slavonac, and at least you should have protected the Slavonian and Baranja tower, Dalmatian, Dražnik, Istrian and karst prosciutto. It is minimum due to the manufacturer, due to the development of domestic production and because of our brands that we can present as a tourist because otherwise we will fail and this production will take over these foreign products that appear on the shelves because ours can't compete with them. It's a specific production, and we're giving you the opportunity to solve it. I repeat, it is not just enough to come to these parts and at the expense of cities, municipalities and people to eat that prosciutto but to cut the tax to... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102621	Thank you, time. Looking for a vote, Mr. Bull? Okay. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] Amendment number 14, also the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, also referred to in Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102622	The government does not accept this amendment. It is therefore not possible to adopt this amendment to connect certain records or the inclusion of a particular organisation necessary to work more closely on the scope of the application of the reduced VAT rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102623	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102624	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, let's compare what the author or performer means and his membership somewhere. Here you are as independent as you were on the HDZ list, as I was on the MOST list. You were proposed for the Minister, as I was proposed for the Minister, you were even proposed to be Prime Minister in 2016, as a candidate for Prime Minister, do you feel that you have ever been discriminated against because you were not a member of the HDZ? Whether in this way we will discriminate against those who are not members of certain organisations, and deliver quality of their own goods and desires, of course, to be equal to those who must be members or who wish to be members. I mean, this is such a figurative comparison, but it's telling you, just that nothing less is worth being a member of an organization. We're looking for a vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102625	A VAT on membership wouldn't be a bad thing. So you're asking for a vote? Amendment number 15, House of Representatives Club HSS. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102626	The government does not accept this amendment. We're talking about a significant fiscal effect here, and I'm going to say it again, of course, and we're going to consider this measure at some further circles when we get the conditions, all the necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102627	Mr. Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102628	Thank you, Vice President. Well respected ministers, scheduled to cut VAT, from 25% to 13% to, uh, food products and others from the consumer basket, of course, to welcome. However, we at HSS believe that this is insufficient, because we have one of the highest VAT rates in the environment, on and similar products in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Serbia, 10%, in Slovenia is 9.5%, in Germany, 5%, and we do not think that it is sufficient to cut from 25% to 13%, we suggest that it be 10%, although we have suggested that some products that are traditional, we release VAT rates at all, to raise the competitiveness of that production, to raise the competitiveness of the Croatian agricultural and food industry, you did not accept it. And we do not agree that this will have the same effects as you have announced, because the majority of these products Croatia imports, and it is dependent on the European Union market, and we see that due to the elemental disasters, climate change, the prices of these products on the European market rise, and it is not expected that trade chains in Croatia will reduce those prices to that extent that our consumers will feel. They would feel more that this VAT has been reduced to those products that we produce in Croatia, to raise production of our family farms, to help our Slavonia and rural areas, to make their product competitive with those same or similar products in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary or Serbia, because you are also aware that many of our citizens are going across the border to buy these products, and what we are doing?, we are looking at how this is happening, let's change something. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102629	It means voting. Amendment number 16, also the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102630	The government doesn't accept it either. Again, the question of course of overall fiscal opportunities and capacity, as I said earlier, is certain that in the next circles we will consider that some other elements, even in the end, the whole food is brought down to a reduced rate, here we are talking about dried-meat products among other things, and, therefore, we need to be absorbed that the proposal is already in the original text of the Law, that the delivery of live animals, and thus fresh meat, is already at a reduced rate, so that we are already giving a certain incentive to domestic agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102631	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102632	Thank you... Dear Ministers, we asked that the rate of reduced VAT be extended to dried-meat products, towers and other traditional products be extended because, according to us from HSS, there is no logic in reducing VAT on live cattle, live pigs, to fresh meat, and we do not reduce to sausages, coolen and other dry meat products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't want to be just a raw material base in Slavonia anymore, we want to have a food, processing industry, and we can't do that if we're not competitive. There is a lot of investment in the funds of the families' farms themselves, and from the National sources, to raise the processing and production of dry meat products in Slavonia, and in other parts. And we have positive shifts. This proposal by HSS went to give them more wind in the sails, what little vitre, but to the family farms, to increase the production of these same, to be competitive, and not to buy these products in trade chains marked from Spain or Italy. And that's what happens most often, which is why we asked for this to be extended to dry-meat products, to cool and other traditional products, because in this way we would further strengthen our family farms, raise that livestock production in Croatia, and it is a shame that Croatia that was a poultry in pig production, over 70% of pigmeat imports. Minister Tolusic did not recognise this problem, nor did the proposal for a new budget foresee any new incentives for pig production, and that is not good, we are destroying the complete pig-goat production in Croatia, and by amending this Act and this article would certainly help to keep this production and processing in Slavonia, to cultivate that tradition, I expected from you as Slavonca support in that part. I'm happy to hear what you've said, maybe in the extra throws, we should have hit that point, and we could've done it by now and it would've been, it's already too late, you should've done it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102633	The vote. Amendment number 17, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102634	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The regulation of implementing provisions is necessary in order to clarify the basic legal provisions, given the way in which they provide guidelines that ensure simpler application of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102635	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102636	Here, thank you very much. ... be simplified or it might be further uncertain, which will all be in there, I think it would be much simpler if we had determined within the law, precisely what it is, as I know, that there is, a good intention, but waiting to be mentioned here and here that there might be additional throws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're looking for a vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102637	Thank you very much. You asked for vote means. Amendment 18 of Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's representatives is now up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government also cannot accept this amendment as well as the previous ones, of course, we are talking about the overall fiscal effect, but it should be re-absorbed that when compared to the cinema tickets and then giving some analogy to some other movie tickets are exclusively on a reduced rate, given the application of international contracts that are applied but also on this scale in the next circles will certainly be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102639	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102640	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you didn't say the Parliament and the public knew what this was about, it was about tickets to sports events. So, Your Honor, I'm sorry you didn't accept this amendment, but it's just one picture of false concern for your government's sport. So you have established and singled out from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of the Central State Sport Office, which has proposed to you a whole package of measures aimed at improving the position of sports in Croatia and allowing young people to deal with sport to a greater extent. The catastrophic fact that young people in Croatia in 15 years of age are first in the amount of alcohol drunk shows that the concern for sports is something that the government should pay more attention to. So the Central State Sport Office made proposals for profit tax, income tax, contribution tax and value added tax. You haven't appreciated any of their suggestions. This just shows the senselessness of being then the Central State Sport Office, which is part of your government and whose no proposal in the tax pact regarding improving the position of sport and allowing young people to practice sport to a greater extent without parents having to pay expensive fees you did not respect. There is no national strategy of sport or the Law of Sports either. Which is why there's a Central State Sport Office when you didn't fully appreciate their proposals that I wrote this proposal exactly on the basis of what the Central State Sport Office has done, so HDZ's body in the government that you're completely ignoring. It is actually regrettable and only shows complete concern for Croatian sport as well as for some other segments of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102641	Are you asking for a vote? Now, Mr. Lovrinović has asked for a word, please. [[Invadica Jovanovic: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for giving me the opportunity to tell the public, I was, in fact, during the time you called me you were in session of the Committee on Finance and Budget as a responsible representative, so I asked you to give me the opportunity now, I know that my amendments regarding VAT have been rejected but allow me only two minutes to comment on what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102643	Well, out of respect, I let you finish, such a circumstance is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, if it is late for any other reason, it cannot go back to the table of amendments sent, which has been sent by electronic means, and you always have the opportunity to appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, so that you ask for an opinion but you cannot explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102644	But let me just say that it's not not coming. Neither is my delay the result of my carelessness, but because I was in this House in second place and we're still discussing the VAT bill proposal, so I didn't miss a topic, nothing. [[Mr. Lovrinović, I'm sorry, I would like you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102645	Okay, I know you're a serious agent, and I know it's not your fault either, but that was fate. Let's move on, come on, I'm sorry. Amendment No. 19th Representative of Hajdas Doncic, Article 6. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102646	The government does not accept this amendment, I must repeat to you once again, so in the original text of the law, the Government has proposed to lower the VAT rate to children's diapers from 25 to 13 as well as all other measures in line with the fiscal capacities and opportunities that have been conducted and which have been taken into account. For this as well as these previous measures, we will certainly consider it in the following steps. But I repeat once again, and it's original from 25 to 13%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102647	Mr. Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102648	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, although we can discuss some other reductions in VAT rates because... the best social measures... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are some better ones, as far as special food is concerned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't quite agree with you here, even though it's true that if one month's package is now standing, that maxy pack of 260 kunas, so now it's going to be cheap at 226, an ominous sum, this is how it actually was 210 kuna. And I think that these 16 kunas per big package per month because let's be realistic so there are in, and I'm going to say in Europe and the world actually two big producers of P&G and Kimberly Clark who produce most diapers plus one domestic producer, I don't think that would jeopardize finance and that would actually be a good measure to facilitate what is spent most on families that have little children. Because I wouldn't agree that it's good to put diapers in the same class and say baby seats. Because children's seats are bought one time and most often, and I can say that in my own experience, then they're borrowed, so you don't need them every time, you have kids, right, so you probably know the same thing. And with diapers, it's actually a pretty big cost. So that way with 5%, so nothing excessive is lost I say that's about 15, 16 kuna with this reduced rate to the total. So think about it anyway. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102649	The vote means. We've come to Amendment No. 20., Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on Article 7 go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102650	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. Denial... in principle, it is permitted only for supplies which listen to the taxpayer for the purposes of his taxable transactions or where they are used for business purposes as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, taking into account the fact that means of transport are also used for both business and private purposes and for business purposes, the deduction of the pre-tax for such means of transport was made possible in the first round, i.e. it was in fact the second round of tax redundancy the deduction of 50% of the pre-tax. So, according to all of this, it is not possible for private cars used for taxable taxpayer transactions to apply the right to deduct pre-tax entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102651	Thank you, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102652	Minister, what I don't know is a company where a personal vehicle is used for personal purposes. I hope so. We can't even comment on the general meaning of private vehicles owned by Croatian companies used for business purposes all the rest is a violation of tax laws, so I think we need to be clear here. [[I don't know.]] Then this deduction that the pre-tax is recognised only 50% actually prejudges that our companies actually bypass tax laws. I would rather be a deduction of 100% and better quality control of how these vehicles are used because it is the control of the use of the vehicle, so it is not only a crime to be sought in some way by Croatian companies but also by Croatian institutions, and it is seen that politicians are also using a vehicle owned by a particular ministry of the institution for private purposes, so we should have taken off the agenda once to prejudge ourselves through legal solutions that there are abuses of certain rights. And on the other hand, how we will make progress on any scale and so on, if we do not recognise on this side what they have in other Member States, primarily the EU that are closest to us, means those rights, e.g. We have a farm where we don't have the full amount of direct payment incentives to get our farmers and so on. So in this part of it, you didn't even contribute to making a small millimeter shift on that list of doing business. We're gonna ask about this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102653	It means voting. Now, before we move on to Amendment 21, I take the opportunity to welcome students, students and students, their teachers of High Business School Par from Rijeka, I would like to offer a round of applause. Because we are always glad to see those who want to see the work of many MPs present at our sessions. [[Applause.]] Amendment No. 21 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists of Independent Lists on Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102654	The proposed amendment does not accept a specific record of receipts is necessary to provide data to monitor the flow of goods, we point out that bonds are not forced to keep new records, but only to require that the existing records to be delivered with the existing VAT form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102655	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102656	Thank you very much, I hope this is not an administrative one-off business. So you take as much as in the sum of how many hours the entrepreneurs will actually spend, or their employees, to deliver to you in order to make it more comfortable for you, instead of having the state through these all that employs the employees to be a service and those entrepreneurs and to be their first hand what eventually will be entrepreneurs again service the tax administration and other entities, state entities that in order to make it easier to track. So I don't think we've made an administrative discharge here, but just one extra commitment that costs, every second, every minute of working time has its price, I hope you're implying that someone's going to have to pay. Thank you very much. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102657	The vote means. And the last amendment to this law Amendment No 22, also the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102658	Government does not accept the proposed amendment the provision of insurance in order to meet the VAT obligations in obtaining the used means of transport necessary to ensure the collection of VAT when acquiring used means of transport from other Member States. [[Intruder: 18]] This is prescribed precisely in the case of cars, since the value of such goods is the frequency of such transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102659	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102660	So I would say that a car, a used car, compared to some other used products coming from the EU must be discriminating now. This car as long as it's not in traffic it's a piece of iron, plastic, electronics or as already we can find it in that sum and it's not a means of transport. The means of transport becomes one day when it registers, in order to register at all must pass the procedure and I do not see here why we will introduce a new obligation primarily to those who import those cars because we have been and a passing hand means from our here you come to the east of Croatia and you will see how many merchants have used cars that deliver their cars from there to Serbia to other countries because we have become favourable and we are close and we can do so. By introducing additional guarantees, these guarantees have their own price, any funding or stock for certain funding, we can expect this measure to increase the price of used cars in Croatia. On the other hand, it'll burden the possible re-export we've had so far. I think that with that we only favor those who sell new cars and again make it difficult to import used cars primarily those who meet all environmental conditions, so in the end means through a series of tax reforms you have made it possible to simplify these procedures, and now we have once again aggravating the procedure of a new financial imposition. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102661	Voting Yes, you can. [[Intruder: Here if I can just add...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102662	So we've been through these amendments now, and you haven't accepted any amendment to the opposition. Turns out, in fact, that none of them are absolutely good, that they're just that it seems to be some other tax reform, let's take into account that there are still amendments to the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102663	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-15-0.u102664	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on Value Added, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 432, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Ivan Lovrinović, representative Ljubica Lukačić, representative Zdravko Ronko, Club of HSS Representatives, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, representative of Tomislav Žagar, Club of HDZ Representatives, representative Željko Jovanovic, representative of Siniša Hajdaš Dončić. The review of the amendments was sent to you by electronic means and the amendments were made manifest in this morning's session. We will now vote on amendments that the proposing does not accept, so let's go in turn. The first amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club was accepted. The second representative of Ivan Lovrinović, the government does not accept, let's vote, please. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We are now going to the third amendment of Zdravko Ronka, who the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment number four of the HDZ Representatives Clubs has been accepted. Amendment number five of Ljubica Lukačić has been withdrawn. Amendment number six of MOST representatives of independent lists is not accepted by the government, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. The seventh amendment by MP Ivan Lovrinovic is not accepted by the government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number eight of Tomislav Zhagar's MPs is not accepted by the government, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number nine of MOST's representatives of independent lists is not accepted by the government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number ten of the same club representatives, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number eleven of the same club is not accepted by the Government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number twelve of the same club the government does not accept, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number thirteen of the same club the government does not accept, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number fourteen of the same club the government does not accept, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number fifteen of the HSS Representatives Clubs is not accepted by the Government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number sixteen of the HSS Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number seventeen of MOST representatives of independent lists is not accepted by the Government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number eighteen representatives of Zeljko Jovanovic The government does not accept, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. An amendment number of nineteen representatives of Cynthia Hajdaš Doncic's Government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number twenty of MOST's clubs is not accepted by the government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number twenty-one of the same club representatives is not accepted by the Government, please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number twenty-two Clubs of Representatives of the Most Government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. So then we move to a vote on the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, please vote. I find that most votes 71 for and 48 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax.
