ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81166	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to today's order and the first point is: - Proposed law on probation, first reading, P.Z. number 312. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 172 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Mr. Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. There's a whole new law on probation before you and I'll brief you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 2(4)(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The enforcement of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed by the Law on the Penalty of Prisons and the Prosecution Act. The first Prosecution Act was adopted in December 2009 and was the basis for the construction of a professional probation service after the opening of a trial office in 2011 and the system became more clear in which direction the probation service should be developed in the Republic of Croatia. Amendments and additions to the Penal Code entered into force on 1 January 2013 have prescribed a number of newspapers in determining individual institutes from the jurisdiction of the probationary system, so it was necessary to draft a new Prosecution Act. The 2012 probation law in force from 1 January 2013 was adopted in order to comply with the new Penal Code. In parallel with the entry into force of the new Prosecution Act in January 2013, the last 12th Prosecution Office in the Republic of Croatia was opened and the Prosecution Service lived on a full scale, became available to all citizens and began to carry out various jobs in all stages of the criminal proceedings as prescribed by the Criminal Law and the Law on Prosecution. The professional probation service today operates through the central office of the Ministry of Justice and 12 local probation offices. In 2016, the probation service achieved excellent results in the execution of probationary tasks. 4.147 new items in the work 90.4% were successfully completed, and persons involved in the trial completed a total of 539.780 hours of work for the general benefit. This constant increase in the number of subjects in the work of probation offices is significant. Of the 1573 items received in 2012 over 3304 items received during 2013, and in 2016 1474 subjects were received for general good. There is a significant increase in parole cases in which probation officials work with the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. For example, in 2016, there were 194 convicts who committed crimes of murder, 117 convicts who committed rapes. This increase in the number of cases shows that sampling in the criminal justice system has been accepted as a professional and relevant partner in the sanctioning process. Since amendments to the Penal Code in 2015 lays down, among other things, new powers for the digestive system, it is necessary to comply with the Prosecution Act. Namely, amendments and additions to the Penal Code shall be placed in the jurisdiction of a part of the security measures. In addition, there have been changes related to the supervision of the implementation of specific obligations and the enforcement of criminal sanctions on labour for the general good. But also in 2017, there was a need to adapt the Probation Act. The practice of the work of probation offices over these years has also shown the need for certain changes in the legislative arrangements for the execution of probationary tasks. Due to the above, amendments and additions to the Law on Testing as to how many interventions in the law were made, we decided to pass the new Law on probation before you. In addition to the proposal for a Prosecution Act, it proposes harmonising with amendments and additions to the Penal Code, in particular with regard to the enforcement of certain security measures as a matter of probation authority and redefining the performance of work for the general good and specific obligations, the accuracy of the supervision of probation and protective supervision and other issues governed by the Criminal Law, which relate to the execution of probationary tasks. It is also particularly important to point out that the case law and the expert views of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that part of the provisions of the Prosecution Act are what we have done in this proposed law. Therefore, the new Prosecution Act will facilitate and speed up the conduct of the probationary officers, improve the cooperation of other stakeholders and address deficiencies related to the issue of jurisdiction. Its adoption also harmonizes the conduct of probationary officers in relation to the tasks placed in their jurisdiction by amendments and additions to criminal law. The remaining changes are the result of alignment with the amendments to the law on the execution of prisons and the need to which the practice has been highlighted as well as the removal of the perceived ambiguities in the application of the law itself. This bill regulates provisions that need to be harmonised with the Criminal Law, as well as those provisions that have caused difficulties in application and are now regulated in a way that meets the needs of practices, but also recommendations from the inning project, support for further development and strengthening of testing services in Croatia in accordance with EU standards and European practice. The final date for the delivery of the annual report on the work of the probation service shall be set which shall be consistent with the date of submission of the annual reports of the other national authorities. The establishment of an inter-resor committee composed of representatives of relevant bodies, judicial authorities, police, prison system, testing, welfare systems etc. is also envisaged. Important improvements have been made regarding the conduct of probationary tasks, such as the issue of the collection of personal and other data, and it is clearly defined that the trial only treats adult perpetrators of criminal offences. In the light of the specific chapters, the enforcement of security measures, mandatory psychiatric treatment, mandatory treatment of addiction, mandatory psychosocial treatment and enforcement of obligations after the resolution of the State's attorney. The draft law on probation related to the execution of work for the general good has introduced major changes that have been initiated by the current practice in the execution of probationary tasks. It will contribute to better equality and better quality enforcement of this sanction. The proposal more clearly defines the authority to monitor the enforcement of this sanction and the authorities to which the trial reports are submitted and delivers notices in concrete cases, which is expected to contribute more quickly to the decision-making process, which is of particular importance in cases of non-execution of work for the general good, i.e. avoiding enforcement of criminal sanctions. Furthermore, the possibility of adopting a solution to postpone the implementation of the work for the general good prior to the adoption of a reference to work, which was not provided for by the existing law and proved necessary in practice. In practice, it has often occurred that one of the reasons for the delay occurs before the solution, for example acute illness, and then it was necessary to make a solution to refer to the work for the general good, and then a new solution was made to the postponement that only the additional system was bureaucratised. The reasons for the postponement and termination of work for the common good have also been expanded to comply with the living situation and the needs of the persons involved in the trial. For example. the possibility to postpone work for the general good due to seasonal affairs or to go on board, and for which there has been no legal possibility. It is also now possible to adopt, by official duty, a solution on the postponement or termination of work for the general benefit if the person involved in the trial is not able to request it. For example, such a need was observed during elementary disasters in Eastern Slavonia. Prosecution operations shall also be subject to the supervision of the suspension of the execution of the sentence of imprisonment when decided by the judge and the supervision of the use of convenience during the execution of the sentence of imprisonment when the prison, i.e. the penitentiary is assessed as necessary, and so far it has not been fully defined and clearly defined. With regard to the delivery of the report by the probationary service at the request of the competent authorities, it is more precise when the prison, i.e. the penitentiary, may request a report from the probation service and more specifically describe the circumstances which the probationary officer checks in the context of the delivery of the conditional leave report to the competent authority. With regard to the practice officers themselves, it is said that they belong to a special salary allowance due to the weight and nature of the job and the specific working conditions. Namely, probation officials work daily with high-risk perpetrators of criminal offences without special security protection. In addition, probation officials are very often on the ground which includes going to the home of the perpetrators of a criminal offence, and part of the probation work can also be carried out in penitentiary penitentiary facilities and prisons in direct work with prisoners. People involved in the trial very often have severe health problems, mental illnesses, personality disorder, psychosis, PTSD, etc. which increases the risk to the life and health of probationary officials. Specific additions to the salary of probationary officials are prescribed by the Regulation on jobs and special working conditions in the State Service. This proposal also introduces the badge for probationary officials for better recognition. And ultimately, the consequences that will arise if Parliament adopts this law. The Prosecution Act will comply with the amendments and additions of the Penal Code and, accordingly, this new law will cover all probational affairs. The new law on probation will also simplify the work of the probation service, which will contribute to the quality of the performance of the work and speed up the co-operation of probation offices with the competent authorities. The strategic commitment of the probationary system, in cooperation with the community, to protect the public and reduce the risk of relapses, through rehabilitation and reintegration of perpetrators of criminal offences, has been detained and promoted with the community. By passing a new law on probation, more rational and effective enforcement is expected. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here, distinguished MPs and MPs, that's what on behalf of the government at the moment, before the first reading I wanted to tell you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81168	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. But before I give my word, I'd like to draw attention to my colleagues and colleagues that at 10:00 P.M., there's a crime-free exhibition at the Bashcan Tablet, so here's a call for those who can, who won't discuss it at that time or possibly later. But now we're going to the replicas, he's the first respected representative of Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81169	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The first law on probation was passed in December 2009 and was the basis for building a professional probation service. Since the Croatian Parliament voted in May 2015 to amend and supplement the Penal Code which sets out, among other things, new responsibilities for the probation system, there is also a need to bring it in line with the Prosecution Act. This is the implementation of certain security measures, it is a new job in the area of probation and redefining work for the general good and specific obligations. This law removes some ambiguities in the application of this law and in this law. We think this law is already complete and complete in the first reading. For example. the possibility of delay, interruption of work for the general good due to seasonal work or departure to the ship or the like. So if we know that the shortage, especially the seasonal workforce, I think the second reading should be as soon as possible. How about I ask, uh... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81170	My friend Kirin, you've exceeded 23 seconds of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81171	And then I didn't ask anything, and then I didn't ask. What do you think a second reading should be done as soon as possible because of these problems with seasonal work, just so there's no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81172	I ask all colleagues to ask the question as specifically as you have put this at the end, not to be pledoies before that. Here's a response from the respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81173	Your Honor, we are, the government has proposed this law, we have not seen important reasons to go into a shortened procedure. If we didn't see these reasons then we wouldn't be able to do this in a permanent way right now to rush Parliament, let Parliament discuss it to hear suggestions and expert and suggestions, so I would say to the general public, possibly to fix something through these two readings so that we don't have to change it for the next 10 years, which contributes to the stability of the legal system in particular in this criminal sphere where the stability of the system is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81174	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81175	Dear colleagues, I think the legal system is the first task of predicting who will commit the crime, to see who will do it again. Do you have any statistics on how many crimes were committed when someone was on probation, any such statistics? It doesn't matter to this victim whether this man is disturbed, if he's got a crime in genes, etc., and it won't help even extort psychiatricly, but only laws. In some countries, for example, you have. If three crimes,... Third out, for life, etc.. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rehabilitation, you can't rehabilitate, they've never been rehabilitated. Do you understand what I'm saying? And now as possible, the people of the open source of information, some drive seven times drunker and kill someone and they're still on the road. If the law doesn't comply, probation, etc., it's a missed ball.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81176	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81177	Dear Representative Glasnovic. So the rule of law is a sacred institute recorded in our Constitution and we seek the rule of law, therefore security for all. What you're talking about is a desirable story. So criminal legal space has its three elements, so we have where society is determined what will... So it protects the highest social values. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then we have procedural laws that talk about tools that will be used to determine whether someone did it. Legal certainty guarantees to all, to every citizen, and to one who commits a crime that his guilt will be found in the legal procedure. This part we're talking about today is the execution of criminal sanctions and he's, I'd say, getting more modern and more quality. We need to adapt it to a level of protection of human rights, and we are doing it with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81178	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81179	Dear Secretary, of course I support general work, work for the common good, and of course it's in this law,... In general, for the implementation of this law, the means and implementation are the most important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can you explain that a little bit, how they don't need funds when they're going to need people to actually enforce this law? And it is very important that we must know from the experience of general work that only large fish have peeled potatoes, and those who have not had that possibility and for much less criminal activities for which they have been convicted have not had the possibility of general work. We can remember former Minister Cobankovic, who, in his confession, helped buy the former prime minister's apartment, favored Sanader, to peel potatoes for millions. Therefore, we need to make sure that the general good is in the interest of everyone and that they are all under the same criteria because people don't trust the judiciary, that's the basic problem because large fish dole potatoes while for petty crime people are in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81180	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81181	Dear Representative Bulj, at this point, we are not discussing criminal policy, but you are already as an advocate, even if you do not know that criminal offences are defined by criminal law, that the procedural rules are defined by the Law on Criminal Procedure to act by law on criminal proceedings as one special, third branch of the authorities and that they are autonomous. We're here in the area of criminal sanctions and this law regulates it. As far as new funds are concerned, so I said that implementing this law does not require new funds other than those planned in the state budget, we have a service developed and these tasks do not require additional resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81182	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first representative of the SDSS Club will speak on behalf of the respected representative Draga Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81183	Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. We have before us a law on probation, and probation as is known is conditioned and supervised freedom of perpetrators of crime. During conditional freedom, probationary officers conduct surveillance and professional procedures affect risk factors among perpetrators of a criminal offence with the aim of resociating and reintegration of the perpetrators into the community. The theories suggest that probation is a model of a society’s professional reaction to the criminal or misdemeanor behavior of individuals. To these persons, the court imposes a prison sentence but they do not support it but they stay in their natural environment, not alone, as is the case with a conditional conviction, but under expert supervision and with professional assistance. It is important to point out that statistics say that probation reduces relapse by almost three times, which is very important and what it says about a very important not only legal but social component. We should keep in mind that the task of probational service is double. On the one hand, the probation service is working to rehabilitate and resociate the perpetrators, while on the other hand helping to protect the community from criminal behaviour. Quality testing work would be almost impossible without a number of partners with whom the probation service cooperates in the community. The courts, the State's Attorney's Office and the judges of the probation service require the conduct of tasks that are just being tried by the law and given jurisdiction. They shall also follow the method of performing probational tasks and, where appropriate, advise probationary officers. As far as the community is concerned, the Probation Service is working with the police, with the prison system primarily timely exchanges of information and then through other forms of joint work. Regarding the reintegration and resocialisation of perpetrators of criminal offences, the Prosecution Service is working with a number of different governmental and non-governmental organisations that can help overcome the difficulties that the perpetrator may have and what we have heard from the previous presentation of the esteemed secretary of state, so mental disorder and various forms of addiction, violent behaviour, etc. Also, for the purpose of the termination of criminal offences, the perpetrators are included in educational programmes, requalification programmes and the like, and it is necessary to cooperate with the Employment and Various Educational Institutions at the same time. In Europe and beyond, probation services and the enforcement of alternative sanctions are not an exception but a rule. More and more states have more perpetrators of criminal offences under the control of probation, therefore, than it is in prisons. Probation service in Croatia is still a young service, established during negotiations on Croatian EU membership with the help of EU projects. This is why it is fully and fully in line with the EU recommendations and the system is also in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations. Best European practice has been used to create a Croatian model of testing. The amendments to the Prosecution Act were followed, as we heard, by amendments to the Penal Code and into alignment with the same. The trial has become an inescapable part of the criminal system at all stages of the criminal proceedings. In early 2013, the probation service developed in its full scope and became available to all citizens and began to carry out different jobs in all phases of the criminal procedure as prescribed by the Criminal Law and the Law on Prosecution. An increase in the number of subjects in the work of probationary offices is observed. From 1573 items received in 2012 over 3304 items in 2013 to 4147 items in 2016. The continued increase in the work of the probation offices requires a need for improvement and a better organisation. The probationary service shall aim to protect the community from the perpetrators of a criminal offence. It can only be successful if it is integrated into the community and well-known. In addition to the wider community, the key thing for the success of the probation service is certainly to gain the trust of the expert community in the front row of judges and state lawyers. The first law was passed in 2009 and was the basis for building a professional probation service. The new law should facilitate and speed up the conduct of probationary officers, improve the cooperation of all stakeholders and remove issues related to jurisdiction. The new law further proposes to set the end date for the delivery of the annual report on the work of the probation service, which should be in line with the date of submission of the annual reports of other national authorities. It is proposed, as we have heard, the establishment of an inter-resor committee composed of representatives of relevant authorities, judicial, prison systems, system testing, social care. Now that I would like to hear from the Honorable Secretary of State an explanation in which cases this inter-resor committee will be drawn up. Further harmonisation of the new Prosecution Act on the issue of enforcement of certain security measures as well as of the tasks of the probation authority. Redefining, carrying out work for the general good and specific obligations, precise monitoring of parole and protective supervision. The improvements planned to be introduced by this Bill are related to the performance of probationary tasks in terms of improving the collection of personal and other data, and for the first time it is explicitly defined that the trial is conducted by adult perpetrators, only by adult perpetrators of criminal offences. Specific chapters of the Law dealing with the enforcement of security measures, such as mandatory psychiatric treatment, mandatory treatment of addiction, mandatory social treatment, and enforcement of obligations under the resolution of a state attorney. One of the important tasks of the probation service, the execution of work for the general good on the loose, which is partly carried out in state institutions, and in many cases in the context of NGOs. The current data is therefore that the probation service is working with more than 1140 legal entities. It is not to be mentioned, therefore, that through the general good efforts to show that this is indeed a debt to society, and if a little prominent in the media, during the great flood in Eastern Slavonia, we know that we are coming from that area, under the organisation of probation services, convicts through the work for the general good in the flooded areas have done about 11 thousand hours on water pumping operations, the extraction of carcasses of animals from the flooded area. The proposal also defines the possibility of adopting a solution to delay the execution of work for the general good prior to the adoption of a reference to work which was not provided for by the existing Law, and in practice it has proved necessary. It has often occurred that one of the reasons for the delay occurs before the solution, e.g. acute disease, and then a solution was needed to refer to work for the general benefit, and then a new delay was made. The reasons for the postponement and termination of work for the general good have been expanded to comply with the living situation and the needs of the persons involved in the trial. So the possibility of a postponement or termination of work for the general good because of seasonal work or going on board has been introduced. I find it particularly interesting to settle issues in cases of pregnancy and complications in pregnancy. I think these solutions are acceptable and will lead to a greater economicity of the system because we often have the opportunity to hear that our prison system is overloaded by the number of people who are on board the fines, which is why we give up the permitted standards. Just by testing that prison system, it's being relieved. The draft law also proposes to monitor the suspension of the execution of a prison sentence when it is decided by the Court of Justice, and to monitor the use of convenience during the execution of the prison sentence, if that sentence or prison is deemed necessary. Something about people involved in the trial. So often, such individuals carry with them specific difficulties, addictions, violent behaviors, difficulties in finding different roles, beginning with parental, marital, or work roles. In order to assist them in the process of social reintegration, cooperation with all relevant authorities is necessary, but should be taken into account and the complexity of the activities carried out by probationary officials. It should be recalled that in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, we have a total of 93 probation officers, of which 15 officials in the central office, 13 administrative referents and only 65 probationary officers who work directly with persons involved in the trial. European standards speak of a probationary officer working with 50-60 convicts. Gold standards, say there's a Norway working with 30 convicts. Unfortunately, in some of our offices, one probation officer works with as many as 130 convicts. The new Law defines the right to a special allowance for the work of probationary officers in probation offices for the purpose of performing demanding work, both in the office and in the field, and in the penitentiary and prisons, which largely exposes probationary officials to risks and hazards in work. I find this very newspaper justified in view of the complexity of both this call and the dangers that this call brings with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81184	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Raguž will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81185	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. The trial system in the Republic of Croatia has begun construction within the framework of what has been said, the process of European integration of the Republic of Croatia. The first 2009 Probation Act has just taken over the best European experience in the activities of the probation service, i.e. Western experiences, for example from the United States. In time, with the establishment of the central office and regional testing offices that were trying to cover the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, organised in a way that was established for the Zagreb area of the city of Zagreb, and for the Zagreb County, Karlovačka and Krapinsko-Bilogorska, the entire area of the Republic of Zagreb is thus covered, so that the probationary service is available within the framework of an alternative criminal and legal sanctions programme. It should therefore be pointed out, therefore, that this dimension is therefore based on the Law on probation under the Penal Code which allows the criminal justice system to be applied, in addition to the main criminal and criminal sanctions on the maintenance of prison sentences and fines, alternative criminal sanctions such as conditional convictions, such as conditional convictions with protective supervision or work for general good with freedom. In this way, a number of positive effects have been achieved for convicts in the Republic of Croatia in order to ensure some necessary elements to help prevent relapses for new offences. And that is precisely the basic purpose of the probation service to monitor the enforcement of alternative criminal sanctions, to enable faster reintegration of the perpetrators of criminal offences, to enable the maintenance of his communication with the family and the environment from which he encourages all elements to prevent relapse or recurrence of criminal offences. It is important to stress that the new Proposed Law on Testing has taken into account all positive experiences in the work of the probation service in the Republic of Croatia. The new provisions of the Prabation Law are based on the experience gained by certain and more precise deadlines in the framework of the testing service structures and their more precise responsibilities between the central office, the regional probation offices, and also on all elements that will enable the purpose of the probation service. In particular, the exercise of the activities of the probationary service is organised within the public authority, and then to institutions and legal persons who, in the context of their basic activities and auxiliary jobs, allow the maintenance of alternative criminal sanctions, in particular work for the general good with freedom. These are institutions dealing with humanitarian work, institutions dealing with educational and educational work, but also institutions dealing with municipal activity. In such cases, the key objective of the enforcement of alternative criminal sanctions is realised. We've heard that there are good experiences in the number of cases taken into account in the number of completed cases, but we've also heard how the economic dimension of the work of the probation service is emphasized, due to a limited prison system, due to a number of other savings that enables the probation service to function. Provisions under the new Proposition of the Prosecution Act also bring about a number of other necessary changes, i.e. strengthening the information system in the framework of the probation service, better ways of evaluating the experimental activity compared to the employees in the framework of the probation services, one more systematic and rational approach that will allow for the basis of the takeover of all experiences that have been discussed better functioning of the testing system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81186	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Orsat Milenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81187	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. I'll be very, very brief. So first and foremost we support this change, it's good, so it's not a change, it's a new law. Until now, I would say that the rehearsal since the beginning of 2009 is one of unfortunately rare successes, I say unfortunately rare, successful stories in Croatia. So that's something we didn't have before, it started in the establishment, at first it was relatively difficult to know the colleagues who were going through it, at all, being shown to the whole system that brought trial. When I talk about the whole system, I speak from the judiciary to the prison system to the state administration, but in time, a system has been built that gives absolutely good results and that not only just justify budget fees for it but in my view justifies that it is invested even more. So not entering the law-making solutions, they're all in place, they're all showing up on the basis of the practice, based on the experience of people who work in the system, so they're good. What I will especially point out is that the law regulates additions to the salaries of probation officials. We've been dragging them through sublaws so far, they've been so relatively always on impact. However, we must all imagine the conditions in which these people often work. So you've got someone who's endured a prison sentence for murder, gets out, enters the probation system. Maybe the person was 20 years old, 30 years in prison completely unsocialized or completely out of social modes and then comes into some trial office that doesn't even have physical protection because there's no insurance service there, and you now have to put that person in some kind of program to direct her what and how and set her some expectations, but also limits, that's what probation officials do every day. So that supplement is more than justifiable and it shows me a vital message that this service is cared for as much as possible, and that in the perspective of thinking, that's what needs to be done, means that probation work is also being expanded. Because there are segments where probation can enter, not now, not with this number of employees I'm just talking about a vision of how other countries work and that's, why does it matter? This is important on the one hand for prevention where a whole series of data obtained, which are collected through the past are used to process someone, and when someone is treated, the chances of a misdemeanor are less likely to happen, so the odds are that citizens will suffer some adverse consequences of such a crime, but that we will also pay from the budget for it. So that's one thing. Secondly, if someone is already in that system, then it's good to have as much data as possible to adapt to punishment on the one hand, on the other hand, when they come in afterwards to ensure that this person, I'm saying that it should be, that this person should be placed in society. And that's where I see the development of probation and through greater engagement which is not in the jurisdiction right now, but I'm talking about perspective, through greater engagement to look for jobs for people who have served their sentence, so you give them some place in society to earn their own money, that they don't have to steal or do it again, and I don't know what, that's important. That's one direction of development that would be important. The other is one thing, and I'm going to appeal to it, and here's the assistant in charge of it that actually worked all the time on probation, and that's what you need to do more work for the general good, more control institutions, I know it's hard with a small number of employees, but the incidents in which someone happens to get confirmation, and in fact they didn't even show up at work, they don't need to happen, and they used to happen, we know that. So that's something where you need to strengthen supervision, but also institutions that receive such persons must be aware that they are not there to do any service, but they are there to do something that is binding on them and that is a substitute for prison, let's not forget that, because the alternative is prison. What needs to be appealed especially to the power of fate and I hope that these things move because there were problems, which is that the judicial authority recognizes more and respects the higher system of probation. The probation officer is the worst thing if he doesn't have the option, I'd say and cancel, of course he doesn't have it directly, but if he knows that the judge won't support him when someone doesn't perform the work, etc. or any commitment of their own, if they don't support it, they'll exorcise it. It destroys the authority of a probation officer and actually makes his job difficult. So that synchronization, that's what you should be working on, but I think it's a matter of visibility. The new institute, people just need to learn about it and they need to know what it brings, because if we use it, you just imagine the next one, in a good way, thanks to how many employees do you have? 100. By good work, thanks to 100 officials in the probation offices, we have reduced by about 3000 prison populations in Croatia. So imagine what that gain is, it's not just about that, there's a change of the Penal Code connected, etc. But count on how much with one probationary officer, compared to the prison system, how much when he pulls someone out of that system, you put him in the digestive system, how much we as a society profit and what a good thing it is. So, not to prolong, once again, we support these changes, we support further work and we give all support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81188	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Next is Honorable Representative Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81189	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Assistant. I'm glad all the clubs talked in a positive tone about this bill, it's good and I'm glad you recognize the quality work of the probation service itself. We recently had a report in the debate about an apartment in the penitentiary where it is clear that the total number of prisoners who have passed through the prison system is about 11,000 prisoners, but in a decline trend, some 4% a year, which is positive. Regardless of the current situation in the prison system where some capacity of the system is 3900 persons and is not filled until the end, it should definitely be emphasized that the merit of the work itself is the probation service. When we see all the activities, the whole engagement, the number of people, and what's been done in the last maybe 5, 6 years, we see that this detour and service activities, that they've definitely been bearing fruit. It should be noted that the probation service itself is organised normally through the Ministry itself, but its offices. It's got great results, we see, I kind of calculated it, somehow in 5 years almost 5 times the number of objects that have been solved 90%. A special increase was in the subjects of general good, which we know several years ago was definitely not well established, nor organized, we can say it was nonexistent, there was kind of a dead letter on paper, and a lot of people were just getting away with this work for the general good, but we see now and by the number of hours done, by the number of people who went through that system, we see that they're definitely showing excellent results. The new Prosecution Act itself will make it easier, we have seen, in an explanation, to speed up the conduct of probationary officers, to improve cooperation with other judicial staff. It is also good that this law is based on most, I can say in the work of the probation service, meaning that it was not written dry from some group that simply prescribed certain provisions, aligned with the Penal Code and others, but was done precisely from the practice of the probation service, all that they saw on the ground that it was not adequate, it is not possible, it is now introduced into the law that they too can act more easily. The paper itself has since the introduction of additional reports on the enforcement of sanctions, enforcement of security measures, reasons for the postponement and termination of work for the general good which is good and for Dalmatia related to the season or to some general problems that prisoners have. Controlling the suspension of the prison sentence, I think it is necessary to stress definitely and prevent, all these security measures must have that preventive character. Regarding the work of the probation service itself and what is complemented by the Law, it is simply stated that this work is difficult and difficult, that there should be added to the salary which I think is definitely positive. All the colleagues here have mentioned it. We know in which situations and times the probation officers are faced with what kind of persons, so they're definitely risk areas and risky actions, so that's why this special supplement has to exist. Normally, we need to give full support to this bill proposal, noting that we have to pay close attention to the structure of the persons who are going through the probation service and all the measures that exist. We must also point out that there is a huge difference in judicial decisions between courts and treatment of certain prisoners, here is what colleagues have mentioned, but in order to bring them back to society in a good way and not to have problems, how often we have after the punishment, we have to invest in as much quality work as possible and in part of the probation service as well as all other bodies and measures, so that we definitely see the number of people, when we see problems of unsocialised prisoners, when we see problems of non-coordination of judicial authorities, without mentioning the decisions of certain courts in certain cases, when we have persons with 50 criminal and criminal charges that are constantly after prisons, when they come into society and we see how society itself behaves, we definitely do not need to save on probation services, we do not need to save on employees or on all pay supplements, but definitely full support and do as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81190	Thank you very much. The next debate is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81191	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Martinovic, colleagues and colleagues. So we've already heard a lot through previous discussions and clubs and, individually, that it's actually a new law that's been made, it's been going into this new law, and it's not going to change and supplement itself because more articles have been changed, and I agree with all those who have said that it's actually about the changes that have actually been made based on experience, based on the previous really collected data from the field, so it really seems that this law is the result of it being life, and that it's the result of all the shortcomings that have been seen on the ground itself, which is really good and positive, and what really should be recognised. In any case, they were done, I'm also saying this from the position of experience, but cooperation with probation offices because experiences are important experiences of institutions, organisations where work measures are being carried out for the common good. It is precisely this collaboration that is extremely important and that is what I would like to stress in this debate because I am working as a probation officer or the system itself is good, especially when it comes to working for the general good, is good enough if this cooperation with institutions where the work for the general good is carried out is good. The effectiveness of the measure itself or the success of the resociation itself, the success of the measure will be as good if this cooperation is said, good. It is certainly also positive that the possibility of suspending the work measures themselves for general good for the objective reasons set out in this Act is also introduced. As well as changes to the institutions where measures are to be implemented because it is likely to be, and this is based on experience that it could not, therefore, complete one, work for the general good in one institution for objective reasons of the person or the institution itself and that it was then made it easier to at the same time, that it could continue in another establishment that there was no interruption itself. It's also this Law, and that's what's very good, and even more is recognised by the work of the probation officials themselves. We have seen previous exhibits, and this shows figures, it will probably show a report for 2017, that we actually have some way of sub-opting the offices and the system itself and that there are still insufficient numbers of probation officials, given how much it takes and how much it is, how much it includes the tasks of the probation officials themselves. We've seen them work on different jobs and that responsibility is really big. I am particularly stressing that part from the assessment of the crime-related risks themselves to the development of an individual plan to the very monitoring of the implementation of a certain measure. For this very reason, I believe that this system will also go and that we will somehow reward this system in such a way that we will develop and that we will contribute to the less burdensome of probationary officials and that they can do all these tasks even more effectively. It is precisely these results that we will probably see for 2017 that will also point to this problem but also to the fact that, I am going back to what I said earlier, working with organisations where the work for the general good is carried out that it is actually carried out, it is really supervised and that it has truly fulfilled its purpose because it is indeed both an opinion and a profession. Only by living, working in the community, controlling the freedom that is at that moment and all those actions that are still being carried out if we mention the psycho-social treatments that are going to go along with it, which will only contribute, are actually saying that this system really needs to be raised, invested in it, and I believe that it will truly meet this purpose. Why the facility itself? I am speaking for the reason that it is a huge responsibility for the probationary officers themselves to assess where a person can best perform the work for the general good because it is not quite whatever institution, in which the system comes to work for the sake of working for the general good, because sometimes good things happen, sometimes the person can do exactly the way that a person should and should not have more control and that work is done in order, but sometimes it happens and it should be kept in mind, that actually responsible persons in institutions where they are working, also take part of the risk, take on also one major responsibility, play a really important role in this whole trial system, and I think that in this sense it may be necessary to keep an account or invest in this part exactly in the way of additional education, additional instruction and the very increasing supervision by the probationary officers themselves, which, of course, will only go with the strengthening of the whole system. Here's so much in this individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81192	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the esteemed secretary of state, let's welcome the students of Slunj High who are upstairs at our gallery. And now I'm going to ask respecting Secretary of State Juru Martinovic to say a few words to the end. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81193	Mr. Vice President... MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Here I am very pleased that we have had such an affirmative approach to this law which, in my opinion, seems to me that you have so rated it, a professional, quality law which has been the product of developing this probation service for the past 10 years and the work of many people in the Ministry of Justice and before us but also parts of the government. I am pleased by the reason that we obviously hit and offered you a balanced law that will certainly, I am convinced but I believe that you believe, too, to contribute to the promotion of the probationary service as an alternative to the execution of criminal sanctions and the model that at the end of the execution and severe prison sentences has its social role to somehow bring the perpetrators back to society, to the workplace, to the family as better people than they were when they decided to break social norms in committing crimes. I will not spend all this time at my disposal, but I do need the respect of this Parliament, according to my colleagues and colleagues who have discussed it, to say only in relation to what my colleague, Jeckov, asked in some way, and this is the segment where we spoke and put inter-resor bodies in the law, which is what we, as legislators are really offering to you. So, we imagine these resolute bodies, of course they'll be in our ministry, it'll be responsible for forming and managing that resolution body. It is imagined that with all the stakeholders of the probational treatment of these perpetrators, which are courts, it is prisons, centres for social work, it is the police, therefore, and of course our probation service, to harmonize this action in a way that is as little a problem in the application of this law as possible. Why does it matter? We all know that there are shortcomings in this inter-resorship cooperation, this is an important segment, and we will certainly ask that the best people in these committees are given to us from all these resolutions in order to point out in a timely manner the weaknesses in the application of this law or in order to fix it, I like to say harmonized, that it is indeed on to achieve those penal goals that we have outlined through this law. So one more thing, dear fellow Milenic said it was necessary to extend the jurisdiction of the probation service in relation to this, we also do so by this law. It's a new story, you all know that in this area that criminal law is kind of being observed almost exclusively through the repressive prism, this part of criminal law, so the execution of criminal sanctions and the probation service are something that eases that thing from the history we've been going through. So extending jurisdiction to the probation services means in the final stage of treating the perpetrators of the crime, to their homes, in front of their houses to work with them, as much as possible bringing in probationary officers who are slightly lighter forms of a repressive apparatus, than to be done by the police, which is usually done by these jobs that are now being taken over by the probation service. And we're in that position, we're working on it, and any spreads we're going to co-create together. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81194	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81195	Proposed law on probation, first reading, P.Z. No. 312, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion ‘1. Proposal for a law on probation and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Please vote. I find that most of the 111 votes for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81196	We move to the next point, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, first reading, P.Z. No. 304. The applicant shall be the MOST of Independent Lists based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed representative Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81197	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. On 27 February this year, the Club of the Independent Lists sent a legislative proposal to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. This bill of law is a kind of reaction to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism brought by this Croatian Parliament in October of last year. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, this is a good opportunity to recall the debate on the law that we who belong to the parliamentary opposition have criticised for insufficient transparency. The main debate in October last year focused on a small but very important segment of the law. And it's a register of real owners, legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. Although we from the opposition, as well as the interested public, have warned of the fact that the data in the register was in fact inaccessible, the majority opinion adopted by one of the EU's most restrictive laws in this area eventually prevailed. What exactly is the current law? The criterion of the problem is found in Articles 34 and 35 which regulates the assumptions of the availability of data from the register of real owners. In particular, these articles allow the availability of data on real owners, competent authorities, primarily law enforcement authorities and authorities dealing with the prevention of money laundering. On the other hand, when it comes to potential data users and interested persons, the data from the register is practically impossible to gain. In short, in order for a person outside the circle of the competent state authorities to obtain data from the register, two relevant legal assumptions must be fulfilled and cumulatively. First, the data relating to the real owner of the legal entity for which the application is submitted are solely related to the impact on the legal position of the applicant in court, administrative or other in law-founded proceedings. And secondly, the data is required in connection with money laundering, connected... criminal acts and terrorist financing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only the fulfilment of the above-mentioned legal assumptions under the current law is it considered that a person has a legitimate legal interest in the availability of data from the register of real owners. That legislative solution is justified, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its opinion on our proposal for a law in the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on preventing the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. However, if you look at the aforementioned directives, you can notice significant normative differences between this EU act and our current law. First of all, as regards the availability of data to interested users, the Directive concepts legitimate interest. This concept is nowhere in the directive, in any way defined and the practice has shown that Member States interpret it differently when transposing the directive to their legislation. Some, such as the UK and the Netherlands, accepted the concept of a publicly available register for all, while others set off through the closure of the register. It is here to be fair and to find out that the Republic of Croatia has, unfortunately, gone this other way and disabled the data from the register for all those who do not belong to a tight circle of competent state authorities. In order for the matter to be even more absurd, it took Croatia more than two years to transpose this directive into our legal order, and while we discussed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering in October 2017, a political agreement has already been reached in EU legislators on the important content of the new fifth directive which will regulate this legal matter in a completely different way. What did the EU realize in the meantime, and our government still finds it difficult to accept? Well, it seems that even those three European institutions that we often view as slow bureaucracy are still light years ahead of the Croatian government. In fact, just as we are arguing again about the opening of the register of real owners, the European legislator will do so regardless of the view of our government that this should not be done. What an absurd colleague and fellow MPs. But let us return to the bill of law that is before us and which we wish to present to you. It's about minor but essential changes. We in the Most Law have proposed that Croatia should at least be a leading member of the EU. With this bill, we would like to sideline Croatia with countries that are leading the EU's fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, and which stand out for transparency and openness. We sent this proposal to a public consultation via the Croatian Parliament's website on January half of this year, and the public debate was completed on February 20th. In the context of a public debate, the Independent Lists Club as the holder of the legislative initiative also asked the Commissioner for Information. We have attached her opinion to the bill so that everyone can review it, and we have accepted its recommendations as a competent body that monitors, studies and adequately suggests improvements and improvements in the legislative framework. What is the main objective of our proposal? The main objective is to make public publication of the register of real owners of legal persons in the Republic of Croatia on the website of the FINA which is already in charge of the establishment and keeping of the register under current law. The proposal implies that some of the data, of course not all, respecting the need to protect personal data are available to everyone in machine-readable form and without compensation. In this regard, we have been guided by what will inevitably be governed by future EU legal acts. Here we think of a circle of personal data that must be available as well as the deadline in which these data are available. As for the request for availability of data on real owners in machine-readable form, we consider that this is a reasonable request. Only in this way can interested researchers take on larger quantities of data and process them through different applications in order to draw valid and timely conclusions on the research which is subject to their interest. Finally, we find it unnecessary to specifically explain the proposal that the data from the register be made available to users without compensation. Your data must be collected and processed anyway, so that their public announcement is of no or negligible additional cost. Moreover, we believe that public publication of the register will contribute to reducing the costs of processing individual requests of potential data users. Although we believe that all these demands sound too high, many will wonder why. The expected effects of public publication of the register of real owners will initially be reflected in the availability of relevant information to research journalists dealing with organised crime and related money laundering. In this respect, the relevant law makes it impossible to investigate data on the real owners of legal persons because now investigative journalists can prove their legitimate legal interest with success only if they have the property of a party in criminal or other proceedings. With investigative journalists, this bill also respects the desire of a part of the civil sector of NGOs who are willing to deal with these adverse phenomena by society. However, perhaps the most important positive impact of public publication of the register will be shown in the area of so-called ‘registration’. corporate transparency. In other words, the greatest benefit from the opening of the register will certainly be those persons and companies who daily enter different business transactions and arrangements without knowing who they are actually dealing with. By opening a register for the public, many entrepreneurs would have access to this important information that could certainly be useful for them in the process of making business decisions. As experience shows us legal relations related to ownership and influence in legal persons in the modern world, they can very easily hide and make themselves untransparent. Yet, at the end of the story, we all know that behind every legal person there is a particular natural person who can and should be identified by name and last name. Often, these individuals who have a crucial impact on the decisions of some legal persons are hidden behind a long and intertwined chain of ownership relations, and are rarely hidden behind any representation or custodian account contracts. The criminals of the 21st century and terrorists are using all kinds of tricks to cover their tracks, and the register of real legal entities is a tool that helps us to detect their illegal activities in a timely manner and reduce them. In this context, we would also like to comment on the opinion given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this draft law at its meeting on 22 March 2018. First of all, the government stressed that the October law last year is fully in line with the EU acquis. We would not like to challenge this claim to ask the representatives of the Government to explain to us what reasons they were taking when, of all the possible models of the 2015 reception of the directive, they adopted just the ones that seem to be the most restrictive. Why were they not guided by other models that show and that the register and the data in it can be made public to some extent? In particular, we would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its opinion on this bill, states: following the adoption of the Directive on Amendments and Supplements to Directive 2015/849, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing will be referred to in the legislative procedure. On the basis of that Directive, the law will be amended and complemented in terms of strengthening the transparency of data kept in the register, with due regard to the fundamental right to the protection of personal data and the business and application of the principle of proportionality, new categories of taxpayers will be introduced, the threshold for the identification of the party in respect of anonymous cards will be reduced, more detailing the exchange of confidential information and cooperation between bodies in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It follows that the fundamental purpose of this law is not to regulate this area in a transparent and fair way for the citizens of this country, but to formally comply with the EU legal system. In other words, it is important to formally fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards the EU, and it is not important if we do so in a way that benefits the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to comment on the protection of personal data which is not constantly mentioned in this context. When we talk about permanent owners, we are essentially talking about big fish, those who have money, and these opportunities to pay for a number of consultants, legal advisers, audit houses, lawyers. I assume you all know what we're talking about from the Agrokor affair and what kind of fees we're talking about. The purpose of these professionals is in this case that they can conceal someone's real property from legal or other initiatives. Those who follow a little more closely will know that the world has developed an entire industry related to the so-called. custody accounts, nominated owners and nominated directors, and tax avoidance and the hiding of wealth by which tax havens. At the same time, our country is concerned about the protection of personal data, such individuals, and there is no problem at all when the court register publishes names, names of owners and directors of companies with limited liability, their OIBs, addresses of dwellings and related legal entities, detailed financial reports, as they have earned or lost in a given year. Why is there no problem here? Because, as a rule, it is a small, ordinary citizen whose income is generally not a successful hiding option, their companies do not have parent societies in other countries, nor have they been deposited in some foreign trusts. The owners of these small companies do not deserve the benefits of a foreign legal system that favors investors, as they have set us out publicly to... In the last days of the bargaining, for example in the settlement of the Prophet of Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, by justifying its proposal for a law, the Government calls for the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency which has established that the data in the register are not public data. We agree, they're not public when the law is hermetically closed. That is why, on the other hand, the same information from some other citizens in the court register is public data. The government also calls for the opinion of the EU Legal Service and Council of December 2016. It saddens us that the government is calling for arguments from this opinion, which, as recent events show, are not respected by the European legislator either. The opinion to which the legal department is being called is, in fact, the time has passed, as we will tell you at the end of this presentation. But we don't particularly want to criticize the government. Its March opinion, meanwhile, was decided by the European Parliament, on this matter. Therefore, as we are already exchanging EU bodies' quotes, it cited a resolution with the European Parliament's view of 19 April this year. So the resolution was adopted a few days ago, it was adopted on a proposal for a directive intended to amend the existing directive of 2015. I quote: public access to real property information, civil society, including press or civil society associations, enables better control of information and contributes to maintaining trust in the integrity of business transactions and financial system. It can contribute to combating the abuse of corporate and other legal entities and legal arrangements for money laundering or terrorist financing and helping to investigate and influence reputation, since anyone who could participate in transactions is familiar with the identity of real owners. It also facilitates the timely and effective availability of information to financial institutions, as well as bodies, including bodies from third countries, which are involved in the fight against such offences. Access to this information would also help in investigations into money laundering, related to predicate criminal acts and terrorist financing. Furthermore, in their national law, Member States should define legitimate interest both as a general concept and as a criterion for access to real-owned information. Those definitions should not limit the concept of legitimate interest in cases where administrative or judicial proceedings are under way, that is all. In line with the European Parliament's resolution, the European Parliament voted in its first reading on the revision of the 2015 Directive. This Directive shall be adopted by common decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU. The European Parliament therefore voted in its first reading on the amendment of the directive on 19 April and adopted some key changes in Articles 30 and 31 of that Directive. The Article 30, which is extremely important, provides for a new legal regime for Member States to provide real ownership information on all cases to be available not only to competent authorities and financial intelligence units without any restrictions such as today, but to the general public at the same time. It is a newspaper that does not contain the current 2015 directive. The whole public, therefore, would be allowed access to that category of persons to at least information on the name, month and year of birth, country of residence and nationality of the real owner and the nature and extent of the ownership stake it holds. Member States may, by means of their law, provide for access to additional information enabling the identification of the real owner and additional information on the date of birth or contact information in accordance with the data protection rules. What we are talking about is therefore a new legal arrangement that will likely come into force in the EU very soon this year. So a new directive will be adopted, the amendments to the existing Directive from 2015 will be amended. In this regard, we know that a trilateral agreement has been reached between the Commission, which is the applicant for amending the directives, the EU Council, so the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament. In this respect, the amendment to the directive almost came to an end in the EU legislative process because Parliament has already voted on the amendment of the directive on the basis of a trilateral agreement, it has familiarised you with the content of a key provision in Article 31 which will make the Register of Real Owners available to the entire public with certain relevant information that can identify the real owners. This Directive will most likely enter into force during this year. This means that EU Member States will have an additional deadline, it is usual for 18 months to transpose the directive into their legal order. So the Republic of Croatia will be obliged to transfer its contents to its legal order for the next year and a half after the amendments and the addition of the directive, so to amend the existing law that we are talking about today. But why wait two years? At this point, colleagues and colleagues, we are fully aware that the European Directive will change, that this will happen this year, that at this point it is absolutely certain that the register of real owners will be made available to the entire public in all EU Member States. Today it is available in some Member States that have not been restrictive like the Republic of Croatia. When we know that, when it is absolutely irrefutable, it also proves the vote in the European Parliament on 19 April this year, so a week ago. For this reason, to delay the transfer of what is indisputable today, to install in our law the right of the entire public of the civil sector, the media, to have access to the entire register of public owners, of course, with those data that the European Directive also considers to be available to the entire public. What we are proposing and what we have proposed, so when we put this law in the process that these data be made available to the entire public now, by making these amendments and by supplementing the laws that we propose and not waiting for the next two years for these data to be available. So what I propose is that today we actually implement a directive that will be adopted during this year by the European Parliament and the Council of the EU. There's no reason to continue to be restrictive, to make this process difficult because that's what we're sending the wrong message. Instead of what we are proposing to law now, to start with the process of transparency that we unfortunately failed to do last year in October when we passed this law, to send a good message now, a positive message, especially given all the experience that we have with the transparency of data, to enable these data to the whole public, to do so immediately and not to wait for the next two years. In our own opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself, and even on committees, we find that we will have to do so. It is indisputable that an EU directive will be amended in this respect. It is only a matter of a few months before the adoption of that directive and the next period of one and a half years to transpose that directive into our legal order. But the key question is why wait the next two years when we know we're going to have to do it. It is the only question that is actually relevant today in front of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. We believe that there is no reason or need or justification in this regard waiting for the next two years for the Register of Real Owners to be available to the entire public. In this regard, we hope that this legitimate interest will be made available to the entire public in the Croatian Parliament and that MPs will vote in favour of our bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81198	Thank you very much. Your presentation caused a series of replicas, almost your entire club reported for replicas, but before we go to it, I, let me welcome all the students of XIII High School from Zagreb who are up at our gallery. The replica was first reported by the esteemed Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81199	Dear Vice President, instead of complimenting us that the entire MOST club is present here in the assembly, you practically...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81200	.../Intruder Reiner: I did not offend you, though...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81201	So why the problem is that the MOST Club gave a series of replicas to the show. We want to discuss this important law. There is no colleague in the assembly, and why is it a problem for us to give replicas and to potentiate what is important in this Law?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81202	I didn't even say it was a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81203	So it's about an important amendment to the law. We ask that the Register of Real Company Owners be made publicly available to the public. This is very important because of the fight against corruption. Let's remember all corruption affairs in the Republic of Croatia. This morning, colleagues on the Committee on Finance talked about how we should build institutions. Dear Vice President, the institutions in the Republic of Croatia have just been building investigative journalists who have been investigating corruption and in this sense this proposal is going to open up to researchers, to fight corruption together, to insist on transparency, which will strengthen institutions in this fight itself. And it's in the interests of our citizens and the interests of the people. This is a very important topic, and it's unfortunate that there is no colleague here in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81204	I guess he'll say, there were no questions, but here's a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81205	Comrade Grmoy, it's a good thing you brought up investigative journalism. I think that all public representatives should be reminded that a major affair over "Panama papers" which has been exposed by many hidden owners, including very prominent persons in many countries, has been revealed by the publication of these data in a series of media newspapers and therefore, the newspapers that have been published in Europe and America, and this fact has shown the strength and impact of investigative journalism that these data are being made public. These data have been verified and what is very interesting is that they have been synchronised in several different newspapers, so that not only one newspaper would be exposed to the potential dangers of the lawsuit, and that is exactly the case that has contributed to the amendment of the directive that we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81206	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, you were talking about registering the real owners of the company. I would refer to one segment that you did not highlight in the debate, which I think is very important, which is transparency and in fact our Electoral Law. We can have a theoretical company that donated to a political party, and we don't know who the real owner of that company is, and behind that donation is some interest. So, this law also brings some kind of transparency and our choices and maybe it's one of the reasons why it's not being passed now, maybe early elections, so some donations would be clouded in some way because after two years we're going to have to bring in a register of real company owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81208	A reply to the replica of the respected representative of the Podolonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81209	You are absolutely right and it is precisely one of the key intentions and the adoption of this Act because through data that will be available, and they are very important, so let's repeat, the data that will be available are the name and name of the real owner, state of residence or residence, month and years of birth, citizenship and nature and the scope of real ownership. On the basis of these data, it is indeed possible to identify the real owner who can now be hidden behind individual accounts, trust accounts, etc. And we find that extremely important to these purposes as well as to which you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81210	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81211	Thank you very much. The government gave a negative opinion because it wants to remain a closed register of real owners. They want, as our colleague, former Ljubo Cesic-Rojs, said, "Who is the jamior – the jamio". They want to remain closed to the Register, they want the Directives to be applied and voted on by all MPs in parliament by the HDZ and who voted in parliament on this law, now do not want to be here in Croatia. What are they afraid of? Transparency? What are they afraid of? That people know who the owner is, that the people know who the pit was? It's the only reason, Professor Podolnjak, that they're guarding the Registrar because it's the registrar who stole most of what the people have done for years in robbery, privatisation, war profit. It's the only interest because it's unreasonable that now it's an empty assembly, when we talk about a key problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is corruption. And a little change would solve one part of the opportunity for the public to see transparently... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81212	Dear Representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81213	Dear colleague Bulj, I am sorry that no one in the name of the Government has actually shown themselves about our legal proposal. On the board there were such indications but now here in the Croatian Parliament, the government has avoided saying to the public why it rejects a proposal that is fully aware that it has already been accepted in the European Parliament, that it has been accepted at the level of the EU Council's agreement, so where the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia comes and that it is actually something that we will have to move very quickly into our legal order. And I'm always going back to a key question that the government doesn't really want to answer, and that's why there's no representative here. Why wait two more years to publish to the entire public the Register of Real Owners?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81214	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81215	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Podolnjak, one of the key issues that should also be raised is the question of real ownership, the one that determines who has the majority and our most important national company INA. If we look at three custody accounts, among the top 10 shareholders, then I see that these custody accounts determine what the current MOL is actually doing, which is that it's consolidatedly manages INA's business and that it can manage business results, from being completely negative to being completely positive. Thus, it enables them to do so. And secondly, what is even more important, behind these custody accounts, we don't know who should pay the income tax on dividends, who these people are, they've given hidden people who should be taxed in Croatia. I suspect that it is not only related to the Hungarian interest but is linked to tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81216	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81217	Coliga Panenić, you have highlighted only one example but you have painted an example which is quite certain to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia very important, it is a large company, I will not tell the national company, because it is already in large part not our Croatian national company but it is extremely important and everything you have stated is true. We don't really know, i.e. The public doesn't know who's hiding as the real owner behind certain custody accounts and not just one company you mentioned, but all the others. Today, in many cases, you have unfortunately custody accounts for which the public does not know who is in reality and who are the real owners. And when this law is passed and it will be passed sooner or later, only what we want sooner, it is known and this information will be public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81218	The next replica is the respected representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, actually, let me say why this law was necessary and suggest it, so I'm asking for a comment. Once again, in fact, in the debate when the law was passed, it was primarily shown that it was not in some way well regulated by the Register of Real Owners, it turned out that we had one of the most restrictive laws in the EU regarding this area. But those who follow a little more closely will know that the world has developed an entire industry related to the so-called. custody accounts, nominal owners, nominal directors and tax avoidance and the hiding of wealth by whatever tax havens, we know that. The entire industry is also used for illegally acquired assets and terrorist financing. And we know that, but although we do not have that much experience with terrorism, we are in the laundering of illegally acquired incomes and hiding assets probably among the most advanced in the world. I remind you that even the amendments to the Constitution haven't solved this problem, and the rest of us have already said, the rest is what Royce said, "Who is the pit, the pit," and that's why we needed to propose a law like this, but say, what do you think the effect will have, and what will happen if this law is not passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81220	Thank you. Dear Representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81221	Dear colleagues, if this law is not passed now, unfortunately, we will have continued non-transparency and our public will not know who our real owners are because there will be no register available. So, unfortunately, for the next few years, we may be deprived of knowing who the real owners of the company are. Unfortunately, we know that when the Government of the Republic of Croatia transposes EU directives into our legal order, it is usually the last moment that awaits us. As soon as they threaten some sanctions and financial penalties for missing deadlines, we can expect that if the law we are proposing is not passed, that the Government will use the maximum weighting space and that the register will be inaccessible 2 and maybe a little more than 2 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81222	And the last replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81223	Your Honor, Vice President. Dude, here's just two things. You mention the constant possibility of accessing the register itself. Those to which this law applies and which should prevent money laundering and terrorist financing have unlimited access, the others must have a certain legitimate reason. And secondly, as a lawyer, is it wise to now implement and amend one thing in law under a new directive that you have some knowledge or wait for, to change 10 things that a new directive will bring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81224	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81225	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, the 2015 directive contains a very large number of changes. So when you look at it, you will see that it changes a large number of articles of that directive that are of course important. But it was particularly important to us, at least this part of the public transparency of the register of real owners, so we intervened in this one small segment, but extremely important, because we missed it last year. For the rest of the part of the directive to be amended, we can do so later when the directive comes into force, but our belief is that the transparency of the register is the priority that needs to be regulated urgently, rather than waiting two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81226	Thank you very much. We can see that my colleague Bulj has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81227	Article 187 of the general debate on the law has been violated. Is it not here that we see who gave the opinion of this law, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Only we are confirmed by the chairman that for the first time there are no representatives of the government who have given a negative opinion on this law for which the HDZ European Parliamentarians voted and the ruling majority. That's exactly how important this law is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81228	I therefore estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured because the Rules of Procedure does not require that he be present as a representative of the Government, unless he is a Proposer. It must be a proposing here and it is, you are here, but it should be an opinion, you've all got an opinion, but you shouldn't be present as a representative of the government. If you think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, I ask you, in that sense, to address the Constitution for, to the Constitutional Committee of the Rules of Procedure and the political system, so that the Committee definitely gives its position and opinion because I see that it appeared some time ago on one occasion, one seems to me 2, 3 weeks ago such a doubt with much more passion than now, fortunately now the passion was not so much, but if you think it has such doubts, I ask you to refer the committee to the question so that the committee definitely gives its position so that we know exactly what the practice is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81229	And it would be, if I could just give it a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81230	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81231	Just for a little while. At least from the government in relation to this body
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81232	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Bulj, you cannot comment on this.]] No, I don't. Then I open the debate, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will speak the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81233	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is what my colleague Poddolnjak said, the MOST Club referred 27th of February of this year to the legislative procedure of the Amendment Law and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and this proposal is a response to the law adopted in October 2017 when we also proposed amendments to make the Register of Real Owners of Companies publicly available to strengthen the fight against corruption, in order to strengthen the fight for transparency, which is also the main feature of the Most as a political option which has given up its position twice, precisely because it has fought corruption and has demanded greater transparency. This morning, colleagues on the Committee on Finance talked about how we should strengthen the institutions, that's something we all agree with, but again, as I said in the replica, institutions in the Republic were built and strengthened by perhaps the biggest public-life affairs, which happened precisely thanks to investigative journalism. If we were to make the Register of Real Company Owners available to the general public, make available investigative journalists, it would certainly expose many of the affairs, which would ultimately force institutions in the Republic of Croatia to fight corruption more strongly. So, we're looking for a publication of a register on the Internet, data must be published in a machine-readable form so that they can be easily downloaded and processed and made available without charge, which means free of charge. What needs to be said here, the Commissioner for Information has given an opinion on this proposal, this opinion is positive, she has even made certain proposals that we have implemented in this bill. So the Commissioner for Information gave a positive opinion, made some suggestions on how to improve the law, we respected and implemented it. What is the purpose of this proposal? It is clear to all of us that behind every company, trust or other legal person is a natural person, a man who has a crucial influence and benefits from the action of that legal person. It is often a chain and a set of legal persons, it is so long and complicated that it is impossible to identify the name and last name of people who have a crucial influence and make decisions. These are the real owners who often hide behind some kind of counsel and lawyer. In such a situation, it is quite possible that behind a company that does business, for example. With the state and with it, he has an entry contract to hide behind the company the interests of a certain politician. So we're talking about a conflict of interest. Such experiences are also available in other countries, so you can imagine how much of this we have managed to cover up in Croatia. Right now, this register of ours is closed to both the public and the press. Legal provisions on the availability of data from the register are so rigidly written that they prevent even journalists from coming to them. In this context, experience shows us that access to this data to journalists is something that can make it impossible for them to discover the biggest money laundering, organised crime and terrorism financing or what is much more important because this is not what these institutions are dealing with by money laundering and terrorist financing means conflict of interest and that is what we insist on. We insist on transparency in order to combat conflict of interest, and ultimately corruption itself. Let's be honest, and that's what I repeat again, all the big affairs in our country or elsewhere are being opened and solved only if the press discovers them and if the pressure is created by the public, only then. This publicly available register is a wine situation for all, journalists have access and do their job, police in journalists have an additional resource for detecting criminal offences, society has the benefit especially of preventing these dangerous phenomena. In this sense, it should be recalled that police minister Mr Bozinovic recently pointed out that the MUP and other state bodies will act preventively in the area of curbing organised crime. What our proposal is in the spirit of this statement by Minister Bozinovic, let the government, as a first step in this prevention, open this register of real owners of legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. Our arguments are so strong that, according to the current EU directive, many countries have made this register publicly available, and I would say the most developed countries of the EU, from Scandinavian countries, Great Britain, the Netherlands and our neighbouring Slovenia is much, much more open than we, or what our Government has done. And what Professor Podolnjak said, imagine we have a situation that a week ago or something more in the European Parliament in the first reading has passed a new directive that goes exactly in this direction to open this register of real owners of companies. And what we're going to wait for when the whole of Europe is headed in that direction we're going to wait for those directives to be adopted and then we're going to implement it for two years. Instead of being leaders in the fight against corruption in insisting on transparency in the EU. When Prime Minister Plenkovic is squeezed out of Brussels about certain things that are completely irrelevant to Croatian society, then he reacts very quickly, but when it is necessary to insist on fighting corruption against transparency when this fight is to be started in Croatia, and we know that this is the cancer of the Croatian society's early Croatian society that the cancer of the most numerous political group in the Croatian parliament of HDZ is then all hand brakes pulled. At the time, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not want to be the EU leader. It is something that is inexplicable to us that we cannot understand or understand if we take into account the fact that HDZ and its leadership are looking exclusively at the partial interests of their members and their members who are under corruption charges or who may happen after the publication of this register of real owners of companies to come under such charges, that they do not want to go in that direction. If that is the reason, it shows that the interests of the citizens and the interests of this society, the interests of the state are not the first priority of those who lead this country, we will always be the first. We have shown and will show further this and future legislative initiatives that we will be the leaders of this fight against corruption of insistence on transparency in Croatian society. We have just been created in response to this corruption that has affected all segments of Croatian society from local levels where we have formed to this national level at which we have engaged and in this struggle we will not stop. And to me, I have to admit the unpleasantness of this morning on the Committee on Finance how thin and hollow the arguments of the ruling because no argument against this bill was made, it was said that colleague Peric was talking and almost crying, it was touching how our property cards of our politicians were opened, so that it wasn't always the best solution, that we should be careful what we publicly publish. Why should we be careful? Well, that's exactly the argument, if politicians are also open property cards, then let them be an open register of real company owners, that's exactly what we're looking at. You have actually argued in favour of this bill and no argument is under way except that this legislative process in the EU needs to go into some kind of overall change, we keep hearing it. That's what we're listening to about the executive law, and we need to go to full changes, and people don't have time to wait. The fight against corruption does not suffer delays, just as the fight for our blocked and completed citizens does not suffer delays. We don't have to wait for you to remember to implement it or have someone from Brussels order you to do it. We don't have time. The Croatian people are sick of corruption, they're tired of corrupt politicians, they're sick of corrupt businessmen and entrepreneurs, but that doesn't mean that they're all like that, and we need to encourage healthy entrepreneurship, encourage healthy businessmen, but those like some of whom we've talked about here in the Croatian Parliament for months where you held the ladder, and now you're giving them up, who were appointed to you by the Ministers of State, assistants in ministries with such aces. And again I tell you you will not stop us, your arguments are thin, and the Croatian people will not and will no longer want to suffer any further delays and some kind of waiting for some other time to fight corruption, to insist on transparency, to solve all problems of Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81234	Thank you. We don't have a replica. We're going to another debate, it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81235	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are here today discussing the Bill's proposal in first reading, amending and supplementing the law, and now please listen to me very carefully, especially the representatives of the Most, about preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. I'm not going to say that you're a little lost in this law, but some findings have strayed. Why? Because in this debate, you estimated that on the Finance Committee it was thin and hollow. But now the people are listening, the citizens are listening, so let them judge for themselves if what's being said in front of the HDZ Club is thin and hollow. They had a chance to hear you. So the law is about preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. You have repeatedly repeated here that with this proposal to amend and supplement the law you want to discover affairs, you have repeatedly repeated the word of an affair, affairs, politicians, investigative journalists. And I think it's very useful to discover in our society affairs, but the aim of this law is to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. And that's what serious institutions do. I now want to read to you what arguments have been made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to pass the law, i.e. to adopt the directive in this form. And I remind you that the existing solution that we adopted in October 2017 is fully and fully in line with the EU Directive. So the government, among other opinions, was guided by the opinion of the legal service, the EU Council 1565/16, which tells us that the link between public access to real property information and the effective enforcement of the fight against money laundering has not been established. Perhaps this approach to this registry could increase the detection of some affairs, but our goal in this law is to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. This opinion also states that it is necessary to exclude the general public from caring for the tasks of law enforcement, given the subject matter and subject matter of this law and that the law should be implemented by the competent authorities. It is the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State's Attorney's Office, the Security Intelligence Agency, etc. I remind myself that, and that constantly, I am concerned about ways of talking in this House, I am concerned about ways and how in the media we are discussing some issues that we have a trio of power and that the Parliament and the legislative authority cannot be both the court and the executive authority and everything else. I was worried, there is no representative of the opposition in front of the SDP club now, which is the one time I warned him about it, he said it was a political court. We've left political courts in an earlier system. And what's going through, what the serious institutions say is that it's jeopardizing human rights is that the media space is turning into a courtroom and that you're saying things that you can't, you don't have to have proof, you mention them, you're telling them, and it has its advantages, but we have to forget that we're going to make judgments here based on some kind of speech, arguments that aren't backed up by evidence. I would also like to say that you have brought out here that the most developed countries of the EU have chosen solutions that are available to everyone, the most developed and you have listed Slovenia. But also the Scandinavian countries of the Netherlands. But you could also count it, I will, of course, it's my duty to argue the opposite, Germany and France, you could name Austria and Ireland, which have brought exactly this kind of solution as we have. If we are to be reasoned, we must also indicate those who have made the opposite solutions and those who have made the same solutions. All you're saying is that these are the most developed countries, you're saying that France and Germany are not one of the most developed countries and that they don't care about preventing terrorism in their own countries? I don't think that makes sense. So you have also made an assessment that the new directive has been discussed, i.e. that the directive is already being passed on to this topic at EU level, where this register will be freed for Europe to move forward, so why don't we get ahead? I remind you that the debate on this directive at EU level with this topic has emerged because of a new problem, and these are currency crypts and digital currencies. If it had been in the first reading, to bring now the conclusion that Europe is already going to open the register, that is one small part and I must note that it is being manipulated by the public. So we're all aware now of the problem that has arisen around digital currencies and the fact is that it's the main topic of changing this directive, which will have a 18-month vaccio legion, whether we're going to trade some parts and evaluate that we need to get ahead in this sense and sell the public story here that it's all changing now, and we don't know, we don't want to be the first to bring the title that we first made those changes. So it's past the first reading. So you wouldn't agree. Also, the HDZ Club considers that, and we emphasized that on the Committee on Finance, it would be good to open up all the public, give all the information to everyone, but then we should also consider that all individuals in the public want all the best. And I don't think we can do that and that's why we have this attitude and you have the right to the opposite, let the public evaluate. But don't tell me here at the pay phone that our debates are hollow, if he comes after you, and then I'll bring up my debates and my arguments. I mean, you can, but here's my chance to get the public to think about these arguments that we said. I must conclude that on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will be against this proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81236	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, 5 minutes of exposure to the respected colleague of Grmo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81237	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Everything I said, I stand behind it. The argumentation was very thin. It was said about the property cards of parliamentary representatives, and exactly what was presented as an argument for, or against, this Law should then be made public, by a colleague, Lalovec on that Committee, that it is precisely that argument that this Registry should be made publicly available when there are already publicly available and property cards of certain politicians. Then your colleague from the party, Milosevic, this is how we could say that he agreed and said that what we are proposing is good, that maybe we should go in this direction, but that he is afraid of these countries that do not belong to a circle of liberal democracy, which could then be misused in some way. Then I replicated to him that these countries also have some other methods of getting certain data if they want to use them in such a way, but that is no reason why we are not going to the opening of this Register and not going to that fight against corruption, insisting on transparency. When you talk about me mentioning Slovenia, I mentioned Slovenia as a neighbouring country, and I mentioned Scandinavian countries, Great Britain and the Netherlands as countries that have already made it publicly available under this directive, and that at this moment there is a legislative process in the European Parliament that you cannot deny, and that is a fact, going in the direction that this Registry is publicly available, which means that then and those countries that you are calling on are also agreed to go in this direction. I ask you a question, both you and your colleagues in the ruling structure, why did the Croatian Government decide on this most restrictive approach? What's the reason for that? And when we talk about this law being focused on preventing and laundering money and fighting terrorism, it doesn't mean that if we open up this Registrar within this law, it won't help in other cases. That it will not help to fight conflicts of interest, against possible corruption. Well, no law means, if something is his primary function, it doesn't necessarily mean that the law has no repercussion in certain other areas. Well, I guess your colleagues understand that. So, what I said, that stands. I've been very unhappy with the argument of you from the ruling party. After all, if you were present, and you were present on the Committee, an external member of the Committee, a well-known Croatian economist has no reason to mention the man here right now, said that he was not very clear on why we were going in this direction and asked if there were any states that went to regulate this much more freely, which was obvious from his debate that this step was in the right direction and no one said that what we were proposing was not good, but that it should be changed overall, always the same formulation. And I think there's no reason, if the EU and all of these countries you've called for were going in that direction, and if one of the most advanced countries in Europe had that kind of regulation, why would we wait for such a directive, why wouldn't the Republic of Croatia, not be the first, as you said, because some countries, and I've listed them, have done so, why wouldn't the Republic of Croatia be among those who have done it in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81238	Thank you. We have a replica, or three replicas. The first one is a respected colleague of Roscic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81239	Thank you. I'm glad that you have the opportunity to supplement my debate because when you started, unlike your colleagues, you leave an impression, at least to me, and maybe to the citizens who have such an impression that this Law was made to make something available to politicians, and now you've said here and yourself that through the property card these data are available and that this applies to the businessmen. I would also call you when we talk about "they EU", we are all in the EU. There are none of them in the EU, and Croatia is, I think, Croatia is an EU member, so this finding was on the Committee, and I think it would be good for us to kind of integrate and feel like part of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81240	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81241	My colleague, you or I don't know what the problem is. So, I think I made myself clear. You're trying to get out of here now. So I was talking about a colleague and colleagues on the Committee talking about the property cards of politicians, and not me, and that they said that as an argument, it might not in all cases have proved to be the best and questioned whether it was good for certain information to be publicly available to everyone. I believe there should also be property cards of politicians, but also this register of real company owners. That's not my argument, that's your argument that I think is very thin and that it doesn't stand. So someone can't argue that it's not good that there's an insight into the political property cards to see if they've achieved some kind of non-coherent financial benefit that they couldn't achieve through their regular salaries and receipts. You think it's not good, and I think it's good to have property cards published.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81242	Thank you. Thanks, buddy. Let's move on. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81243	Thank you, Mr. President. When you spoke, a colleague of the Grmoi as an alternative possibility to install or accept this bill so that some other property affairs might be revealed. However, we must bear in mind that the ownership structure is not, in principle, the manager of companies. That's one thing. The second thing, which is what my colleague Podolnjak said to me, on behalf of the promoter, and I read it, in the public consultation in the draft, no comment, proposal or opinion was received. Obviously, this law did not come across the public interest, it was to be expected, since you mentioned investigative journalism that would be at least on that side, so I think maybe it's simple or not enough. Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81244	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81245	Dear colleague, we have referred this law to a public debate. We have received an opinion and it is very important to highlight the information commissioners who very positively expressed on this proposal, she has given even certain amendments, so to speak of what we have implemented in this legislative proposal. And what is now manifested through this debate, something has tried to avoid the debate of colleagues Dragica Roscic, in the end it turns out that these arguments are as thin as I claimed. These arguments that political property cards should not be made public. I am saddened that this attitude has a young colleague and does not feel that transparency is necessary both in Croatian politics and in Croatian society in general. So that's what's sad, that those standards that are already set so that we don't welcome those standards and not insist on even greater standards in which certain European countries go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81246	Dear colleague Kirin, please, it's your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81247	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed colleague of the Grmoy. Were you able to sublime all your thoughts into one law, the Law on the Origin of the Property Survey?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81248	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81249	Comrade Kirin, here you are part of the ruling majority, I need first to agree with my colleagues in the procedure, not only should I write it, but first I need to agree with my colleagues in the opposition to give me signatures. Well, let the ruling majority propose such a law, make sure you have my hand and I know for sure who because of that law won't be in trouble and who might be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81250	We've come to an end with replicas. We are now going to the debate of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the esteemed colleagues of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81251	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, as we heard today, we should discuss the additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism that we brought in in the 10th month of last year and that we really discussed a lot. However, today on behalf of the promoter who proposes to amend only one article, we listen to these bombistic statements that will happen if this law is not passed, we have a rigid law, we have a law that prohibits access to information, nothing will happen. We do not have a law that prohibits access to information and all competent state authorities have full insight into the register of real owners. In addition, not only the competent state authorities but all those who prove legitimate legal interest. Now we're saying that we didn't translate rightly here that this was about legitimate interest, and we translated it as a legitimate legal interest. It is doubtless that ownership and the right to access this information must be made available to those who are interested in it and who need it. First of all, when we talked here, we talked about money laundering and terrorist financing. So it's a law that applies to that segment. And we have the right to access that information. We talked about how our most rigid law is and most often we're comparing ourselves with Germany, Austria, France, the Czech Republic, those developed countries. Besides ours being exactly the same as in Germany, France is far more restrictive. So it's not that our Rigid as it has been mentioned several times. The fact is that there are countries in Europe that allow full insight and have an open register of real owners for all. We're not against this amendment in principle, we're not against the openness of the register for everyone. But as we've heard, this is about changing an article. Our law is otherwise in line with the 4th Directive and all guidelines have been introduced and transposed into our law in October 2017. It is also true that the EU has discussed amending the laws, i.e. amending this Directive, and that the 5th Directive will be adopted, above all, because of the important changes in the market and the greater security of money laundering, we have talked about the crypto currency, there are many more changes that will surely need to be applied. And we often love each other and call for legal certainty and how frequent amendments to the law are not good. And that's where we agree and we fully support it. Since the existence of the Republic of Croatia, this has been the third amendment to the law that we passed in October 2017 and we believe that nothing important will happen in the coming months when this 5th Directive will be adopted and that we see what needs to be changed and what needs to be harmonised with so that we can pass this new law or amendments to that Law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. That is the only reason we cannot give support to this law, that is, this amendment. And otherwise our party was always for transparency, it was always for supporting good things no matter who they came from. I'm saying, I'm just a little bothered by this performance if you don't support it right now, it's going to be the end of the world, but it won't, but we have a certain approach, and we have in that register of real owners the real possibility of seeing all those interested, all those who need to worry about security and our legal system and these things, so our attitude is exactly the one that I've expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81252	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81253	Thank you very much. Here we are talking about the proposal of the Most Independent Lists, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. One very small change, after the government closed this register and left it only to the institutions responsible for dealing with these cases, but the fact is that the public opening of the register of real owners contributes to transparency, contributes to the public to see who are the real owners of companies in the Republic of Croatia, and also prevents money laundering and terrorist financing. In the first reading, as stated in the European Parliament, this proposal and also our colleagues, our majority colleagues who voted in favour of this law in the first reading, and here we see both HDZ partners and HDZ that they will not support this law, and how important this law is one of the first precedents, for the first time that there are no representatives of the Government who have given a negative opinion on this law. He's saying how unserious it is. When we talk about this problem of opening the Register of all owners, owners of companies, then we can mention how many times were mentioned, custody accounts in INA, banks, so 25 years, 20 years... War profit, we don't have the strength to pass this law to see publicly and transparently who the owners of the company are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No matter how many times the custody accounts are mentioned in INA, custody accounts in numerous banks, in Zagrebačka banka. This is what we contribute to transparency and that the public knows, not that researchers, journalists are left with information that must be very difficult to bring. And not only that, and this directive that is now existing, it allows the number of members to be opened, but our government has chosen a model to shut down owners, not to know who are the owners of companies and these all accounts that can be folded under all of this, of course under the carpet. Of course, once said here by a colleague, Cesic Royce, our ex-boyfriend, who's been bailing out. And the government is really holding on to it. By closing these accounts we do not contribute to the public and preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, we do not prevent corruption, we allow further corruption. For what? Because we don't know who owns the company. For what? If other countries are based on the current directives, and not those that you have accepted in the first reading, your colleagues, colleagues from HDZ who have accepted in the Europarliament, and you will now be against this. So what's that argument? There's no argument. Or there will be some different light in Brussels than here in our Parliament, we could talk about it by people who are experienced, such as Mr Davor Ivo Stier, which is why the Europeans supported this in the first reading of this proposal, that we have an open register of company owners, and here his club and they are against. He's got experience, maybe in Brussels there's a different climate, different lights, maybe it's a different attitude, maybe Tusk's acting differently on it, Junker, or who's acting on it. Well, the Croatian Parliament has the right and the obligation to vote on this. A colleague from the HNS says that this is the end of the world that we are talking, so it is not the end of the world, but the fact that you are declaring liberal ideas, pro-European policies, and Parliament is European, and I am saying that we are asking Croatia to reconsider membership in the EU alone for this, and you who are liberal, who view the EU as sacred and everything they say and draw, you are against it. So give me one reason why you're against it. One more thing I would say is that this law that we have is increasing transparency, reducing possible corruption and crime, and of course this is a positive law, it will bring you the EU soon, I know that you are not interested in this, I see that you are feeling disappointed, I am disappointed that none of the representatives of the government have in this law, I have just pointed out this because they gave a negative opinion on this bill, while at the same time our prime minister, who was a European, would also vote in Parliament as well as those who vote for this proposal, which opens the Register of Business Owners in the interest of fighting corruption, in the interest of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. What's the double standard for? Why one criterion in Brussels, why the other criterion in the Croatian Parliament? We didn't get that explanation. A little while ago, a colleague from HDZ had an exhibition on behalf of the club, we didn't get an explanation why HDZ in Brussels voted in favour, and here it's against? in Zagreb, in the Croatian Parliament. You spoke pro-Europeanly and you open up, and here, as you're oriented here, it's still true that the rule that he put in the hole is true. Vote for this so it won't be a rule anymore. Let's let the public see who owns the companies who are trustees, who took the companies 20 years after privatisation we can't see who owns the companies. So don't vote in Brussels either, tell me we don't want this brought to parliament at EU level. And here I would like someone to give me a replica like Mr Davor Ivo Stier, who was a euro-parliamentary, a respected euro-parliamentary who will reason for HDZ to vote in the euro-parliament for this amendment to the law. to open up a register of real company owners, and here you'll be against it. We don't have an answer, just silence, mixing. I don't see why you don't tell the public what you're voting for in Brussels and here against? Who are you protecting here? Who are you protecting? Here's what we are proposing: one basic question: why will you vote in Brussels by gentlemen of your Europarliamentarians for, and you in the HDZ House vote against. Here I am sorry that he is not Prime Minister Plenkovic in front of the government to ask him how he would vote in the europarliament on this amendment since his colleagues in the HDZ euro-parliament voted in favour in the first reading. So you have no arguments, but I expect you to make a fair decision in the vote and that after 20 years of privatization people know the Croatian people who own the companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81254	Let's go to the replicas. The first is the honorable colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81255	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here today, the debate on this law is amazingly simple how much the thesis that HDZ has done everything is, that it has brought the law into line with the directive. But let's remember what happened here when the law was voted on. There was an amendment on the outside, I think it was a GONG that wanted to amend the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism in the direction of monitoring European trends, colleagues and colleagues. This is what you are very struggling to implement the EU directive to monitor European trends, and the change would be in the direction of removing custody accounts and revealing who their owner is. However, you have repeatedly rejected the amendment that day if more clubs have proposed it. Therefore, do not place information here to fight for transparency and that everything is harmonised because when it suits you, you call for Europe, and when you do not like it, then pretend to be humps and put your head in the sand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81256	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81257	My colleague Sincic, if he had been in the law when the last laws were amended, the Most Club had given the amendment, it was not accepted, and then we made this small legal amendment that is small, and it is crucial to be publicly published by the company owner's register where it is coming from. And you were talking about it, a number of MPs, you were talking about when it was the presidential campaign on custody accounts. And this little change would essentially get us a chance at public insight, but they don't want to. But it is true that in the European Parliament, HDZ representatives voted in favour of this amendment, and here they will be against it. And I can't get an answer why they're in Brussels for, and here they are against. The only thing I'm asking is, here we have Mr. Davor Ivo Stier's Europarliamentary, I'm sorry there's no one here in front of the government, you see how important it is that no one has to go before the government, give us an answer, which is why they voted in the europarliament, and here against.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81258	Thank you. Now it's up to the esteemed colleague Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81259	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Bull. Today, we are discussing a bill on the prevention of money laundering. What you're saying is do you really think that this ruling team of HDZ and HNS that they would agree to reveal the owners or the real names that appear in now-protected custody accounts? This would be the discovery of one of the most desirable truths since the establishment of the Croatian state. Do you really think that they are able to turn against those individuals of interest who have many members of their parties? You said well that they fight for European rules and norms only when something suits them, and when it doesn't suit them, they hide it. Therefore, one of the first things the party will do Let's change Croatia when it comes to power in one way or another will be to reveal custody accounts and who is behind them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81260	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81261	Thank you very much. A colleague, Lovrinovic, that if only for ZABA's custody accounts, INA and other privatisation companies were publicly published then we would know what we are on and a little change, this is a small amendment to the law that Most gave the amendment when the law was passed. It does not matter if it is going to work here to change Croatia, Most, The Living Wall, HDZ, but it is interesting and it should be repeated that in Brussels in the European Parliament HDZ voted in favour of this amendment for the opening of the register of real owners, and here it will be against and the government has voted against. And the bigger European for the EU who stands for the euro and the introduction of everything is Andrej Plenkovic. Who is more interested in Brussels than he is? No one. And worse he voted yes. And that's why I'm interested in why I'm asking Mr. Europarliamentary Ivo Stier to give this answer, which is why they were worse for, and here against. They don't give an answer. Probably because they were paying them...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81262	Thank you. We have another replica, and after that, we'll go to the vote, dear colleague of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81263	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Bull. We have presented a lot of arguments in favour of this proposal or amendments to the law, and we have also given an amendment because we have requested public publication of the register of real owners of companies. It is true everything you say, seven days ago in the European Parliament, a new directive is supported that is currently predicting the opening of that register and what is HDZ doing? Refusing this proposal, the government rejects our proposal. And what's best is no one from the government showed up, they don't have that much courage to come here and say why they reject this proposal and this proposal is a big step in fighting corruption, insisting on transparency, and besides, we are like MOST and we are created in response to corruption in all segments of Croatian society, and regardless of such non-Ignorant Croatian governments, we will continue to fight corruption and we won't stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81264	Replication response, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81265	That is right, one unique response, 7 days ago in the European Parliament by HDZ representatives, the MEPs voted for the Register of Company Owners, to be made publicly available. And here HDZ MPs will be against and the prime minister at the head of which the Government represents all European values and has not dared anyone, for the first time this is a precedent, to be here in front of the government because the government has every legal proposal to give its opinion. I'm simply saying, what is Brussels for and in Zagreb against? They're up for opening a company owner's register and here they're against it. That's all they have to say and give an answer. Is this about the custody accounts, is it because of the owner? So 20 years of privatisation they don't have the courage to vote for this law to cross that statement by Ljube Cessic Royce will be 'whom, jamio.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81266	Thank you. Now we will continue with the agenda we have stopped with, only one information, after the vote you will get the agenda for next week, the order of work. For the next week, we will begin on Wednesday with a joint discussion on the final draft of the Law amending the Law on Patents, the Mark Act, the Law amending the Act on Industrial Design, the Law amending the Law on the Tags of geographical origin and the designations of origin of products and services and the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products. Thank you very much. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81268	Dear President, right after the vote on the bill sent by my colleague Podolnjak, I got up, came to you. In the agenda we have, we have it to write, or so it is stated, that it will vote on his bill. We had a club this morning, of course, that as colleagues we'll vote for what our colleague referred to in the procedure, here in the general crowd and crowd we haven't heard at all what you're reading, to read the conclusion of the government that is of course the opposite working bodies that are contrary to what my colleague Podolnjak suggested, and I asked you if you could repeat the vote. [[The incursion president: No, no, I haven't read.]] You did not allow us to do so even though I came politely and asked it, I think that for the sake of correctness it was okay, given that in the agenda that we have officially received, it does not say that we will vote on the completion of the working bodies, but that we will vote on its proposal, that you have allowed the vote again on this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81269	I thank you for your intervention but it has been done in accordance with the usual practice, if you consider that something was contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the usual practice, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Before we continue the debate, therefore, the possibility is now that the club's views are being delivered, is anyone coming forward for a free debate? If not, then we will continue to discuss the esteemed colleague of the Bunjec, please, it is an individual debate. Let the MPs come out, then you go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81270	Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81271	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia is therefore an unmistakably robbed country from which dozens have been exported, including hundreds of billions of kunas and the public has justifiably wondered where the money ended. Most of that money, of course, ended up in foreign accounts, was taken out of Croatia, but one small part of that money, smaller and essentially still huge, is found in custody accounts in the Republic of Croatia. So the custody account is actually a euphemism to hide money, it's basically a secret account that citizens, journalists and other stakeholders are unable to reach in a way to find out who its owner is. And someone owns it, someone has that money. I'm guessing it's not Mr. Podolnjak and neither is Mr. Brkic. Maybe he is, but it's still hard to believe. Some people became enormously rich, became millionaires, became billionaires while on the other side of the state there are no 25 million kunas to pay for the diet of hungry children in schools, while the state allegedly has no money to raise pensions by more than 59 liras per year of work, while the state allegedly has no money to address some basic existential needs such as child's allowance and minimum wage. And two decades after the famous conversion and privatisation in Croatia, there is almost no company with no custody accounts at the very top of the ownership structure. You can't believe it, but the truth is that as many as one quarter of all shares in Croatia are in these custody accounts or the calculated value of about 70 to 80 billion kunas. For example, in leading companies coffee is Croatian Telekom, such as INA, coffee is Zagrebačka banka, such as Podravka, Petrochemija or Franck one good part of shareholders is unknown to the public. And then we have cases to say that we have government officials, that we have politicians who have no ownership in the registered property cards. We have, say, governor of the CNB who has failed to save on a function performed by even a single kuna while his deputy has 38 million kuna property at the same time. We have, say, ministers who have a bigger loan war than their salary, we have mayors who have a bigger loan war than their salary, but it does not prevent them from driving the most expensive Audie, having the most expensive watches, having a whole series of real estate and enjoying a luxury that is not suitable for Croatian reality. How is that possible? Here's what I'm going to tell you right now is one important thing for the public, given that MPs aren't interested in it, but I'm usually not talking to them anymore. The salary of the parliamentary representative, paid by the minister however high compared to the average Croatian salary, rudely large of that salary cannot be bought new Audi A6, you can't buy villa at sea, you can't buy Briony suits, you can't buy Rolexi and you can't abstain from various friends and friends. It's simply not possible because whatever, I repeat once again, there's this pay of a parliamentary representative she's still less than the salary of a baker in Switzerland. And you know what standard you can have with that pay. So when you see politicians, when you see people acting as state authorities living in the luxury that I've just stated, then you can be 100% sure that it's the ones who own the custody accounts and that it's the ones who stole, that it's you. I'm sure some former prime ministers, some former ministers, and the current ones have money in those accounts so that people get dizzy if they knew exactly what kind of numbers it was. because even a small child in Croatia already knows that birds on the border are chirping about getting jobs in Croatia such as waste management, the energy sector and the like take commissions not in millions of kunas but in millions of euros, even at the county or city level, let alone at national level. We saw in 2015 that the Tax Administration found that only 14 citizens of the Republic of Croatia had 1,7 billion kuna in foreign accounts and that these 14 citizens only earned 51 million kuna from interest, so they had to pay taxes, which allowed their principal to be assessed. Data appeared in the media about a number of people, we have, say, the data that appeared for former CEO of PBZ Boža Prak that he had in his account, a private account of 700 million kuna, and that this same PPR was former HDZ Finance Minister, that he had just recapitalised the Industrial Bank with 1.2 billion euros in order to become the chairman of the PBZ Administration after he had resigned from the position of the finance minister and that the most interesting thing he later privatised the same company was four times less money than he took from taxpayers. Apparently, Mr. Prka, this is what the media says, the hidden owner of numerous companies in Croatia, among other things, the Medici who bought over, watch out now, the former director of the Tax Administration. It's just one example, there's as many examples as you want. Enough to remember former Prime Minister Sanader, we have cases of the current finance minister and numerous others, Vice President Dalic. And I'd just like to ask here, what are they doing all the time, "DORH" doing all the time, what are all the other institutions that were supposed to investigate this unmistakable and terrifying crime? They do nothing for the simple reason that they depend on the authorities or are directly connected to them. Therefore, I would like to say that this law proposed today in the Assembly is good, but that it represents only one step towards a final solution to converted and other crime to the Republic of Croatia. It is important to discover who are the owners of the custody accounts, but it is also important to prohibit the export of money from the Republic of Croatia so long as it is not determined who committed the criminal acts and after establishing who committed them and who illegally enriched them, to take all that property and return it back to the budget. And I'm sure that if only it were done and nothing else was done, that there would already be enough space not only for all hungry children to eat in schools, but for all children, regardless of what they're going through, socially less successful or more, and there would also be money to practically raise their pensions by at least 20% in one day. Therefore, stop delaying the adoption of this Law, and all of you who have stolen, I know that you are rightly afraid, but be sure that the truth will come out, so if you haven't stopped by now, then it's time for you to wonder if now is the time to finally stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81272	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Before we move to replicas, I welcome students and students, and teachers and teachers from Slunj High School. Welcome. Give it up! We're continuing with the replica. Dear colleague of the Goddess Macar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81273	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Bunjac, right at the beginning to say that I and my club have no problems with opening the Register of Real Owners for all interested. But what I'm replicating you for is that, you've mentioned this series of specific names and concrete examples. Did you report this information to the competent institutions because you obviously have a very, very large amount of information that maybe even the competent institutions don't have, even though they have the ability to see the current Law in the Register of Real Owners of Commercial Companies. This isn't a provocation right now. This is a really specific question that I would ask you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81274	I thank my esteemed colleague, Goddess Macar. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81275	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, it is not up to the legislative authority to submit applications to the DORH. We had a case of an ex-President of the Parliament who did it, but it turned out to be essentially not his basic function. But I can promise you that on the day that the Living Wall will be able to decide that, within 24 hours of that thing, it will come clean. All applications will not only be filed, but we will not stop until the verdicts are passed. I do not prejudge that anyone is guilty, but I know that someone is and I know that this country is essentially rich, and that the citizens in it are poor only because the elite robbed it. So thank you for asking, but you don't have to worry about the Living Wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81276	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Final word on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81277	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There is not much of us, but the fact that fellow MPs is this very important law which is essentially, in the first reading and accepted this amendment legally about in the European Parliament seven days ago. So the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing sent... The independent list on February 27th, but last year, when the law was amended, we gave an amendment that was not accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am speaking here, I am sorry to say immediately on behalf of the club once again, that none of the representatives of the Government who give an opinion to the law because if, the fact is that HDZ and Europarliamentaries voted in the first reading in the EU on the law which, on the prevention of money laundering, the financing of terrorism, where they are also asking for it to be, published publicly, the Register of Real Owners of Companies. But to prevent, of course, terrorism and the fight against corruption. However, it is not clear why the HDZ does not want to vote on this small legislative amendment here, but most importantly, why? Because in Croatia, there's always custody accounts, dudes. Why don't we go public with this Registrar? Because in the EU, Croatia has also taken the system according to the current directive, as we are calling for the EU, it has taken the most closed example. We're the most incarcerated. Other countries, regardless of this existing directive, have opened the Register of Real Owners, but precisely because of the fight against corruption and terrorist financing. Care bills, that's the question of all the questions. You're saying that, just before he said, he mentioned... He's a friend of Bunjac's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, the whole public's talking about it. Care accounts of INA, custodian accounts of ZABA, Zagreb banks, Privredne banka, teleoperators, telecommunications. Are there even custody accounts or don't exist? I know and I'm convinced that there are because such a rich state, if there were no custody accounts and there wasn't a robbery in privatisation and war profit, we'd be the richest state. Believe me, there would not be in vain blood spilled in the Homeland War, and this is how we leave part of the legal initiative the EU accepts, the European Parliament, we do not want to accept it. And what's even sadder is the message of what doesn't have a government representative here, this whole debate of none of the many assistants, secretaries, ministers, a whole series of people working around the ministries, no one dared here, even sat before the vote, there on the side, no one wanted to defend this. No one's here. Once again, this was voted seven days ago, a new directive, in the European Parliament. Representatives from Croatia voted in favour, among them MPs of the majority in parliament, and here they oppose. So what's the reason I don't know why we wouldn't open the register in Europe when there's such a trend in all the world of all the owners of the company, the real owners of the company because of the fight against corruption and terrorism? Why not in Croatia? Why are we calling for Brussels, our prime minister? It calls for Brussels, Tusk, Juncker, European values and here, in this case, a key case, a small legislative amendment, is essentially the whole story of this small legislative amendment. So the fight against corruption, against the custody accounts mentioned earlier, is all essentially in the hands of several criminals, I can say so, which are except, here is being protected essentially by that statement and we have to break with it the statement that Ljubo Cesic Royce said at the time, "Whom he pitted, he pitted." So why should only journalists investigate who owns certain accounts, custody accounts, who owns, who owns it? How'd INA get her hands on it, how was telecommunications? I don't see any reason, and I'm really sorry that we're here in a very small number, and because of the future of these generations, these boys and girls who came from Slunj, and all of Croatia, we have a duty to do this. And because of the blood of the spilled boys, these are the 4th high school, right? Guys like this have been in '91 these past few years. Take the rifle and go to war and leave our lives and we're in charge of these future generations to open this up. I'm sorry that there are only four of us here with Vice President Five, but it's a very important topic, I'm sorry that no one participated in this debate from the government, no matter what the representatives of the ministry were, they were sitting both in the judiciary and finance, sitting there a few meters from us, hidden in the benches. I am sorry, and I expect ahead of the MOST club and the least important thing is that this is the MOST proposal, the parliamentary deputies that will support this proposal and that those values that this government is calling for with Andrej Plenkovic, to European values, if the Europarliamentaries from his party could vote in Brussels and that he would probably vote for, not but 100%, I see no reason to finally know who the real owners of the companies in the Republic of Croatia are. And that's all because of the fight against terrorism, not that it all comes down to journalists that that's the only way we get to that data. And that's why Bunjac mentioned it in the media a little while ago, it says, you can read it now on the Internet. And to get rid of all that speculation, it's, it's not, it's somebody, because a rich country like this can't go to someone, it's falling apart all of a sudden and everything we've created, so it's gonna be the best of this law, that's it. This legislative change where the real owners of the company, the register, would be published by public real owners in the company in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, it is a tendency in the EU. I, who also call on us here to call on the EU, need to review what we have received so far in the EU, where we have paid to pay between 3.5 billion and 4 billion euros in 2014 and we have returned only 3% so far. So I'm asking a legitimate question that will immediately declare me a Eurosceptic, this, that, but it's a legitimate question, why, here I'm standing in a position, not holding to the value of the EU and not following their legal regulations and legal gains? While the same representatives, the same club in Brussels votes for this, and here in Croatia against. I think that's smart enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81278	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Bulju for this final word. We have two replicas, a respected colleague of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81279	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, I am pleased that you too are in favour of respecting the European values that we are actually respecting because we have applied regulation 4 when we had on the adoption of this law. I'm sure we'll apply everything else. However, what I wanted to refer to or replicate to you. You're talking about investigative journalism, yes, but I'm still telling you that we have access to this information through our bodies. And as far as investigative journalism is concerned, we have the right research, we have the quasi research. According to some of this information we're getting from the media, you're probably surprised that everyone knows everything else about you and you don't really know anything. A fellow Bunjac should be surprised who gave him so many credits when it comes to how much he has an obligation and he knows it's not like that. I've been asking myself the same question for some time myself, so do others really know more about me than I do?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81280	I thank my colleagues at least for the replica. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81281	You have now come down to Mr. Bunjc, I would not at the personal level of this law, you have said that I respect the EU's gains, I have said that in this case I am the one who seeks, insists that we reconsider our EU membership. What we have received, 2/3 of Croatia, while at the same time you who are calling for EU gains in the European Parliament, your old coalition partner votes for this, to be publicly announced by the Register of company owners, the real owners, and here it is against. And no one has any government representatives. But this is a serious law, a legal initiative. I don't understand how you interpret it. My position is clear around the EU and it is clear that we are simply those who, more, more than hundreds of times more, are paying the EU, but this is important, it is important that here journalists and quasi journalists as you call them... If the register opens, you'll see everything. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81282	I thank my esteemed colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81283	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj. Let's say we have a case of a finance minister who in 2010 gets a loan with a war of 8700 kunas with interest rates 4%, let's try and take such a loan with that interest, now that interest is much more favourable. The bank will tell you you have to have three times the salary, so you'd have to have a salary greater than 26,000 kuna to get that interest. The same minister two years ago raised a 70,000-euro loan with a war of 3500 kuna, which means he pays a monthly war of 12,000 kuna. How and who authorized it if his salary was only 17? So he's got a loan war 70% of his salary. Based on which guarantee is this loan granted? Here's what I'd like to do. Maybe I'll ask a representative's question and find out things like that. I'm guessing that money's somewhere hidden away from living with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81284	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81285	You asked a legitimate question, but of course I can't do it... the fact is that neither professional nor competent for it, but the fact is that other citizens can't raise credit in that way and in that amount be burdened. It's a question that you can legitimately ask when the minister is here and the institutions. But the fact is I'd go back to this law. It's time to publish a public register of real owners of companies in the Republic of Croatia, that's the time, to finally end up with that story that he was bailing on, he was bailing on. I believe that this is a legitimate right and that it is legal and according to EU directives, a number of members have opened the register according to the current EU directives. I do not see any reason why the ruling majority of the HDZ would not support it in the first reading seven days ago in the European Parliament, and here it is against. I don't see why... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81286	I thank my esteemed colleague Bulj for his reply. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. I thank Mr. Bull. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. We continue to work on Wednesday 2nd May 2018 with agenda points as previously read. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session adjourned at 13.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-27-0.u81287	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, First Reading, P.Z. The number 304 is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 74 for and 34 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the Parliamentary Labour Authorities. Let's move on, dear colleague Marin Schibola as an independent representative, please.
