ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66816	Good morning, everyone. Today we will unite, please just a little quiet, a little quiet, please. Today we will combine 2 reports, if you agree, if no one is against it, these are the reports of the regulations that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted under the legal authority, are you against Mr. Glasovic, are you against what I read? And I will see you well later, means: - Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the legal authority - Report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority So one is in the plural and one is in the singler, that is the whole story. I'll read everything, so you'll understand. Therefore, the first Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 3. The Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Regulations. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The second report, in addition to these reports on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, calls for the same provisions, but this debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, and the political system. So it's about different provisions, you know what they are, because you've got all the necessary materials. Do you mind if we unify these discussions? There isn't. There were arms up, please. First Mr. Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66817	I'm looking for a 10 minute break on the school system in Croatia School system, education system. [[In what way?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66818	Educational system. Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66819	We're looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge, we'd like to discuss the alarming state of waste management.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66820	Thank you. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66821	Good afternoon, we're looking for a break on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66822	Thank you very much. Three breaks, who? Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute recess on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66824	We have four breaks, I assume you're prepared, yes. ... You want 10 minutes off? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want 10 minutes off? Will you or won't you? Mr. Glasnović won't, the others will. As Mr. Glasnović speaks, let the rest rest, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66825	Dear colleagues, colleagues, he would say morning something to this education system, school reform, etc. in Croatia. Here are every organization, a fundamental organization from the military to business entities, depending on three factors. It's training, equipment and filling. What about schooling in Croatia? Are those elements in place? Do we have trained me to tell teachers who made this in the field this school reform? 10 years ago, a national and pedagogical standard was adopted in Croatia and clear objectives and performance coefficients. What's happened since then? We're still tapping in place, I can't understand it because it could all work competitively. If you can't agree on some classes in school, others go further, e.g. Math, biology, chemistry, that's science. And social science, if it can't be arranged, we can do improvisation until it's over. I don't know if we've ever heard a report in Parliament on the implementation of those standards I've talked about, I don't remember since I've been here for a few years, that we've heard that report on this issue and that we've set clear deadlines for the implementation of these plans on the ground. We have a lot of spikes but the spike doesn't cook rice, we tap in place and we're years behind, we tap and we run 10 laps behind European countries like Germany, etc. But we're saying that we need to bring the education system into line with the labour market, how's that? Austria, Germany they have, it's not the perfect system and there in our crafts are extinct, there you have a man working as an apprentice, paid when trained, eventually comes directly employed in the labour market. You have a synergy between business entities in Germany, Austria, the government and the education system, it doesn't exist here. That means that in recent years we've produced, this year, I'm thinking with November, 11 economists and maybe two mining engineers. That's unimaginable. If you want to destroy one country, we see what an economy is, Croatia has a secret weapon, these are Croatian economists, hire two of them as advisers, you will get the Venezuela script in 3 months as it looks to me. In fact, when you look at it, it's totally unsustainable that system that it now has and we don't even have the technical conditions to coordinate that system and we have to start working right now or we're going to be late in the next cycle. Raising and education are not the same thing, here, I came recently, in fact they were 2 classes of school recently, coming every day teachers and their students, high school in the Parliament and those young people living in... The world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She was recently a sociologist with them, there's a sociologist there, I asked, I ask the class, I ask her, have you ever heard of the Frankfurt school of sociology? No one raises their hand, she looks at me like that... It's a wristwatch. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And she's gonna train those kids, that's scary, here. When we talk about living some basic things in life, these kids don't know how to make omelette, change the oil on the car, they don't know anything about financial literacy, open a bank account, and we're totally insulating society. When we talk about crisis thinking, they don't know anything, before being a classic high school, you had a bigger view of the world. There they don't know anything about classics, their Marx is one of those Marx brothers, not of course those at the university philosophical, those heads there who know it already, they've studied both Marx and Lenin well, but the younger heads don't care too much, they get all the information from Wikipedia. Where's the critical thinking? Speaking of ethics, did you have a course in business ethics in Croatia that was standardised? I don't know. Because in the former state, and we see it today, in the droslovia, I would say, the former state, a culture of cheating was introduced. So you have teachers who sell tests to students, it's unimaginable and we think we are where we are, when we have such teachers and such moral standards. We are a Catholic country and we have 6,000 priests and 30,000 fortune tellers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66826	Thank you very much, Mr. Glasnovic, we are the country of all citizens of this country, so I underline that because it is written in the Constitution and the violation of the Rules of Procedure was sought by Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He was injured as usual in Article 238, Mr. Glasnović, for some reason in his morning breaks, has the need to insult our guests in the Croatian Parliament, to say that they do not know anything about teachers or children who come here, has the need to insult educational institutions in this country, here I do not know, I mean, it is an injury to Article 238, because others are unfortunately not led to such things but as long as Mr. Glasnović does so Anyway, I must warn you, sir. [[Intruder Radin: If not foreseen, let voters judge.]] [[Invadica Glasnovic: What I said was not true, let Glavasevic say down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66828	You can't talk, you didn't pick up anything Mr. Glasnović, you can't talk. The second break was requested by Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66829	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, although they are in front of Croatia, it is known very serious obligations in waste management, and the times are really getting smaller, the dynamics at the state level then and at city levels are devastatingly bad. The last public call for funding in recycling systems was while I was still a minister, so a year ago, in the meantime it was just a call for waste management education. Where are the sorters and the composts? While I was a minister, it was a plan to make a public call by summer 2017. Where are the separate collection systems, reuse centers? Without these contents we learn already once, it is impossible to meet the 50% recycling goal never, let alone by 2020. Where is the emergency weighing equipment so that you can first know who and where and how long to delay, and then start penalizing delays. Have you forgotten what Mrs... told us two weeks ago from the European Commission? Didn't she say that it was necessary to speed up investment in recycling in building a system that respects hierarchy, not like so far in the dominant waste treatment of large centres? Look up to Krk and Prelog, she said. That is why the fact that there are still no public calls for these content is simply shocking, the state is therefore taking on a very large responsibility for not meeting the objectives, and the money is available, and we are not spending it. What are the cities doing? They bring forward plans that are more like the missed 2005 strategy than the 2017 plan. In Split, they have no defined location for the sortery and compost, only they know about the location of Lečevica and Karepovac. It is obvious that those responsible in the city count that the centre in Lečevica will one day solve all the problems of waste, so instead of in Karepovac they will drive 45km further to Lečevica. The fact that there can't and can't be recycling there can't be and that punishments are quite certain to expect obviously don't care. In Zagreb, a crumb may be better, among all kinds of plants is even planned but not as a priority. Inconclusive, non-conclusive, not transparent in RESnik in the mega-regular waste management centre is listed everything, however, it continues to be collated with the thermal treatment of waste, although by 2020 50% of the recycled material should be collected, which automatically means that there will be no burning material. And although it is known that the European Commission is considering prohibiting the burning of recycling waste by 2030. Every day we witness green islands filled with plastic and paper. Citizens are persistently separating and delaying, and the system is still neglected and dysfunctional. Why is it not urgent to establish a separate collection system that has a head and tail, as well as to sorters and composts, vessels or bags a fair system of collection or individualisation of responsibilities? That's how citizens become co-workers. The collection is announced, and valuable raw materials are left in the rain, on the road. And in Brezovica, strange contents are planned, yet not systematically, not transparently without valid communication with citizens. Megacompost without balance, description, no clear location, and possible thermal processing is listed. In the sub-neighbour, a mass recycling of construction waste in the immediate vicinity of houses. A project to resuscitate a glider that can't even be seen, a solution that would last indefinitely, yet not the same transparency. Citizens protest at all three locations with full rights because they really don't trust each other. Why are citizens from Split and Zagreb, and they are not the only cities, hostages of the same irresponsible and incompetent policies, which keep this important activity to the detriment of all, and only perhaps to the benefit of individuals? When will we finally welcome a full and consistent ecologically-based approach to waste management, the only one able to create raw materials for the circular economy as an important part of the sustainable development of our society, the only one capable of keeping the value of raw materials at the expense of the covered part, if not exceeding the costs of separate collection? And so not only avoid the gatherings but create potential for the whole new economic branch of the circular economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66830	Thank you, too. With us students and students from the 13th high school in Zagreb with their teachers, we welcome them. Thank you for being with us. [[Applause]] Now, on behalf of the SDP, Mr. Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66831	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. We asked for a break to talk about a problem that we are used to in the Republic of Croatia, but I think that all representatives in the Croatian Parliament should warn all public affairs about certain things that are not right in our society, certain things that are why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia least trust the judiciary, which is why we need judicial reform the most. And it's about managing public money, it's about managing public funds and solving citizens' problems. As counterpart Dobrovic said earlier, the problems that citizens feel daily are accumulated especially in the city of Zagreb. Here he mentioned the waste, the solutions are almost nothing, the mayor ignores the citizens. The problems are also in traffic, the problems are also in school, school and kindergarten in the city of Zagreb, and there is nothing to be said about it. On the other hand, the information in the media we read every day in the city of Zagreb is tied to the judiciary. After two and a few years, the mayor of the city of Zagreb at the court in Zagreb received confirmation of the power of attorney means the indictment seven out of ten counts. There is everything, land swaps, waste management, abuse of positions in the use of the city's resources, suspicious donations in the presidential campaign. For example, in the presidential campaign, Mr. Mayor collected out of deadlines millions and millions of kunas from which some donated people, individuals who were unemployed, but beware, donated 90,000 kuna for his campaign. And that is what unfortunately little is said in the Republic of Croatia and as if it had become normal, as if taken for granted that the mayor of Zagreb did not do his job transparently, he abused on the charge of DORH his job, doing things that are not allowed on behalf of the citizens of the city of Zagreb, which, by the way, charge the biggest tax in the Republic of Croatia at 18%. We're warning it from here. It would be good to join us in this and HDZ says it is unacceptable and because of its tails from the past and Fimi Media and various other scandals that were then tied up, to say no, so the city of Zagreb should not be managed and we should not support such a mayor in the City Assembly. Unfortunately, the HDZ supports the mayor who received a powerful indictment in the Zagreb court of 7 to 10 points, supports him in the Assembly and shares power in the city of Zagreb with him. The president of Zagreb's HDZ, Mr. Mikulic, is the closest associate of Milan Bandic, and that is what we must warn of. Milan Bandic, on the other hand, very faithfully returns the service to HDZ, holds through his club representatives in the Croatian Parliament, holding most of Andrej Plenkovic at the state level. And this is the symbiosis that the HDZ colleagues should reject for public space hygiene, for the sake of political integrity, for the sake of the citizens of the city of Zagreb. That this is not the end it shows the ad Milan Bandic made this week in a newspaper that says that he, or 365 of his Party of Labour and Solidarity, stands out 44 and a half million kuna a year for Zagreb children. Scholarships for 50, so all of those in the first person are written about the party as if they single it out, or in the first person of the plural, as if they single it out, as if it were their money. Please, we have to resist it decisively and say that no one in Croatia can behave with public money anymore. It is not Milan Bandic's money, it is the money of the citizens of the city of Zagreb, which unfortunately on the charge of DORH is justifiably suspected of being abused in the past years of his term and I am sorry that Andrija Mikulić goes hand in hand with a man who has such charges at the Zagreb court, which HDZ supports such a policy but has those in Zagreb who will oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66832	We've got Mr. Bačić in front of the HDZ Representatives Club now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this morning's presentation of our colleagues from the club MOST and from the SDP club, there is no impression that we have a syncope opposition in Croatia. Namely, counterpart Dobrovic was concerned with what he said about the catastrophic state of waste management in Croatia, as if he himself forgot that he was the Minister of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, where we then warned him as coalition partners that a partial change in access to waste management would pull a certain period of adaptation to this new Waste Management Plan. I personally and very well said to my colleague Dobrovic at the time, and I now argue that, at the time, the ministry was messing with the adoption of this Waste Management Plan, we lost significant time on it, and I was saying that the approach to waste management in which we change our approach in a way that we introduce units of local self-government and sorting centres and recycling yards at least for some units of local self-government that will represent changes in spatial-planning documentation, that this will entail changes in spatial plans, that this will require new local permits, etc. etc. So that all together will slowly result in a delay in implementing the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to waste management in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, I do not want to protect anyone in particular, who is not working on an accelerated system to fulfil all those obligations that we have made in the part of the closure of the dump, the creation of new centres, the construction of new regional centres, the construction of recycling courtyards, the realization of sortery, etc. etc. But I warned you, you know that very well. That's what I was saying about this speaker that this fact, that we're changing, and knowing the system of spatial planning in the Republic of Croatia, which means for local self-government units, which means for individual units of regional self-government, could result in a prolonging of what you suggested as a minister at the time. So it would be good if when we speak criticism, then we clearly do not forget that this delay is partly ours, that is, in this particular case when colleague Dobrović led that portfolio and I was aware that this would cause certain problems. I wouldn't want to replicate or attach anything to my colleagues, nor am I a lawyer, nor do I want to be a lawyer for the mayor of Zagreb. But since it is referring to Mr Bandic's behaviour and approach, the mayor of Zagreb has, on several occasions, combed on HDZ, and I would also like to mention that during the time you were together, certain disputes and these disputes have also resulted in judgments that significantly burden the SDP in financial terms and represent a problem in your funding for the reasons of your intransparency in campaigning for local elections in the city of Zagreb. So it seems to me that the wording that this is about syncope opposition has certainly come to light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66834	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first breach of the Rules of Procedure was sought by Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66835	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I think you should react, I beg you, this is already So is it written somewhere that in the first three seconds I have to say which article? [[Intruding Radin: Which article, which article?]] I can tell which article is in 15 seconds. [[Yes, right away, right away, firstly, yes.]] So the article is 248, do you want time to read what it's about? [[Intruder Radin: Let's not pollemize, say which article, now.]] Here, give me a break, please. Can you give me back my time, please? [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] So Mr. Bacic broke that article because that article makes sense in the Rules of Procedure to search for a break before others exhibit and to say what the subject is. [[We'll stop time, we've got that power.]] So if there's a colleague named Bacic here for the syncope he should be, he's got psychic Milan syndrome. So every time a man shows up, he waits for the last second, and he always breaks the time, so you give him a break, and then as an analyst here, he comments on what the other one said. It's not meant for breaks. So I'm asking you to warn your colleague Bačić not to act like one. So he has to announce what he's going to talk about before and not to refer every time to the topics of colleagues from other clubs. It simply doesn't comply with that Rules of Procedure. I ask you to interrupt him next time in such an exhibition as soon as he refers to someone who spoke after him, or after he asked for a break. So this is not Branko Bačić, but the psychic Milan, obviously who dressed well. [[Thank you, here's 30 seconds more you get. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: We get it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66836	We figured it out, but look, Article 249. The Rules of Procedure say that the Chair will not grant a recess for the meeting of the Club of Representatives if the request for a recess is submitted: (a) before the agenda is established and the change to the agenda, (b) for reasons relating to the work of the working bodies of the Assembly, (c) in relation to the resignation or statement of the representatives outside the assembly. A colleague named Bacic sought a break for the internal policy of the situation. That's what gets into it. And in c) did not enter your statement by hair because you spoke of Mr Mikulić until he was in the assembly and then appeared and so you did not violate the Rules of Procedure, Mr Maras. ... It's nothing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The left hand is nothing, the right hand is bad, what do you want? ... No, no, it's nothing, it's nothing, no, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Sir. No, let's not, let's not, let's not, don't take the word [[Intruder Maras: Mr. Chairman, please, Mr. Chairman.]] No, don't. [[So I'm asking you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66837	I'm begging you, so you should... Calm down, Djakic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66838	You have a warning, unfortunately you have a warning again, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, you have a reminder again. Mr. Dobrović, here you go. [[Intruder Maras: Mr. Chairman, please hold a session.]] He spoke of an internal political situation which was a topic. [[Intruder Maras: So you encourage, you encourage people to break the Rules of Procedure.]] You know what, we won't argue anymore about you and me, why fight when we don't, because in this case, in this case, you have no right to again, but everyone keeps their opinions but I unfortunately have to chair when I'm there we'll say whatever we want, when I sit there because you know that when I'm sitting there, you can tell me whatever you want. Here you go. ... Not while I'm sitting here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66839	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Article 238 No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[No, no, no, you need to come here.]] So, by telling the truth, you're disdaining the MPs. [[A breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry.]] So Mr. Bacic argues that I, who was the only one who had the strength as minister to change the direction of the waste management system in the Republic of Croatia, did harm by stalling. And isn't that what the European Commission is telling you now that you need to step up exactly the measures that I was first representing. And ask yourself, Mr. Bacic, what is your responsibility for ignoring this world for years because it's been talked about for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66840	Mr. Bacic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Dobrović, aside from the fact that Article 238 does not mention falseness, so you have injured Article 238, you are disdaining me that I have done nothing as a minister in the waste management section. At that time, a waste management plan was put in place. I warned you that it is not good for you to change this plan to such an extent that the existing plan will require and withdraw the delay and new changes in spatial plans, etc., etc. And now that that's happening, you're now accusing those who have to do it according to your plan. That's what I said you should take care of when you talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66842	I don't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I don't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sir, in no case at all. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66843	Thank you very much. If Article 236 was injured, then this was not an injury to the Rules of Procedure, what you just said was an article 235 of the replica, as was the replica Mr. Bačić said at the pay phone and not a break. So, Mr. Chairman, you must understand the difference between a break, a replica and a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So Mr. Bačić constantly uses other forms of expression in the Croatian Parliament to give replicas. So it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If this is the case, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, tell Mr. Bačić a warning, not only to the opposition, but not to the opposition just to make warnings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66844	Mr. Bacic used to talk about the internal political situation, I'm not defending anyone. As you were saying, whatever you were saying, I didn't hurt you, but when you got up and started talking without giving you my word. That's what I'm right about. I don't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure right now, and I especially don't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure in what they say about the pay phone. You never got an injury to the Rules of Procedure for what you were saying at the pay phone, but because, last time, because, you remember, you insulted the one behind you, and that was me. And you have no right to do that. Done. Mr. Dobrović, come in. HDZ, that's for sure. We can't talk right now. Wait till I get there, I'll come back a little later. We're moving on to a debate on agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66869	A fellow Bull raised his hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66870	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am looking on behalf of the club MOST break of 10 minutes due to continued social responsibility of the Croatian Telecom Authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66871	Okay. It's 11 and I'll see you at 11.25. It's 11:00. 15 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66873	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. The financial results of Croatian Telecom in 2017 show that another successful year has been completed and that a convincing leading position in all segments of telecommunications, telecommunications market and, of course, Deute Telecom as the owner of the team is satisfied. And according to the index of the digital economy and society in 2017. Croatia takes 24 seats, 28 EU members, or, one place lower than it was in the 2016 report. Croatia has made some progress in all 5 categories... and the reason for its fall is for the place, is the rapid growth of the digitisation of other EU countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia notes slow progress in the broadband network, increased coverage, as well as the number of subscribers, but the loyalty of these indicators remains below the EU average. Here we are talking about the profit of the owner who created it over the back of Croatian workers. Since 2000, Croatia's telecom has fired 10,000 workers, but there have been employment, so 1,1400 workers as long as they were at the moment Deute Telecom took over this company, today only 3900 were employed. Where is the social responsibility of Croatian Telecom? The company that sets and operates on our market, finds the biggest profit outside the Croatian borders, which is 70%, workers working for the Croatian Telecom, have a lower salary than the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. If the most profitable company in Croatia, such a miserable wage for workers, who will keep our experts in Croatia, who will build a digital society, who will raise the standards of Croatian citizens? The relation of HT administration to workers is still praised by the employer partner certificate, for the excellence of resource management. This is what the unions are warning about. The procedures of the Croatian Telecom and the criteria for this certificate do not justify them. What kind of employer violates the laws of the Republic of Croatia? What kind of employer, partner, where in four years the company left or got fired half the workers, and boasted of a huge profit? What kind of employer, partner, is it, that removes permanent jobs and replaces them with agency jobs and student work. Over 40% of Croatian telecom workers work in temporary jobs. Over 70% of workers working for HT pay less than the average of the Republic of Croatia. Can the administration, whose members have a salary of between 100000 and 300000 kn per month understand that why it gives wages lower than the average salary of the most profitable company in the Republic of Croatia. Is this what they do in a country where countries and Germany don't work? Therefore, we seek the social responsibility of this company and a fair coordination of interest between owners, capital and workers. Indeed, for 2/3 of the fewer workers, so much profit without paying the right of service, we know what happened, when changes to the law, where property relations are not resolved, we gave solutions, HT does not work in the interest of the development of Croatian society, because it gives the basic greatest profit in the EU is in Croatia, and our employment is their slavery. It's time to say a lot, because of this, but when the government had no strength and courage to seek the company's social responsibility and fair coordination of interest between owners and capital, workers organised. And for this reason, they also have a protest tomorrow to protect their jobs to protect their Croatian interests, national, and not to invest Croatian profits from another country, that HT, their administration, is not responsible for Croatian society. It's about getting huge, digging up our workers, directing who knows everything, and we're at the bottom of the board on the Internet and digital society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66874	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u66875	Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we move to the vote, I invite you to pay our respects to former Chief of Staff of the OSCE, one of the heroes of the Homeland War, Chief General Petar Stipetic. - A moment of silence - May it be his eternal glory.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76505	Good morning, everyone. Today we will unite, please just a little quiet, a little quiet, please. Today we will combine 2 reports, if you agree, if no one is against it, these are the reports of the regulations that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted under the legal authority, are you against Mr. Glasovic, are you against what I read? And I will see you well later, means: - Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the legal authority - Report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority So one is in the plural and one is in the singler, that is the whole story. I'll read everything, so you'll understand. Therefore, the first Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 3. The Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Regulations. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The second report, in addition to these reports on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, calls for the same provisions, but this debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, and the political system. So it's about different provisions, you know what they are, because you've got all the necessary materials. Do you mind if we unify these discussions? There isn't. There were arms up, please. We're moving on to a debate on agenda points. So two are united points. Who wants to take a word from the committee rapporteurs mentioned here? Mr. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health Ivo Milatić, please. Oh, no? Excuse me, Department of Environmental and Energy Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76507	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of Art. 1. The Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Regulation amending the Law on Renewable Energy and High Efficiency Cogeneration at its meeting on 28 December 2017 and was published on 28 December 2017. The Regulation amending the Law on Renewable Sources of Energy and High Efficiency Cogeneration amended the provision of the Law on Renewable Sources of Energy and High Efficiency Cogeneration which prescribed the obligation of the electricity supplier to take over the total net energy supplied by the preferential producers from the electricity market operator in accordance with their share on the electricity market delivered by 31.12.2016 at a regulated purchase price of 0,42 kuna per kilowatt hour, which means that this Regulation extends the time limit for the acquisition of the electricity produced by the supplier until 31.12.2018. It is also prescribed that the Eco-Balkan Group shall start work by 1 January 2017 at the latest, i.e. a provision requiring the entry into force of the Article on the same date. 70. The law, in a way that those deadlines have been extended by one year, and the Ecobilanca Group begins with the work of 1 January 2019. The Croatian Energy Market Operator has concluded contracts for the purchase of electricity from renewable sources, which are the same obligation for privileged producers to pay the incentive price for electricity, and the law stipulates that the total energy delivered by the privileged producers buys CROTE, and also the electricity suppliers are obliged to buy at a regulated purchase price of EUR 0.42 per kilowatt hour. Since it's an order of law. 40. The law prescribed that an operator of the electricity market after 1 January 2018 sells the net electricity supplied by privileged producers on the electricity market. This would stop the supplier's obligation to purchase electricity regulated and the Croatian HROTE market operator would then have to sell the net electricity delivered from the privileged producers at market prices, which are variable and variable on a daily basis, and ultimately significantly lower than the regulated purchase price. This would lead to a significant lack of financial resources from the Croatian energy market operator needed to meet the commitments made by CROTE with privileged electricity producers. Since no other models of financing of renewable energy production are currently established, at incentives prices, and in order to prevent infringements of the contractual obligations which CROTE has under the contract for the purchase of electricity from renewable sources, the proposal for a Regulation proposes an extension of the deadline for meeting the obligations of the electricity supplier and the start of the work of the Eco-Balkan Group as well as the deadline for the entry into force of the provisions of the Article. 40. The law. Taking into account the fact that the deadlines prescribed by the provisions of the Law which were proposed and before which the date of the regulation had to enter into force, for reasons of urgency and purpose, the proposed entry into force of the Regulation on the first day of its publication in the National Journal was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76508	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Branka Ramljak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, members of the Parliament. So here I present a report on the Regulation adopted on 29.12.2017, with the application of 1.1.2018, which amends an article in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which actually refers to the possibility of making consecutive contracts in a larger period than is prescribed in the existing Law on Science and Higher Education. Namely, it should be pointed out that this roof law on science and higher education, it prescribes a way of hiring people selected in scientific co-operation and professional titles. It says here in art. The 42nd century is 6th century. The law provides the possibility for persons selected to work on projects of limited duration, with the Treaty on working with such persons being concluded for a certain period of time during the project or its shares. However, Article 42 of that Article does not provide for the possibility to conclude consecutive contracts for a period of time longer than those prescribed by the Labour Act. Namely, the Labour Act in Art. 12. prescribes that the total duration of all successive employment contracts concluded for a given period of time, including the first contract, shall not be continuous for more than 3 years, unless it is necessary for the replacement of a temporary non-existent worker or for some other objective reasons is permitted by law or collective agreement and any additional amendment or addition of a work contract to a specified time which would affect the extension of the contract is considered to be the next consecutive working contract for a specified period of time. In other words, in the case of projects whose duration is longer than three years, a person could not be employed for a period longer than the period prescribed by the Labour Act. In the system of science and higher education, there is often a need to conclude consecutive contracts because of the very extent of meeting the objectives, achieving results and indicators of project success, and the need for more consecutive work contracts to be concluded with people who are employed on limited duration projects. So now I would just read for the end that one supplement relating to Article 42(6). The Law on Science and Higher Education, therefore, ‘with persons working on a limited duration project, it is possible to conclude consecutive work contracts for a certain period of time for more than three years, provided that this is justified by objective project reasons or reasons for the timely and quality implementation of the project or the share of the project to which that person is engaged, that the total duration of all consecutive contracts of work for a specified time should not be continuously longer than six years’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76510	Thank you, too. He will now take the word of State Secretary Mr Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary this time really at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76511	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. Following the introduction of public health care concessions at the primary level of health activities, Article 215 shall apply. The 2008 Health Protection Act provides for the transitional provisions of the law to continue the work of the employees found in primary health care. The Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act of 2013 allows those tenants to continue to carry out health activities in the area of the health care home or pharmacy health institution where they have carried out that activity until the date of entry into force of that law and in accordance with the provisions of the general rules on the lease of business premises. Since the above procedure has not been implemented and healthcare professionals have not continued to carry out health activities in private practice, in accordance with the provisions of the general rules on the lease of a business space, the healthcare activity on the basis of the lease is now still running around 600 healthcare professionals. It should be pointed out that not extending the time limit for their work on private leases would result in the loss of those jobs in primary health care and therefore in relation to the appropriate financial effects on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The follow-up to the end of that procedure and in order to ensure availability, comprehensiveness and continuity of the provision of health care to the public, it was necessary to allow for the continuation of the work of those healthcare professionals until 31 December 2018. The activities for which it is necessary to enable the continued work of healthcare professionals in the lease are pharmaceutical activities, dental laboratory activities and individual specialist activities. The issue covered by the Health Protection Act Supplement Regulation will be regulated by the new Health Protection Act, which is scheduled to be adopted this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76512	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76513	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and MPs. It is therefore a regulation amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of December of last year. It is therefore that the area of the capital market in the Republic of Croatia has been regulated by the Capital Market Act adopted in 2008, it came into force in early 2009 and has been changed even seven times so far. It primarily amended the law for the purpose of further harmonisation with the EU acquis, which is indeed very dynamic in the area of the capital markets and is subject to frequent changes, i.e. the creation of a precondition for the full integration of the financial market for the Republic of Croatia into the single market of EU Member States, i.e. the intensity and purpose of the law itself. By joining full EU membership, provisions that allow the liberalisation of the capital market and cross-border co-operation are in force. In view of the need for further harmonisation of the Croatian capital market regulatory framework with EU rules in the area in question, and in order to avoid its non-transparentity due to a number of previous amendments to the law, an amendment to a brand-new capital market law has been made. The law was built and is in government procedures, so we believe that within two or three weeks, they will be on the assembly benches. The point is, you will see for yourself a very complex, demanding and extensive legal act. In fact, the law has over 750 articles. Taking into account exactly the planned time-limit for the adoption of the Capital Market Act, and in order to ensure, in the meantime, the necessary application of certain EU regulations since 1.1 this year, in particular Regulation (EC) No As regards the interoperability between the system of settlement and the intention of financial instruments and payment system, those provisions have been proposed to amend and supplement the applicable Capital Market Act through the Government Regulation. So the regulation regulated and ensured the functioning of the system in two segments. The first is the creation of a basis for licensing the Zagreb Stock Exchange in order to obtain authorisation to publish a trading report for the account of investment companies under the MIFIR Regulation. Therefore, the provisions of the MIFIR Regulation shall apply from 3 January of this year, and in order to publish the stock exchange, it is necessary to issue a licence by the HANFA or to apply for the authorisation to publish a trading report for the account of investment firms. So it's an authorized system of publication, so-called APA and investment companies report on stock exchanges, in particular the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which respects the established rules and mechanisms of the so-called so-called so-called ". MiFir Regulation publishes trading reports for the account of investment firms. The Zagreb Stock Exchange has already done part of the business according to the applicable Capital Market Act, but that this Regulation amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act was not adopted by the Zagreb Stock Exchange could not continue to carry out the relevant activity or could be licensed for that purpose. Also in this situation, investment companies would be forced to submit their trade reports to another stock exchange, so the stock exchange in another Member State would not have a license to publish the mentioned activity. Therefore, this change allowed the Zagreb Stock Exchange to prepare and introduce APA services, and the launch of the authorisation procedure for obtaining the status of the provider of this service at HANFA. Those actions, hence the request for approval by the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and the decision-making procedure for the same by HANFA were to be completed before 3 January 2018 when MiFIR Regulation began to apply. The second area covered by this Regulation was the establishment of interoperability between the system of alignment and the system of settlement of financial instruments and Croatian large payment systems. The regulation provides for the launch of bankruptcy, recovery or liquidation proceedings and other legal measures against participants in the system of settlement or settlement or other legal persons who make transactions on the capital market will not produce legal effects by means of money held on special purpose cash accounts opened by the payment system manager. Even if such a procedure and liquidation has been initiated before and if other legal actions have been taken before the settlement of the transaction will be carried out. Here are the two areas that the regulation regulated, and again I put it in the context of the very rapid arrival of the Capital Market Act itself, which will then integrate these two amendments into the very text of the law, so we will have a debate here on the whole bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76514	Thank you, too. And finally Mrs Katica Prpic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76515	Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Parliamentary Representatives and Parliamentary Representatives. This is about supplementing and amending the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government which entered into force on 12 January 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on officials and tenants is complemented by the fact that, it states that the service is at a certain time to carry out temporary jobs and jobs whose scope has temporarily increased may last for the longest 6 months and may be extended for another 6 months. In view of the need for employment for the implementation of projects financed by EU funds or programmes for a specified period of time for a period of more than 12 months, which does not allow for the addition of the law of Article 28. A law on officials and tenants in a local, regional self-government where, due to the increased scope of work, a project financed by the Union funds and programme, a person may be admitted to the service for a certain period of time during the project. The proposed provision concerns the employment of project managers, administrators, coordinators and other persons working on work related to the management of a project considered as employees of local units. However, persons who are employed for the direct implementation of other project activities, i.e. on jobs subject to the project, such as the employment of women more vulnerable groups, are not considered to be employees and subsistences of the local unit, and are subject to general labour regulations. This would allow for strengthening the administrative capacity of local and regional (regional) self-government units and ensure specific conditions for the implementation of projects themselves which are in the public interest, i.e. the interest of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. The salaries of employees in the implementation of projects financed by EU funds or programmes under the grant contract shall be secured from the EU Fund's funds and not from the budget of units of local, regional and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76516	Thank you very much. We have a series of replicas. The first replica goes to Mr Miletic's presentation. The first one is a replicator, Mr. Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76517	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I'd ask Mr. Miletic to tell us, I mean, it's not a problem that's since yesterday. So that doesn't solve it, and unfortunately we always have the same situation, so to tell us if this is going to become common, we can already calculate the regulation that we're going to make every year. Is there a period of time and why this lack of funds problem is solved already once in order to have a completely transparent situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76518	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76519	Thank you. Mr. Representative, this is not going to be about our practice. We have this year in the legislative plan to amend the law on renewable energy sources in the second quarter, to adopt a regulation so that as far as we're concerned, this is the first and last time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76520	The second is the replica of Mr Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76521	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. Here we are, I can say we worked well together while I was also Minister of the Ministry of Economy, and then you weren't in charge of energy at all. For this reason, I can only say that I am dissatisfied that you come here and defend something that is actually from the time that concerns the Government of Zoran Milanovic, which refers to the Minister of the Vrdoljak in that term, and you need to present here a half solution that ultimately does not solve the real problem. One of the consequences we have already seen problems with the compensation of renewable energy sources that have grown. This is the other side of the medal. This regulated market knows what the pressure of the European Commission is and that this cannot survive. It just can't survive like this. But I can't agree that Minister Coric or anyone who would be Deputy Prime Minister came here today, so they can say what the government's position is on this? What do we do in the future? Do we, as counterpart Maras says, by regulation every year so that this goes past the debate in the Assembly and move on to future times? Every year, we grow more and more inflows of new commitments. Now, we've rescheduled HROTE with that, but we know that there's actually a much greater danger here. If it spills over to CROTE, it will spill over again and increase the fee. So, I think it's crucial that the most responsible people, I know that now as Secretary of State, you're responsible for the energy resistor, but that the past simply can't be solved like this. So, it's impossible to do that, and we're going to have to ask the Secretary-General to offer which is the solution, not to be the law in another quarter, but to know what the solution is, because this is how it's going to spill over on our citizens, and through parafiscal pressures, we're going to make life even more difficult for all entrepreneurs and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76522	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76523	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I just have to remind you that you had the opportunity and Mr. Dobrović all of what you said in your terms, since the law came into force at a time when you were Minister and Mr. Dobrović. So now we're just solving this problem here that we have to solve, which is to ensure continuity in which everything before the commitments that the Republic of Croatia has made through its body called CROTE will be resolved in the future. Be assured, we will bring such a solution and a proposal to this honorable home that will generally solve this problem in the time in which we predicted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76524	Thank you, too. The next line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76525	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, be more specific. This was signed by Minister Vrdoljak at the last meeting of the Government, as regards the subsidy i.e. Incentive prices for renewable energy sources, which mainly referred to wind and gas, should therefore also have been built by the Peruca thermal power plant because they had nowhere to go with gas, so they needed one drive for the people to pay expensive energy production for, of course, the interests directly encouraged by the Government. Well, tell me loud and clear, who signed it? Is this man now the head of the coalition, one of the heads of coalition partners? You can't say that. In fact, the government that is now at this point is based on the man who signed it. That's true. And that's what the people need to know. And the damages we pay a billion and a half kuna a year. A billion and a half kuna a year side pockets, and MOST is as interested as we promote and promote, these are solars, suns, where every man in his family's money that we give each year in 3 years, on every house of man and living facility and public institution, everyone could build solars for free. And the man would be independent, not the Perun thermal power plants, and you know that he's from the government. So you know the reactions? Do you know who owned it? You know everything, however, you're referring to some things, not who signed them, who sent you, and you're defending it now, that it's okay. So what does it matter who was behind the month, two months? That's gotta stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76526	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76527	The Honorable and esteemed representative, the law knows exactly who signed what, how much I think, the one who signed those contracts you're talking about, is still in that position he signed, it's not about Minister Vrdoljak, it's about the director of HROTE. This, as far as we're concerned, you'll be familiar with the way solars will be dealt with in the new bill and in the new rules. I'm sure you'll be happy with that proposal. We make sure that in the future all renewable energy models are encouraged in a way that will be possible and sustainable, and clearly, we take care of what has been signed so far and what are the obligations of the Republic of Croatia and we cannot question what cannot be questioned. And that is the basic principle of the functioning of every responsible authority to respect continuity because it was not signed by any minister, it was signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its bodies and we are obliged to respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76528	Thank you very much. We're moving on to Mrs. Ramljak's replicas. The first is Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76529	Thank you very much. My colleague Ramljak, I would like to point out that I am not against allowing people to work on projects, but I am against introducing a practice that is likely to be used by many now for the sudden recruitment of scientific recruits, scientists at universities for a certain time. You and yourself, in the light of this Regulation, say that by the number of people working in the EU's bottom system and that these people are 10600 and something, and now you allow this regulation not to increase, but that they have people who decide on it, employers at universities are able to hire people on projects suddenly for certain times. So I'm against that kind of approach. If projects last 3 years and more, I think universities should plan to hire such employees, these are long-term projects, people can do them and plan them for other jobs for people scientists working on these projects. So in my opinion, it is possible for us to remain at the bottom of the EU by employees in the sector for which you are in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76530	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ramljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76531	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So this regulation does not apply to these future scientists but it is explicit for 175 young PhDs who are employed through the Croatian Science Foundation in 2015, so they concluded contracts with them in time for two plus two years and there was a problem. However, in 2017, when the first time ended then why so, I would now not have entered into it in any case was not in line with the Labour Law. The labour law says it can be concluded for three years, and a special law can regulate the conclusion of consecutive contracts. Since we, in a special law, and this is the Law on Science and Higher Education, did not have that, we suggested that for this generation that was adopted in 2015, here with the regulation, we resolve this situation because we did not have a collective contract in the meantime. We have this year clearly in the legislative plan we have our roof law on science and high education where work starts very soon, I think only as far as the commission is concerned, so I hope there will be no more need for this regulation, that we will resolve it with a law that will systematically resolve the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76532	Thank you, too. Second Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76533	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Ramljak. Well, here's my question that went that way, and now I've got the answer. You're talking about 175 people it's not even that big a number, but in their fates it's a large number, each of them is a big problem. This seems a good explanation to me, says the change is necessary to increase the employability of persons in the system of science and education and their personal development, it will have effects on the development of the economy and of course attract funds from EU funds where these projects are financed. That's what it says in the explanation. And of course, you're still well mentioned now that this kind of employment is on certain projects that last for more than three years in college with the Labour Act. On the one hand, this is all an explanation with him I agree, it's a good explanation, but if we take away a particular group of citizens' rights that have other citizens, so we derivate the labour law that they can work for more than three years, it creates significant problems for them, these are young people who need to borrow, so they don't have those traits that others have that work indefinitely. Please explain that to me now. You say this will not apply to the future, but how is it that if we plan to still develop projects, if we plan to attract funds from EU funds, then what will happen to these new projects, how will they be defined, if they are defined for a certain period of time, means if the project takes four or five years how will this be resolved?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76535	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. So what happened in 2015 was someone else made that decision, and I repeat, so it applies exclusively to that generation, they were contracted to two plus two. For the next generation, today we have them in a system such as that through the Croatian Foundation 375, but the next generation that it went under the Labour Act means three plus three. And believe me, as far as the doctor is concerned, within six years, it's the deadline for someone to reach a doctorate. Here in that part is that, which is why it is encouraged to actually end as soon as possible before that education. I will only remind the EU in the west that deadline for completion of the doctorate has been reduced to four years, and we still have six years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76536	Thank you, too. Now we move on to the replicas of Mr. Dulibic. He's the first and only Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76537	Thank you very much. Mr. Dulibic. In this regulation, you extended the deadline for 600 and some of the doctors working in primary health care, and I am only interested in how this problem will be solved in 2018 or will we meet with the same regulation at the end of this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76538	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76539	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we will not meet again with that same regulation. A new health care law has been developed, and we will allow the procedure to be addressed in the next week in the e- Consultation procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76540	Thank you very much. Now the replica to Mr. Tufekcic, again, Mr. Maras. Here you go. furio
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76541	Thank you very much. Mr. Tufekci. In this Regulation of yours, I note that this is a regulation that is comprehensive, so it is eight articles. It is the fact that many of the directives you are referring to in the regulation come from 2012, 2014 which says that it was possible to amend this law in a regular procedure, not only in 2017, perhaps in 2016 and this would be unnecessary in this way, past public debate beyond the reach of the Croatian public, to make certain changes that are not exactly harmless and insignificant. This is about reporting the business of investment companies on stock exchanges and information and the availability of information which, for example, refers to securities trading, and we have seen the situation around Agrokor, how these prices changed, how it worked. And I think the failure of the government of Andrej Plenkovic that this law did not comply with the directives in the last year, if not the failure of the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, because these things could have been harmonised long ago and I urge you to refer the law to the procedure as soon as possible, that we do not have these regulations that are essentially, which should be technical in nature. But if you see this regulation, it has eight articles. She would dare here to say she is longer and more complete than 90% of the laws we adopt in this House. So I can understand these certain regulations that went for a short-term prolongation of the deadlines, etc. But this is a substance regulation that had to go into legal procedure and public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76542	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76543	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, MP. It is therefore true that this regulation regulates 8 articles. However, taking into account the scope of the law itself, as I said, it covers some 750 articles. It's really a minor amendment to the law. Why did it go with the regulation? This law has been preparing for a long time. It has long been in the works and as I have said it is a very complex, professional and demanding matter for the transposition of the directive into the new Capital Market Act. So unfortunately, the process of making itself and the whole procedure was delayed, i.e. it lasted a little longer than was expected, and then at the end of the year, it resorted to the adoption of a regulation amending the law, which I would say regulates two technical issues. So it's about financial reports that are important. However, it would not happen if it did not adopt a regulation without seeing the light of day. But she would not see the light of day through the Zagreb Stock Exchange but through another stock exchange in the Member State. Therefore, participants in the capital market and the interested public would not be left without a report, but this would not happen through the Zagreb Stock Exchange. The other thing is this interoperability. The law is as I said finished, in the government procedure is next week and very soon will come here on benches, so you will see that it is really demanding, complex, extensive and that then, of course, this part is included in the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76544	Thank you, too. And in the end, Mrs. Prpic will also be replicated by Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76545	Thank you very much, dear colleague Radin. In this regulation, as Mrs Prpic said, it is about the binding of certain jobs and the possibility of hiring people in the EU projects in local, local self-government units. What we are concerned about here is that when these projects are prepared to finance the European Union in local self-government units, we may not have been able to find people who will be responsible, who will implement these projects which, of course, do not correspond to me on the ground, or we should be clear if there are more jobs, if there is not enough capacity to take certain people for a certain time to help implement these projects. But when it comes to leading places, it seems more like a situation to me that in this way it is trying to open space for additional employment in the most responsible places what shouldn't be so. Because I believe that units of local self-government would if they were already implementing certain projects of a more complex nature, that they should already have a certain structure to implement these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76546	Thank you very much. Before we continue, allow me to welcome to the diplomatic gallery a delegation of the Korean National Assembly, i.e. the Parliament of Korea, the Republic of Korea and the ambassadors. Here it is, the State Secretary will respond to the replica of the Honored Katica Prcic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76547	Thank you very much. The respected regulation is, as you yourself once again underlined, a recognised situation on the ground and all indicators show that we are currently able to withdraw more funds from the funds, so it is necessary to employ a certain number of professionals. These professional axes could still be employed, meaning a year's duration. However, the funds themselves demand that the leaders remain in continuity, not after a year to break up, to choose some others and to come a little, also raises the questionability of the implementation of the project. That is why, the possibility of attracting as many funds and work as possible in continuity is foreseen and adopted by this Regulation, and all detailed data are already explained in a letter to all cities and municipalities and we constantly have them through e-Government, through personal contacts available to make these projects as successful as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76548	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. Before we begin the debate, however, allow me to inform you that at 12 o'clock and mother we will vote. And now we are on our way to the debate, and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the honourable representative Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76549	Dear Vice President, members of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues. It should certainly be noted that these regulations are in place, that the ministries are implementing regulations, which we are witnessing these days, such as the "Wish" programme, but on this point. It is certainly good that all five regulations are a united debate, so we all have a first-hand opportunity, and we have heard in good part from these answers that we have and the questions that have been asked and the answers that we have heard from the representatives of the ministries and the government, that we are already quite a bit of doubt or questions that have been opened up or we will get them. A Regulation amending the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration which provides for the obligation of the electricity supplier to assume the total net energy supplied by the electricity operator by the electricity market operator, in accordance with their share on the electricity market delivered by 31 December 2016 at the regulated purchase price, by means of a regulation extending those deadlines to one year, given that the provision of Article 40 of the Law provides that the electricity market operator is to sell the total net energy supplied by the privileged producers on the electricity market after 1 January 2018. This would stop the supplier’s obligation to buy electricity and CROTE from the regulated producers at market prices which are variable and variable on a daily basis and ultimately significantly lower than the regulated buying price. Since no other models of financing of renewable energy production are currently established at the incentive prices and in order to prevent infringements of the contractual obligations which CROTE has under the contract for the purchase of electricity from renewable sources, this Regulation extends the deadline for meeting the obligations of the electricity supplier and the start of the work of the eco-balance sheet group, as well as the time limit for the entry into force of the provision of Article 40 of the Law. The Amending and Supplements Regulation of the Capital Market Act is of exceptional importance to the adoption of this Regulation so that no distortions on the capital market would arise from the adoption of the new Capital Market Act, or to allow the smooth functioning of the capital market, including the publication of a trading report for investment firms, which are issues of the current economic policy. In order to publish a trading report for the account of investment firms, the approval of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency should be obtained and appropriate policies and mechanisms should be established for the publication of the data prescribed by the Regulation. In particular, investment firms in trade reports will have to submit to the authorised system after the entry into force of this Regulation and after 3 January 2018, respectively. If no legal basis is created for the licensing of the Zagreb Stock Exchange for the stated activity of an investment firm from the Republic of Croatia, such data will have to be supplied directly by means of a licensed stock exchange from another EU member rather than through the Zagreb Stock Exchange. The provisions of the law lay down the area of business of persons authorised to carry out financial instruments, the conditions for organised trading in financial instruments, the procedure for issuing securities, the public offering to protect investors and holders of securities rights, etc. Regulation supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Article 42(6) of the Law provides for the possibility of working on limited duration projects for persons selected for scientific cooperation and expertise, where the contract for work with such persons is concluded for a certain period of time during the project or its shares. However, that Article 42 of the Law does not provide for the possibility to conclude consecutive contracts for a period of time longer than those prescribed by the Labour Act. In particular, the Labour Act of Article 12 provides that the total duration of all consecutive contracts concluded for a specified period includes the first working contract, must not be continuous for more than three years, unless it is necessary to replace a temporary non-representative worker or for some other objective reasons permitted by law or collective agreement, and any additional amendment or addition of a work contract for a specified period of time which would affect the extension of the contractual duration of that contract shall be considered to be the following consecutive working contract for a specified time. Exceptionally, it is necessary to increase the employability of persons in the science and higher education system since, according to data available on the European Commission's website for 2016, it is responsible for collecting EUROSTAT statistics in full-time work in the science system, including public and private sectors, only 10,697 persons have been employed. Regulation supplementing the Health Protection Act. The health care law introduces concessions for the provision of public health services at the primary level of health activities and the transitional provisions of this law regulates the status of health workers in primary health care. The Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act provides that healthcare professionals performing private practice on the basis of the leases referred to in Article 215. Health care law and Article 29. The Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act may be implemented in practice in the area of home health or pharmacy health institutions in which they have carried out that activity since the date of entry into force of that law and in accordance with the provisions of the general rules on the lease of a business space. Since the above procedure has not been implemented, healthcare professionals have not continued to carry out health activities in private practice in accordance with the provisions of the general rules on the lease of business space. The health activity on the basis of the lease is now still running around 600 healthcare professionals. It should be pointed out that not extending the time limit for their work in private practice would result in the loss of those jobs in primary health care and therefore in relation to the appropriate financial effects on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The follow-up to the end of that procedure and in order to ensure availability, comprehensiveness and continuity of the provision of health care to the public should allow for the continuation of the work of those healthcare professionals until 31 December 2018. The activities for which it is necessary to enable the continued work of healthcare professionals in the lease are pharmaceutical activities, dental laboratory activities and individual specialist activities. And the 5th regulation, a regulation that tells us about the addition of laws and about officials and tenants in local, regional and regional self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A law on officials and tenants in local and regional self-government has been prescribed that the service is for a certain period of time to carry out temporary jobs or jobs from whose scope it has temporarily increased for a maximum period of 6 months and may be extended for another 6 months. In view of the need for employment to carry out projects financed by EU funds or programmes for a specific period of time of more than 12 months, the current law does not allow for the addition of Article 28 on staff and subsistence staff in local and regional self-government according to which, due to the need to work on the implementation of projects financed by EU funds or programmes, a person may be admitted to the service for a certain period of time during that project. The proposed provision refers to the employment of project managers, administrators, coordinators and other persons working on projects related to the management of the project considered as employees of local units. However, persons who are employed for direct implementation of other project activities or in the tasks which are the subject of the project, e.g. The employment of women to vulnerable groups, it is the programme "Walk", where it is a good opportunity for many local units, especially in areas that are not so rich in the Republic of Dalmatia Zagora, Lika, Slavonia etc., many cities and municipalities have applied to these projects. And certainly for every commendation, it is possible for the management of a project that has a certain stage to mean its beginning but also the problems of running the project itself so that all of this together is not legally restricted and that it does not create additional pressure on local self-government. That is why this regulation is good, and it helps directly through the resolution ministries, which are almost all those who have implemented, which have projects from EU funds can be more effective in implementing a specific project. Here we are, who have been pushed out into certain units of local self-government, we know best what we would do and what it will do to us and what it is now that brings us to implementation, because we have already heard from a good part of us in these competitions. It means what this provision means to us. What's important doesn't burden our budgets. Here's what's important, it doesn't burden our budgets except in a small amount, a percentage that by percentages of development, etc. In accordance with the law, each unit is required to participate. But 80, 90 and more in this financial sense is borne by the EU, i.e. the project that has been implemented, which has undergone all the procedures, will also be able to extract funds and include funds for not only the financing of a person but a complete project. That's why all four regulations, all the five regulations that we've had here, have been analysed together with the members of the ministries, go in favour, faster, more efficient and more transparent, so as to say the management of certain laws and the implementation of certain laws. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support reports on these regulations and what I want to say, the Government has not violated its legal frameworks through these Regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76550	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76551	I asked you a question about what you came from the area where I came from myself, so we're talking about subsidized, privileged electricity that's cheaper in imports than when it's manufactured in our country. The fact that Ivan Vrdoljak is on the proposal, as minister, in Milanovic's government, the government has made the decision that has been taken and which is causing enormous damage to the Republic of Croatia and to your local community and to my local community. Because a billion and a half kuna a year from a billion, a billion and a half goes into the pockets of foreign investors. That's why it was supposed to be Peru's thermal power plant, but there's also an incentive to gas as an energy source. Is it possible that no one will publicly say that this is a bad decision that harms local self-government? But that's then Ivan Vrdoljak, in the party everyone is silent. Is that a democracy party? Is it possible for this man to do so much harm, or do I not know, in you if a decision is made and it will not be made by the party president, so you will have to obey, so is there any democracy? Is there democracy to say that this is a harmful decision that hurts Croatia? In 3 years, how much do we pay subsidies to foreign investors, who knows who, the preferential price, can build solar power plants on every building in the Republic of Croatia, on every facility and the essence of an independent family and institution, what would you, as you comment, have democracy that this is a bad decision that is at the expense of Croatian man and Croatian state? Is there a democracy in the parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76552	The answer of the respected representative Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, whether it's a good decision or a bad decision and whether it can be condemned or applauded, is not in my jurisdiction to be able to respond to such a thing, to such a setting. We are witnesses here and what we heard from the ministry means, the person mentioned did not sign the contract, the institution that signs such contracts, who is in charge is known. As far as local units are concerned, we'd be the happiest if it wasn't lip by the electricity produced, we'd like it to be X Kuna by the electricity produced because we know that this investment in our areas, I know that you're partly targeting Trill because in Trill, we've built wind parks, I can only say that we have more than a million kunas of pure income from that work, but we'd like to have more if possible. So, will new decisions, new proposals, new calculations that will most likely follow what we have heard because we know that this decision, this regulation, is valid by the end of the year. I firmly believe that this relationship may be reconsidered, but that I am entering into this depth of party obedience relations, this or that, I think that at this point I am very, very inappropriately speaking, given that it is regulations that had to regulate the current situation and in this area that the obligations that have been made must be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76554	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76555	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Šipić, clearly it is to welcome this 5 regulations, Article 28, employment at a certain time of 6+6 project leaders to units of local self-government, but he would just like to warn, I may have misunderstood, because we know that local self-government units are limited in percentages for wages that must not be more than 20% of the original income of local self-government units. And we know that certain units of local self-government are at the border of 20%, and now this new job is going to go to that 20%, or there's going to be problems in certain units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76556	The answer of the respected representative Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Buddy, that's a good question, but what I'm familiar with and those projects that we have and we're doing, no, the answer is very clear and brief, no. What is good and what is not just highlighted here is based on these regulations that have come under this regulation, we know that a billion kuna through the ministry run by Minister Pavić is provided additionally for the "Wish", we know that through the programmes of the Ministry of Demography and together with the Ministry of Pension and Employment, etc., that an additional 300 million kuna for aunts in kindergartens is provided, etc., means direct help from such regulations, and this regulation allows for additional employment, additional creation of new values, and even a demographic measure because it is not about deadlines for what we know, 3 months and then each one can do this, can it, but this has a deadline of 24 months where from EU funds, through these programmes, many. Well, this is about hundreds, hundreds of new jobs. I'd say not incriminating but really people who need it. Here, you are also on the ground and you know very well what families are like and especially when we know what's at our offices and which group is the most vulnerable to women receiving especially over 50 years, never have many had a chance to get a job, and here is where this space opens up for these women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76558	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76559	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Šipic, I can understand the secretary of state who will defend his party chief because unfortunately he would not defend, then he would have to come here and say, acknowledge that a huge damage has been done, one of the biggest I will say openly, that as far as the damage that has been done with it, it is measurable in billions. So how much do I know a billion and a half kuna? For the wind power plant? And to me, it's even more degutant the way you presented it, that you're looking forward to the million kunas you get. Do you understand a billion and a half on one side a year, a million that enters your municipal budget that's happiness? That can't be luck. If that's how we're going to work, you're going to draw from every citizen of the Republic of Croatia and at the end of the line we didn't get a million. I find that unacceptable. Personally, as a citizen, it's unacceptable for someone to look forward to it, but in your presentation, I've seen the joy of you getting a million kunas on what? On the torture of millions of people living in the Republic of Croatia. And entrepreneurs who also pay for it. Have you looked at the amounts? Have you looked at what that amount is, how much is it taken? And then we come, when it comes to discussing the Law on Forests, the OkFSH, where 20 million kunas are taken and said: freed entrepreneurship, and here only through this you've raised for the new 500 million. And again, there will be an increase, and I can't accept that anyone can defend it and say that's good. If that were good, then every citizen would benefit from all that, and not only would individuals or certain local self-governments you have, to say that in another person's misfortune to establish themselves with them... wind parks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With these funds, we wouldn't need EU assistance to hire women for two years, but we could do it ourselves. It could be a job for our economy. It wouldn't help.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76560	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Panenić, I know you have a top psychologist in the party. But with what right, which way and how did you get it out of my context, that million kuna? And here's what we're going to say differently. Half a billion kuna has been invested in this project in our town of Trilja. They worked domestic companies, etc. So where you read that from my words I said one word of enthusiasm and jumped around the bench, on the benches, looking forward to a million kunas, and only you know, our budget isn't that big and we have the right to rejoice. Mr. Bulj knows very well because last year he and I fought to keep these areas, as you do, that these areas are moving forward. Did we have a million kunas before this? We didn't. Is joy great? It's not. Well, I mean, this is how you argue, and I said it, but I said it, so I believe and I firmly believe and could even be from my debate from my replica to see that I'm not satisfied that we have a lip or... Of course, as a leader, I wish we had xxx kuna more than what's next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And who am I and who are you to tell how the Wreath has set, who has guessed whom, who? Were you the minister? Could you spend it? You were a minister, so if you were a minister to spend, you have doubts, you have indications, you have this. Were you a minister? ... Comrade Panenich, I've listened to you. [[She'll break in on the side. You can't hear it.]] [[Let's not, let's not.]] I don't want to attack you. I'm the first one to talk to both for dialogue and for arguments. But it saddens me that you could attack me in such a way as to make me jump with joy over a million kunas. Well, we didn't have that million kuna and it's a little bit of a million kuna. Like all cities and municipalities that today have such projects as we do. You got me wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76562	Comrade Panenić, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. Which article of the Rules of Procedure was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76563	Article 238 has been injured. By his exposure he directly insulted me as an agent for, in a way, saying that Mr. Bozo Petrov, who is the president of the Independent Lists, that he was a psychologist and probably meant by that that I should be treated by my point of view. Therefore, if we need to talk about psychologists, then we should actually talk about MPs who need to take care of these words not saying them directly because they want to impose that I should perhaps be psychiatricly or psychologically skilled so that these words I said would actually have some other connotation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76564	Okay, I'm convinced that it's not so thoughtless and this, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and by the way, fellow Petrov is not a psychologist but a psychiatrist, which is a completely different thing, but good. But anyway, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bulj, you've also raised your hand that injured the Rules of Procedure, at what point?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76565	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This Regulation shall enter Col. Šipic spoke, saying, demeaning me too, mentioning here, but demeaning the whole replica, he basically said one eclutant lie because the huge damages were made to the cetin end He said this isn't damage and who are we? [[Wait, I'm sorry, you're replicating now, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] We're parliamentary agents who... What was done in the Cetina region, as far as wind power plants are concerned, it's a robbery of the century. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Reiner: Look, what you're saying is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76566	/Intruder Reiner: My colleague Bulj, I take your word for it because you abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Bulj/ I'm warning you. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76567	...to set up solar panels, and now your colleague Šipić is a Chetinian landscape, empty schools...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76568	.../Intruder Reiner: I take away your word and warn you twice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76569	...the robbery of the centuries, this... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76570	Make sure you have two warnings, Comrade Bull. I was telling you, if you'd listened, not replicated instead of hurting the Rules of Procedure, then you'd know why Don't, don't, please. [[You don't let me say anything at all, do you?]] We have a replica next. Comrade Šipić, let's not, please. The whole thing is completely pointless. You know it. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76571	Thank you, Vice President. I'll get things back on topic. As far as this regulation is concerned, health care has never been replicated before. So, often in this assembly, it's as if our memory is maybe a year, and that's not serious. The importance of this regulation, which you, esteemed counterpart Šipic, have highlighted among the other 4 regulations, as far as health activities are concerned is to enable continuity where the cleavage occurred. And we know why there's been a cleavage. Here is the esteemed State Secretary from the Ministry of Health Mr. Dulibic, and I believe he will agree with me when I say that the health resort was first of all, and there was an opportunity in this assembly, and we don't look at other cabinets without continuity. So the health resort and other resolutions are not the resolutions of one minister who is now HDZ's minister, but we look at continuity and we see continuity in development or not development. And that's a picture of the state of health. The activity that is regulated by this Regulation is very important, which is that for 600 healthcare professionals who carry out health activities on the basis of the leases now enable them to be calm by 31 December 2018, that we be calm as a competent institution and a resolution ministry and that is actually the point. And not extending that deadline, and we know why it was to do their work in private practice would also result in job losses and financial consequences, and this is about pharmacies, dental laboratories, and it's about that specialist activity. That's the point of this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76572	The answer of the respected representative Šipić, please. No, you're giving up. Okay. A fellow Bull raised his hand, please. We will now continue the debates, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, and on behalf of the SDSS Club, the honourable representative Boris Milosevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76574	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we are discussing this morning, the regulations adopted by the government, on the basis of its legal authority, to settle some issues, which are actually in the Croatian Parliament's domain, but the Croatian Parliament passed by law or, by law, by giving the government power to redecorate these issues when the Parliament does not sit. What the government needs to take into account is that these regulations are of limited duration and if we want these solutions embedded in the regulations to become permanent that they must then pass the parliamentary procedure, i.e. they must be passed under the law. I will talk about only one regulation, which was the subject of the debate, and the subject matter of the presentation, it is, it is, it is, it is, in addition, a Regulation on the Law on local officials and tenants. It is a small regulation, which contains only one regulation, but which is very important and concerns a very large number and units, and it actually concerns a very large number of people. As stated in the previous debate and the promoters have also proposed the Law on Local Servants, it provides for the possibility of receiving for a certain period of time for a maximum period of 12 months. The need to hire people on a specific and longer basis has been shown, mostly because of the implementation of the projects. The fact is that these projects existed before we joined the EU, but by entering the EU, more and more units of local self-government produced projects, they proposed project proposals to be financed from EU funds and were actually meant to employ additional labour either through experts or through those people who carry out the activities of these projects envisaged by these projects. As 576 units of local and regional (regional) self-government practice were very uneven. Well, we also had that someone was there and receiving for the service and for a certain one, so we had situations where work contracts were concluded and the work contracts were concluded, so every nearly municipality had its own policy and was trying to get by under the circumstances because the law didn't make that clear. So we had an unsettled system, an unsettled status and a different practice. This law or regulation is doing a clear detachment now, so it regulates matter works and makes a clear distinction from those we hire on the management part of the projects, so those who manage and coordinate the projects will get official status in time for the project. He will have official status to enjoy all rights and protection of local officials during the project, and this means more than 12 months. Those employed in the implementation of project activities will be contracted and will be subject to general labour regulations. But it was in practice and it was now in a large number of units, but now we have a clear law saying so and there's no doubt about it. What is essentially the same point is that since last year we have a similar arrangement in the Law on civil servants and tenants, therefore a similar provision, so we could say that we are equating both laws and laws on civil servants at the state level and at the local level are equating. We don't have statistics on employment by projects, so we have some data from local self-government units, and we'd like to say about them, and in fact, there's a way to see how important this provision that's been introduced is for a large number of people. So the mention and explanation of this Regulation and his colleagues, Šipic, when he presented on behalf of the HDZ Club, mentioned the project "Wish". So the project "Wish" until the first public call round was opened until 13.9 last year, a total of 175 project proposals were submitted within the framework of the "Learn" programme itself. 93 approved and signed project proposal for employment of 2216 women. A total of 13,608 employees were employed in the local self-government of officials and tenants on 31.12.2016. So one-six employees are actually covered, or a number of employees through the "Wish" program through 93 projects, and there are 175, which if they did a free estimate, they could say that this number will reach 50% of these 13,000 of the total number of employees. So here we don't have a distinction who's all busy in the management section, who's going to become a clerk, who's going to make a job contract, so maybe it's a good idea for the Ministry of Administration to take care of it so that when it comes to drawing a line and when we might have a debate about the law because this regulation is going to have to be implemented through the law, we might also have statistics on how many employees are employed and how much work contracts are actually concluded. And what's also in the debate is important that local budgets are not burdened because in fact all their salaries are financed from eu funds. When there was a debate on the Law on civil servants, it is also important to note that everyone welcomed this solution and the law was voted unanimously. And I can also praise this solution, I think it's very good. I can only say why we waited so long, why we waited for more than five years to be members or members of the EU without trying to find a solution and edit this matter. This solution protects the entire official system. Why am I saying that? I would like to point out a few things about this, so although very often it is said about reforming the service system very often, it should actually be abolished or that we should apply general rules on work, that officials should enter into labour contracts. I'm not against such a solution in principle. The fact is that official legislation is not part of the EU acquis, and we have the freedom to regulate the service system as we wish, but what is important to point out is that the European Commission is asking countries to have a regulated or separate labour market set aside from the rest of the service, leaving the service, protecting officials from the political nomenclature. So, all that actually contains the Law on Civil Servants, including the Law on Officials at local level. So I think that there's actually almost, when we compare all these institutes, which should actually be re-installed or the Labour Act or some special law, it actually comes to the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76575	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Ministry representatives. We are talking about 2 reports adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of its legal authority, and not at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, when certain laws were to be intervened which should in some way have been corrected to avoid certain things or adverse situations that could have not been changed. And we have meaning here 5 regulations, or 4 regulations, that we can analyze one by one. But what the Club of Representatives of the SDP disagrees with is that because of me, I would say, certain failures, inactions within this legal provision and the powers that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to do with all that we have forgotten and what needs to be done at that moment. And sometimes it gets the impression that individual ministries may not deliberately remove certain things that need to be removed in order to avoid public debate. Here, for example, this regulation, which is related to renewable energy sources, has caused a certain debate, we do not run away from this debate, but it is the impression that by entering the HNS government, i.e. Ivan Vrdoljak, it was not possible to potential for certain debates in the Croatian Parliament, in order to go below the grain, because this, as it would say, is out of public reach, because, as he would say, there was the HNS, i.e. Ivan Vrdoljak, responsible for energy policy for many years. There have been some disagreements with the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, and then, not to discuss in the Parliament and the public not to open a public debate, it settles at government meetings and then, the whole debate comes down to 1 or 2 replicas held here by parliamentary deputies. Or, on the other hand, when you see a regulation that has been amended and complemented by the Capital Market Act, which seems more like a law than an amendment to the law, which is de facto, I said already in my debate, contained 90% of the laws in the Croatian Parliament have fewer amendments than this Regulation has with 8 articles and with very important things that are changing, and in line with certain regulations of the European Commission and of the European Parliament and of the Council. For example, from 2014 or 2012 we were able to deal with both 2016 and 2017, and no matter what almost the applicants here said the laws were in preparation, this does not mean that this could not have been done in the past, regardless of the scope of the law and no matter how much the law was amended. And I said it myself, and that's confirmed by the secretary of state, the changes in this regulation are not only technical but also very important. So, if it is a matter of reporting on the work of investment companies, if this is now made mandatory by our barrel, rather than by the stock market in the Member States, then it is very important for our investors in the Republic of Croatia and for informing people, because it even foresees within what time period the stock market is obliged to do something. So it's not just things that are a matter of date, a matter of moment, a matter of time or how we usually want to say, technical things, I would ask you, sir, if you could just a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76577	My colleagues and colleagues, let's just please keep it down a notch so my colleague Maras can hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76578	This is the usual time when the jam gets bigger, because it's approaching 12 hours, but I'd like to ask you to wait a little longer. So this is not just technical stuff and this is not just the installation of certain I would say technicality in the law, which we could do without debate in the Croatian Parliament, these are very important things and this should not be done in this way. And we're against it, and that's why we're going to, in particular, be restrained about these amendments to the regulations, because what, one thing is when something happens, that moment has to happen, and the other thing is when you have a situation, when you can do a year, two, three, certain things, and you don't do them. And then you propose a regulation that has eight articles and that has a lot to do with it. which then essentially changes the law. [[Intruder Reiner: Fellows and colleagues, please, let's just keep it down a little bit so that fellow Maras can normally finish his presentation, please.]] So, let's also say this situation, mentioned by my colleague Ramljak, does not exactly explain that it refers specifically to this number of scientific recruits who have been in a particular programme, which is called in general, I do not know now a specific situation which is and will be applied to, but the fact is that in this way not only for this group but also for others we allow to continue working for a certain time indefinitely. So even after 3 years, 6 years and over a longer period, and in the very proposal and explanation of the regulation, it is said that Croatia has the smallest number of employees in the higher education system compared to the number of residents and the number of students indefinitely compared to all EU countries and that we are quite at the bottom and instead of showing that we want to invest there, that people may be attracted in this way by some who are in these projects to remain undefined and stimulated not to leave Croatia, we are sending a completely wrong message to me, regardless of whether it is a single problem then the law can be changed, or in the law should be specified exactly in the regulation, it should be specified what it refers to and for others I would not leave the possibility that, after 3 years, the contract can be changed indefinitely or extended for a certain time. As for health care, there is, I hope this claim made by the ministry that the law will be addressed very quickly, I hope that it is true or that it will be realised because I think 600 people do not deserve to wait a year for a year and that in some ways they tremble and do not know what will happen to them, this problem has to be solved by the amendments to the law and I hope that it will be within the time limit. And as for employment in local self-government units, unfortunately, it is often under European projects, certain things that have to be done in essence to be absolutely clear, to use this for further employment and to involve one more piece of people in the public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76579	Comrades and colleagues, please be quiet so that colleague Maras can speak normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76580	Vice President, I can interrupt and proceed after the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76581	Of course you're going to say what you're going to say, I'm asking my colleagues again to die, let's not really look like an elementary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76582	But how am I supposed to speak now, look what's the marble? Thank you very much. So here to finish the debate, unfortunately sometimes European funds are used to attract additional people to the public sector, and here is a colleague from the Ministry of State Administration who said that people should even be hired for project leaders. So that's amazing to me, if some local self-government unit is preparing a project...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76583	My colleagues and colleagues, please, calm down, come on, be patient until the vote comes, let's listen to what the honourable representative Maras wants to say, please. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it is amazing that units of local self-government are trying to explain that both the ministry and the project manager who have been prepared from European funds have no persons who could adequately manage these projects but are left with the possibility that additional people should be employed in this way. I am not talking about business that is increasing the scope of these projects or perhaps some people with whom the units of local self-government do not have, but this provision seems to allow me to further employ and fellow Milosevic has said well, our citizens have the feeling that the unit of local self-government is too, that the county is too much, that the employed too many people, that this sector is too bulky and maybe it's a reform that should be initiated among the first, except of course, the worst possible part of our own self-government would say, the whole system where people don't feel justice, where we see certain processes falling apart, that certain charges are not being solved. For example, here in Zagreb for 2 and a few years there is still no process of about 10 points that the attorney's office has raised against Bandic, but if someone caught you having no ticket on the tram, they would probably end up with a fine and a charge and pay the fine very quickly. So that the judiciary or in this case just before I spoke to the units of local self-government, the citizens expect these reforms and do not expect the reforms announced by the HDZ government or Andrej Plenkovic and refers to those of our older citizens who are now either waiting or are already retired and it is amazing that everyone trembles at what the Government of Andrej Plenkovic will propose at the end of this year and where it will be necessary for people to work until the end because the sanctions for early retirement will be such that they will all work practically until the end and the message will be that they can not directly enjoy a pension while the pension is very difficult, as the amount in the Republic of Croatia can enjoy, they can go to the cemetery. So on that side, I call you here as Government not to send these regulations in the future especially when they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76585	Please let us calm down so that colleague Maras can speak normally. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76586	Here I have a proposal, Mr. Vice President, to put in a future vote either before or at the end of the debate. I mean, this is simply impossible because it's impossible to always discuss around 12 o'clock, there's an indescribable noise because some MPs come here just to vote and then go to their homes and people who would like to debate then have no chance of having a normal debate. I ask you to respect this and that in future it is a practice to vote either before or at the end of the debate on Fridays because this is a half debate that is impossible to conduct a quality debate. And to conclude, the SDP Representatives' Club will be abstentioned under these regulations, I have said for which reasons and I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the majority who supports this government to be denigrated and to try to avoid such regulations in the future. So regulations that have more content than 90% of the law I don't think should be adopted outside the public debate beyond the usual procedure, past the debate between citizens and past the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76587	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Maria Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76588	Comrade Maras, in your debate, you mentioned European projects and employment, of course, to the institutions because of the size of the job. Of course, new employment and the increase of employees in the sector are justified in these situations. However, when we talk about the public sector and employment, we were able to see recently in the media a good analysis of how the government of Zoran Milanovic at the time reduced the number of public sector employees. And we saw that in 2015, from 2015 to 2018, several thousand people increased the number of public sector employees. I'm sure we're not talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76589	Please, let's just shut up a little bit so counterpart Habek can say what he wants to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76590	We are certainly not talking about employment that was necessary but certainly about another type of employment of similar people. When we talk about abolishing the county and the municipalities, then in our government HDZ was very bitter that we didn't do it. Here they have had a chance for two, three years to also set out to reduce the number of municipalities and cities. You know what it's like, you can just not in my backyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76591	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76592	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76593	Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Habek said what I warned you about, if employment opportunities are opened for all jobs then our citizens usually assume that it will be used to employ people who may not and on the other hand in local self-government units there is one good part of the people who can do it. And once again I'm going to say it's amazing that the project manager is also looking for an opportunity as if, in the preparation of the project itself, not the unit of local self-government predicted who it could be and how it could be doing the job. So it's not good, it's not good that it opens up the possibility of speculation, that it will be used to further increase the public administration that our citizens think is too big anyway. And here I call once again not to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76595	Thank you very much. Here we all welcome together the students of the Italian primary school Galileo Galileo of Umag who came to watch us at the gallery. We will continue with the last club of MPs and this is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak, and then we will join the vote to finish with the clubs and then we will go to individual debates. [[Applause.]] Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76596	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we were able to listen to what was done today while we were gone while we were on more or less deserved vacation. What I personally have to refer to is primarily in the regulation that regulates the purchase of renewable electricity, created by renewable energy sources, where it is actually left at a regulated price, and with this continues the torment that has been created by whom? It was created by Milanovic's then government and Minister Vrdoljak and let's start from that moment on, to explain, in fact, one more time what will happen. It will happen that this compensation that the current government has increased, where I'm going to agree, wasn't too much of a maneuver, could be spoken to more renewable energy producers, looking for a compromise solution, looking for a way to make it less burdensome. But the result was that we raised from 3.5 to 10 June, thus increasing citizens' accounts 20 kuna per month and behind it stands the ruling coalition and believes that this is the solution. With this half-solve, where we have timed the adjustment to the market conditions of business, where electricity from renewable energy sources would come into the market. Where it would appear, that energy is significantly less valuable in that market. Then there would be an even bigger gap, there would be an even greater commitment to CROTE, not that HROT's obligation to correct there I will correct, the colleagues who spoke about it, did not perform anything at his will, CROTE was implementing, according to the Law adopted by the Government. According to the draft law, which the then Ministry of Economy, which was responsible for energy, then also referred to the procedure, with which the issues for renewable energy sources were significantly greater than the possibilities and what it communicated to Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. The finance ministry made one concession, reduced the electricity tax from 25% to 13%. That's a little balanced somewhere. But what next? Which is next... Next, actually the position we're going to defend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Secretary of State said we will have changes, additions or a new law on renewable energy sources. He said that in the future it would be better, but we're pulling past time, the time when obligations and these obligations were made, how are we going to pass on to those who need to pay? That's a question we didn't get. It was not a question regulated by this Regulation. This regulation is just said, we're gonna put it off a little bit. I ask you the same gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, the CNS and the others who support it, we'll leave it for next year, we'll say in 2019, here, now it still has to be paid or you'll leave it for 2020? Whatever year you choose, it's gonna be hard. Because I can't understand at all that someone is going and defending the position that was created then. And I understand that renewable energy sources are needed and that we need it in view of the price of energy created to provide certain support. But we all have to make it clear that the support that was provided back then, it was excessive, it provided significant profits to those who invested, the largest share of it has wind power plants. They at least contributed to the Croatian economy. The fact that a construction company may have created a foundation or perhaps an engineer is employed so that if it were maintained, it is incomparably incomparable with what would have been the effects of any other form, mass or other sources of renewable energy, microsolars that would have helped much wider categories of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. That's not what the worry was about, and now let's not defend the actions of Minister Vrdoljak at the time. I know he's now president of the coalition partner, but that doesn't mean that with that act, which he entered into this government, he stopped being responsible for what he did, because that responsibility has a price. Because that price, which is, won't say either HDZ or HNS or any of these, we'll pay the politicians. No, you will find only 1 model, which will be passed on to Croatian citizens again. And this is waiting for us, and we won't be able to ignore that we have to release trade and energy coming from renewables and then clear its price. We can go a little bit further. What if the commission puts pressure on it, then what will the Ministry say? Then we'll say, overnight, it's from a long time ago, we have to pay. And that's why I said it here and it was clear, I can't accept that the Secretary of State who doesn't have it had nothing to do with it at the time, who can't resolve his decision now, that he's going to defend it. Because Minister Coric missed the opportunity, after both Minister Dobrovic and Secretary of State Cikotic set out with initiatives towards renewable energy producers, to find a solution that will be sustainable, which will not hit Croatian citizens at once, to look for a model that can be acceptable. There were also threats, and we accept that and that there will also be excise duties on certain sources and it is clear that these producers, these investors, have filed certain lawsuits, but fellow MPs and MPs, as long as we have the view that every contract that was once signed should be consumed exactly as it is. I understand legal obligations. But if you explain to me that all contracts signed should be implemented in the original, then I'll ask what about MOL's obligations when he entered the INA. Why we weren't there to get rid of and say, "Don't spend it, all and one item." Why haven't all these investments been made? Then, the easiest thing to do is to avoid these obligations that pressure our citizens, to say, is to be consistent there, it's a commitment that we can't avoid, it's a commitment that will be passed on to the citizens and then your anger when we talk here when we take breaks, angry with you when we have bridges, walls and others, so it should, and it will be like that and always someone will feel damaged. There may not be a MOST, there won't be a Living Wall or anyone else, but there will be someone new. The HSS will then have to get up and say and we're fighting it. Here's a smile, but it's actually tragic in all of this, the topic we're talking about is actually at a time when the Parliament couldn't discuss was being resolved exactly the same and the key issue. And also the increase in compensation for renewables when it came to, at the government's session during the summer break, avoidance, systematic avoidance of topics as well as now that we have avoidance of economic development, economic development indicators, the establishment of the Istanbul Convention as a priority of Croatian society, it will not improve the life we have here because we will not provide citizens, and this is the first thing that I can provide financially, home, that home that will be burdened. Because I'm saying, it was a billion, with this increase somewhere a billion and a half, the secretary of state can correct me if we want to increase by half a billion. And then we'll argue that there's going to be a reduction in the register of non-taxable donations taken over by the Ministry of Economy. What reduction? We're going to cut a million here, 2 million there, 20 million on the OCFSH, and so, and here we're going to increase half a billion once, and half a billion once again, how are you going to explain that? How are you going to say as government entrepreneurs we have reduced your parafiscal donations, how are you going to explain this to the citizens? Me too. So it's a small number of people who have had a concrete benefit from it. A small number of those who have such an object, an energy facility from which they can receive certain fees, and of course there was a colleague who was clear, to them very much means that million in the budget, and should mean and everyone should have income from what is happening in his field. But we must be aware that it cannot be harmful, at the expense of Croatian citizens. You can't be tossing it out of something that's imposed. I can understand that we have income from something that we have incomed, something from which we have created new added value, something that has gained in that position, something that does not burden anyone because if all entrepreneurs created exclusively projects, investments that would burden Croatian citizens, and other Croatian entrepreneurs to build their own company, then we would have the wrong concept and we must be clear there. We cannot ignore that it existed, we cannot ignore that this regulation solves only a time gap but we need to be clear that we need to find a consensus. I was asked as the Minister of Economy who came in 2016, why I didn't change it and it's good to ask, because when I came in early 2016, only then did we have insight into the chaos that had arisen. Only then could we see what was going on believe me that all that data, who was talking about them here? Who warned about those billions? No, it was silent about it, it was hiding, when we collected the data, but most of the people who said that this government would no longer survive, so they brought down the government, how are you going to change without changing the law? And I would have changed the law on renewable energy sources if I'd had the chance, I didn't have the chance. What are the reasons that don't matter at all, but if someone were to transfer to me if I had the chance as Minister of Economy, I didn't have the chance, if I had the right opportunity, this would have been settled, and it wouldn't have been solved in a way that I'd just say it was our commitment, we're sorry, but we're just going to move it, we're going to charge it, and then we're going to wait for the right moment. Therefore, an open question to ask, when this regulation will cease to apply, when the new law will adopt a solution, whether this solution will benefit Croatian citizens, whether they are forced to impose a new legal solution, well not, whether the old ones will be distributed in a new way to our citizens and entrepreneurs, we did not get that answer. We only got it, we got it. It didn't happen today, it didn't solve this government now, and it's happening to us all the time. Every law, every decision is difficult, there is not a single bill that is simple, there is not one that will be very populist regardless of all intents and avoidance of decision making has become the decision of this government. And this is a classic example, this is a difficult decision, for this is a responsibility and a political one. I would also give the same support here on behalf of my club if we clearly identify who has led to this situation, then we will say we are looking for a real consensus all together, let's support such a permanent solution and let's tell the citizens we're sorry, we're a political gathering that we can simply now solve another problem but don't second time that such people enter you into the government, don't be people who will get trust because they've once done damage, they have their own name and name, they don't need to be HNS as a party but they have people who are in the name of the government, on behalf of those who named them, they prepared it, they also agreed that this distance is the one that is responsible, I think it's one of the bigger crap that can be commented. The laws are passed and proposed, the drafts produced by the ministry, the government adopts the proposal, the Croatian Parliament also makes its plenary sessions decisions and bear the responsibility of all those who voted for it, but of course the understanding of projections of future commitments is sometimes very difficult because we now have no impact assessments. He was getting laws here where the financial effects that will be in the future don't prove right. And everyone systematically avoids that very document and I keep looking for it. I want to see every document, especially economic laws, to see what their impact will be in future time. What will have an impact on the Croatian budget, I think Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs are least interested. They least want to hear about it, they want to know what the quality of life will be, and what's going to be a million, two, 100 million more or less in the budget, I think it's the least they care about, and the least they want to make up for taxes and other impositions on what hasn't solved politics or what caused politics in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76597	Thank you, too. Thank you very much, and now we're going back to the agenda. Now let's go to the replicas. We have 7 replicas reported. First up, Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The other Nikola Grmoy. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Third Zeljko Lenart. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The fourth, respected colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76599	... In view of the above, today, after discussing several false things, I am obliged to state only the facts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, when we talk about the quotas for wind power plants, concrete data are as follows: in the term of office of Minister Ivan Vrdoljak from the 1200 megawatt action plan, the contracts were reduced first to 400, i.e. the contract was signed and there were 744 megawatts. So there's been a decrease. The current same people accused him of wanting to do drilling and oil as obsolete, of investing in renewable energy sources. When it was done, it was reduced, they accused him of favoring an oil lobby. Now, same thing, he's being accused of being affected by those renewable energy producers. By reducing what he did in his 3-year term, it was reduced from 21 billion, reducing the cost of citizens to 14. The fee is increased by 0.5 or 50 limes, 0.5... Lip. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there were increases then, but the total of them decreased the price of electricity by 10%. That's the facts. I don't remember the last time some minister made that his mandate reduced the entire electricity total, and the result of the work, that's all in a term of three years, the result of work in a year and a half can be reduced to one simple symbol, and that's a crossed zero, or empty set. In a year and a half, nothing absolutely did everything they said and what was even more tragic, changed plans, changed projects, so now the LNG terminal is no longer on land, on-shore, but was off-shore, on the proposal of Minister Panenic, to now be strange, look six months later and it was bad. I think it's clear to everyone what kind of politics this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76600	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the God of Petrov. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Individual debates. We're moving on to them. The first is the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And the next individual debate is the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76601	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, Secretary of State Miletic. So the government for the second time, now if I'm right please... follow, so for the second time we're postponing for another year of buy-in so-called. The green energy that has been defined by the law adopted by this House means we've been putting it off for two years. Two years consecutively delaying the application of the law adopted by this House. Point. Let's move on. What it's just about, let me get this straight. So in the Republic of Croatia during January 2018, a total of approximately 19% of the so-called 19th century was produced. and green energy from total energy consumption. All energy produced from privileged manufacturers managed by CROTE is transferred to the energy system of the Republic of Croatia. I hope we agree on that. So suppliers are obliged to take over and deliver that energy to end-users and we can agree with that, and the ransom price is guaranteed at 0.42 kuna per kilowatt hour. Be careful, the market price at which energy can be obtained is often lower or significantly lower than that, these are facts. The average price on the spot market... for January was 0.27 kuna per kilowatt hour, which is 30% lower than the price imposed. That's a fact. So we have state interventionism, the state intervened in market relations brutally in a way that 20% of energy is supplied at a higher price than that same price is sold to the end-user. I'm sorry, but there's really no economic logic here, so maybe we should look for logic somewhere else. So this is about significant multimillion-dollar costs, gentlemen, which for privileged producers, I repeat, which for privileged producers are borne by all other participants. There are... there are suppliers and, of course, end users. The state has literally imposed a targeted regulation on the entrepreneur to literally say something for two sales for one, which is total absurd. The losses are suffered by the private sector that is clear, but the worst we lose and we mean our national electricity industry which is actually a market share of about 87% if I'm management. And this whole thing isn't enough, so the government has raised the green so-called compensation since 1.9.2017. Green energy from 3.5 lip to 10.5 lip. Now I'm going to say so because there's no other expression, the pockets of those wind power plants at the same time full of both suppliers and citizens. It's a fact, it's true, and we really all have to ask ourselves whose interest this is. There's no politics here, I'm trying really rationally to discuss every topic, and especially what's an extraordinary problem and which is ultimately not fair. The argument that you state and justify these relations on the market, if you can even call this a market that there's no money missing for HROT. It can't be a reason or an explanation, it just can't be, so we need to get out of this relationship that's really unnatural and incorrect. This destroys the liberalised energy market resulting from this liberalisation of market energy 30% power cuts and that's good what happened. And we now want these market relations and insist on destroying with such a relationship that is brutally unfair. Finally, our constitutional power to pass the final laws that we regulate both economic and legal and political relations is bound by Article 2(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Do you know that there are almost certain consequences of violations of EU law and national rights if, due to the interpretation of this regulation and these relations that are currently in control and the damage can be much greater than letting a liberalised market be the way it should be. And I really need to think about it, and I will personally, as a parliamentary representative, come out very quickly with a concrete proposal that this privileged position of the manufacturer comes to mind within the framework of a correct relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76602	Thank you very much. Do any of the promoters want a final word? Yeah. State Secretary Mr Ivo Milatić:
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76603	... say a few words to everything that is stated here, first of all to the presentation of Mr Maras and the Club of Representatives of the SDP where the situation simply implies that we as the Government are hiding something that the former minister of Vrdoljak was doing and that I was bringing it to my will. [[Specially enabled.]] I would just draw his attention that he was sitting in that government that passed the law, too, if the law had been passed by most of the people he was sitting in. And I would point out that at the end of 2014, Minister Vrdoljak proposed as a resolute minister for the government's adoption of this law, according to the then tariff model, this regulated price was 53 June, suggested that the price be 42 June, and it was solemnly signed in the presence of the Prime Minister Vrdoljak and SDP President Mr Zoran Milanovic on this you have data on the government portal. As for the Bridge's remark that we're giving around a billion and a half kuna to someone, it's like we're giving a billion and a half kuna to someone, and that someone didn't do anything for a billion and a half kuna. I mean, for the sake of citizens, it's not smart and it's not polite to talk like that. The fact is that out of these billions and a half kuna, it's always somewhere 40% is what citizens pay through the compensation for renewable energy sources, and the rest is what we're talking about, a regulated purchase of electricity. My minister, Mr Tomislav Coric, has been called here many times, completely unwarranted, so that he should present something here and clearly that according to the law he can exhibit and also the government has authorized us as part of his ministry to present. I would only point out that, as far as the energy area is concerned for a year and a half, it means from 1.1.2016 to 30.6. 2017, only 1 law was passed, the Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act, for which the Republic of Croatia managed to obtain and violate the right to that law in July last year. So, the entry into office of Minister Coric, just to point out, so far, two laws have been passed, the Law on the Agency of Hydrocarbons and the Gas Market Act, with which we have abolished all the injuries we have suffered. 2 first readings have been done, it is the CEI Act and as far as I see it, the President of the Parliament has included a second reading, i.e., the Final Proposal of the CEI Act and the Law on Hydrocarbons, which will almost be. Four laws are in preparation, four laws are being prepared for public debate, so in this quarter, next quarter, we will prepare three more laws, meaning so much of Minister Coric's activity. So Minister Coric is active, so much he can't be more active. Minister Coric also proposes in this respected home laws by priority. And priorities are rights violations and pilots. To take care of the same citizens, to settle the first legal regulations that remove injuries and pilots. As far as the law on renewable energy sources is concerned, we are absolutely in line with the directives and with all EU regulations. So we don't have any injuries or any pilots there. We just promised each other, so as far as Parliament's representatives and the government are concerned, that the Law on Renewable Sources of Energy should be complemented, changed and what is being said here, put into a situation to be even better than it is today. What I would like to mention to you, Honorable Parliamentarian Orepić in terms of these 42 June, you must understand one thing. If not forging a new provision, the burden should be borne in the principle of Croatian citizens. Of course, it's not our idea or our wish at all, nor do you want it, nor does the government want it. The fact that suppliers who pay that price do make good profits and it's a pretty big profit. It means that they have submitted this burden in a way that you yourself said in your presentation that the Croatian state, and that this esteemed House with the adoption of such laws, has actually consciously signalled to the biggest supplier, which is HEP, which 80 percent supplies to the Croatian state, to practically bear the burden. So it's up to us to do what we do in future legal decisions. What will be certain, and that is what the law already says, is the ultimate goal of this ministry and this government that this energy through the stock market that already exists, through the education of people... which are highly educated for this, gradually placing it on the market to ultimately be in the market regime, as it will eventually be in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us, through a public debate, through the opinions of the authorities of the competent ministries and all others including you MPs clearly, because the public debate will be public, we will come to a real legal solution, in which way we will, in future, amend and supplement the law, decide that this will be sustainable and that it will continue to work. What I can tell you here on behalf of the ministry, which is that surely the future model that in encouraging renewable energy will not be so-called. The feedeng model, rather than others, will in principle be a premium model, and as it will be, let it be crystallized in the proposal and such a proposal will eventually be accepted, will eventually come to a vote in this House. There, as far as we're concerned, as the promoter and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So this is definitely about the ministry and Minister Tomislav Coric. The last time we proposed this regulation to the Government, because we were physically simply unable to pass the law before that deadline and clearly we had to make the regulation, and by the end of the year the law would be passed and there would be no need since the regulation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76604	Thank you very much, we have one replica, a respected representative of Vlaha Orepić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76605	So I'm aware of the role of suppliers and everything, but I want to raise awareness of the fact that manufacturers have, especially with the vertroelectric power plants, right, have hyperprofits at this point, don't even participate in, the whole series now that I'm not burdening the whole set here. So they have a preferential price, which if we went out with that energy on the stock market, is simply the same amount of energy, which is not negligible to the system, that's 20% of that energy about whether we have to pay more expensive. And it's very important to intervene in that direction. And the law that has been passed, this House has adopted 2, 2 years in a row, its observation, which correctly regulates these relations. And as for the loss towards citizens, you're probably familiar with, let's say that at 2016, HEP lost 220 million kuna. So literally 220 million kuna, due to the participation in the buy-in market, etc. and energy at that price. These are living problems. I'm not getting into whether the minister has a good intention, I believe he does, to do a job. All right, but that's something we need to get rid of in a hurry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76606	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76607	Thank you very much, they may have lost what you say, but they've been parallel to 150 million kunas of compensation for their cogeneration facility. And just because HEP was decent, he suffered non-payment because of the unhappiness of our predecessors. We were simply in a situation that we had to make a decision that was not easy to raise the price, i.e. to raise the fee. And we failed, the HROTE suffered no damage for the reason that HEP was the one who filed the burden of default while these payments are now being paid neatly from the manual. That's the whole situation. And as for those companies that, in your opinion, generate extra profits, these are primarily companies that registered in the Republic of Croatia, pay all taxes and contributions to the Republic of Croatia, they pay the costs of balancing and according to the law you are talking about, which we will apply clearly and will finally pay and participate in the Eco-balance sheet group where their participation in this cost-effectiveness will clearly increase. But the simple situation is, we have the law, we have the contests, we have the contracts. It would be irresponsible by our ministry to force us to change something that cannot be changed and clear that we bring on ourselves lawsuits and potential penalties for the Republic of Croatia and the simple situation is as it is and it is developing in this direction in a way that it has its own lifetime and it will already practically experience its peak in 2020 and then it is going downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76608	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this united point and we will vote when the conditions are met. And just to remind you again, I'll see you Tuesday at 9.30. The first point of the proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis for the EU for 2018. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 14.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-16-0.u76609	We're going to other points now. Report on regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 99 for, 5 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with the session, we continue with the work. The first point today is the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2018. First call from a colleague, Glasnović. Here you go.
