ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66910	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Most Independent Lists, a pause on the privatisation of Dinam.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66911	Thank you. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66912	I'm looking for a break on education and education programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66913	Thank you. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66914	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break in privatization to Dinam, that there is no sale of Zagreb's sanctity and what the Zagrebs are bound to emotionally, one narrow circle of people, or an individual who has been using it for decades, I would say for decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66915	A colleague, Son.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66916	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I'm looking for a break on the subject of a strike in Dalekvod.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66917	I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66918	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the club Glas and HSU I request a 10 minute break to discuss the latest information related to the installation of elevators in multi-story residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66919	Is anyone else picking up? If not, we have a break by 9.50. [[It's 9:00.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, the first is the respected colleague Marko Sladolev on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66921	Thank you, Mr. President. Here are Dinam fans through their history led different battles, the first battle was during the communist regime when Dinam fan was characterized as a Croatian nationalist and fighter for Croatian freedom and when you went to the game, in any part of Yugoslavia if you were a Dinam fan, you knew that you were a Croatian and a fighter for Croatian independence. That's the battle they won. The second battle was in the Homeland War when cheerleading groups first set out for the Homeland War and won that battle. The third battle was when they fought for the holy name of Dinamo, who had another name imposed, and that's where they won the battle. The fourth battle is a battle for the democratic Dinamo that is currently going on. What's this about? It is done that the current administration, or assembly itself, has chosen, to reshape Dinam i.e. Privatizing Dinam and I think it's an illegal assembly because they chose themselves. What's even more ridiculous is that there are people in that congregation who have confirmed charges. And that the right of the first ransom has a city where the head is also a man with a confirmed indictment. It's a diabolical system, so it's about Dinamo being in heavy financial losses and that its value is getting lower and lower and giving someone purposely destroying NK Dinamo to sell it for cheap money and thus get himself money. Dinam fans are an apolitical group, and that's the way to stay. With us politicians and who understand this story and who are part of this story, they expect support. This way I tell you that Dinamo will not be privatized, that Dinamo should call the elections according to principle one member, one vote, that fans should decide in which way Dinamo will be reshaped and that we start a new story and here is the sacred one that is not sold and this is the way I say you will not sell Dinamo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66922	We are going to another debate, Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia, a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66923	Dear colleagues, here, education and education is not the same as education, you can have an intelligence like Einstein, and mind as a moral freak, it's not the same. And so with education and education, it's not the same thing. As this new cultural revolution began, the sexual revolution, I mentioned a few days ago the Frankfurt school of sociology, and the cause of all our problems today lies in that organization that was formed after the Bolshevik revolution, when they saw Bolshevik Satanists fail the revolution, they failed in Poland, Hungary, Germany, then they created one group of intellectuals and one of the founders of that organization was called William Mustenberg, this is going to be so corrupted by the West that it's going to stink, it's going to violate the countries inside and it's happening today, it's cultural pollution and I would say that scientific paganism based on destructive ideology, on pansexualism, on those pseudo-fried foundations that have no scientific foundations. It continued in the '60s, we know Woodstock, sex, comrades and rock'n'roll, came AIDS, AIDS, heroin, and what do we have today? We have a declaration of sexual rights today. The first declaration was signed at the 14th World Sex Congress, accepted in Hong Kong, '99. A year. The 17th World Sex Congress ratified in Montreal in July 2005. Today it continues, this destructive ideology, here I'm just going to read you articles 4 and 10 from that declaration. The right to sexual equality refers to freedom from all kinds of discrimination regardless of sex, gender, sexual orientation, age, race, social class, faith, physical or emotional diversity. Age, what does that mean, age? Children are already in Canada from 5.6 years of age, and the sexualization of these children begins. You say that a girl, and you're a boy, parents have neither the right nor the right to raise their children. Now in Canada, the term father and mother is lifted. It's coming here. We remember Stulhofer and other characters, it opens the door for paedophiles and other things. What's going on? Here, these associations that work are networked, they're digging against the Croatian state, I'm just going to read some, they're here. The European transgender network international lesbian and gay association, the civil coalition Stop Risk Sexual Education, of course Platform 112, who pays for it all, pays our tax, RECOM, commission regional to determine the facts of war. Someone else is writing us war history. Here, trans network of the Balkans etc. Who are the donors? European Union, Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, City of Zagreb, City Office for Social Protection, Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Policy, etc. Here. We pay to kill ourselves easily. I will mention only after one gay parade in Zagreb proudly led by Šime Lučin, after that parade were shared by the manuals that funded, they funded this manual for anal sex, the Association of Defences of the City of Zagreb, what are we talking about? Like this, a philosopher said a long time ago if a man willingly becomes a sheep, he finds a wolf who eats him. It's all coming to us. If we don't wake up. We must rid ourselves of the greatest sin of this century and of time, which is indifference and it is destructive indifference because we have already allowed the Yugoslavs to lead the state, that history is written by the Serbian Orthodox Church and what we have to ask for more. And now, this ideology... And here we are now to the Istanbul Convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You wonder when you'll vote for that convention that brings it here. Type on the Internet, type this in: Gay parade plus kids. You'll see what's going on, it's coming here. There's a new totalitarianism coming that's more dangerous than the former.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66924	We're going to a third debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, SDP's representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66925	... Today we want to warn about one thing here and give support to Zagreb and Zagreb women in order to preserve what is the value of the city of Zagreb, which is the root of the city of Zagreb, in the genes of the city of Zagreb, which is the Zagreb Football Club Dinamo for which most people, the large majority of people in the city of Zagreb, say that they are immediately beginning to run blue blood with veins and on this side we have to warn everyone responsible here, and in particular ask the city's assembly and mayor of Zagreb to stop selling the club to one person who has been taking advantage of it for years and I would say for decades. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] As you know, according to the Sport Act, privatisation has been initiated. The city of Zagreb can decide what it will do, it can be included, and it does not have to be included. We are here warning of a possibility that is very likely, given the close ones, I would say brotherly relations between Mr. Mamić and Mr. Bandic, that it is possible that Milan Bandić will leave the possibility that Mamic and that society that sits in Dinam, which chooses itself, one chooses the administration, the other chooses the assembly, means those 50 people who choose themselves, to eventually assume the value that I said was built into the city of Zagreb, or the root city of Zagreb. On this side, it is too valuable and it must not be allowed, and I here warn Milan Bandic, I warn the city's assembly, if this happens, that many in Zagreb, not many, but very probably the vast majority of Zagreb and Zagrebs against it will raise not only a voice, but will openly and oppose it. On the other hand, we support the Fans' Association that launched the action today and shared flyers in front of the City Assembly, we support all those who want Dinamo to stay away from the people. So, to keep it a fan club, the club of those who cheer for it and who love it, and to create a model by which Dinamo would function in the same way as the world's largest clubs do. That fans who pay for either an annual ticket or a membership at the Fan Club can choose who will lead the club. If Barcelona can, if real Madrid can, we can't see why Dinamo can't. What scares us is that although some people are not declarative about this leadership in Dinam, regarding political parties, Zdravko Mamić is a finger and finger for many years with HDZ and if you remember the scene where he proudly jumped out of the audience at the HDZ General Assembly, where he donated HDZ and was a faithful and very good friend with Mrs Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. So Zdravko Mamić has HDZ support and that is what we must warn here as well. This must not be allowed, I said, Dinamo is Zagreb, Dinamo is of all citizens and not just from Zagreb, Dinamo is Croatian. The vast majority of people across the Republic are rooting for this club and I don't think we should let one person get the property of that club in the end, especially because that person is highly suspected of the crime that we've been following from day to day. Something that is social, something that has been built as a value for years, that we are emotionally bound by most of us living in Zagreb, remember games, remember these moments as something special in our lives, we do not want to lose ourselves and go to a man who wants to privatize it now. So once again messages to Bandic and the City Assembly, You're responsible for stopping it. [[Intruder Jandroković: Time, thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66926	We are going to the 4th debate, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66927	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I took this break to talk about a long-distance strike that's been going on for about seven days and that's under media censorship, or enough information hasn't gone public. First of all, at the beginning of this break, I would like to invite the Commissioner, the special government commissioner for Agrokor Fabris Peruska, to be seen as a strike in Dalekvod. Why? Because he owns the Dalekvode right now, Agrokor. So, just like that, Dalekovod production d.o.o. All ownership shares have Dalekovod d.d. Share company, and 60% shares of the company Dalekovod d.d. He holds a consultant, which is part of the Agrokor concert and where an extraordinary Commissioner of Perusko is registered in a commercial court, and sometimes Mr Ramljak. Incidentally or not, the seat of Dalekvoda d.d. is in the street Marijana Čavića 4 and Agrokora Marijana Čavića number 1 respectively, vice versa. Like I said, the situation in Dalekvod is not good. As early as 2010, workers had to agree to a 30% wage reduction and are now required to agree to so many reductions. The uncertain future of 580 workers working for the Dalekovod production, these days are listed machines, workers with 4.5 thousand kuna want to put on 3 to 3.5 thousand kuna. A huge key job with the Norwegians has been compromised. And one of the bigger problems is going slowly to the workers in Norway, so where their work is appreciated, where our salaries are much higher, of course, and if there is a reduction of about 30% for just 3,000 kn, how will these families survive? They're the only ones left with Norway. However, we all know that where customerism passes that the grass does not grow, so in recent days Mr. Goran Kolak from HDZ came on some kind of mission, perhaps from Mrs. President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, perhaps the diameter of Plenokovic, and perhaps also by Mr. Fabris Peruška himself who had to know who was installed in the management of the company, which he owns directly. So now we're in a situation where on the one hand, the diameter puts Mr. Perushko, Mr. Kolak's HDZ, at the salary of 75000 kn, Mr. Kolak usually has an enviable biography, so he owns the consulting firm Komitium, a member of the defence counsel team, Damir Krstičević, for the purchase of fighter aircraft that we talk so much about. During the time of Krsticevic's deputy chief of staff, Mr. Kolak was his executive officer, during Mr. Berislav Roncevic, Mr. Kolak, became head of the cabinet of the same office, after which he worked at the King ICT, also connected with Mr. Krstičević, there was then Megabrand Doking for a time, to eventually return, and one of the last stations, means the secretary of the party HDZ, the party's National Security Committee, where Mr. Krsticevic was also headed. So I ask Mr. Krstičević this time, is he a minister or is he a businessman? Clientism in Croatia, we see it developed, it expands. Not only are the families of these workers at risk, and their existence, but national security is at risk. It's enough to get an ice wave out of Siberia and we've seen waves like that, half a hundred pillars of Dalekvode, a portable system, who's going to resuscitate it? HEP doesn't have that capacity. Here we depend on Dalekvod, the only company in Croatia to do this. On one hand, national security, the stability of the energy system, on the other hand, Minister Krsticevic is proposing a strategy here and speaks to all bells about some national security and national interests. So I'm asking from this place, my colleagues and my colleagues, and I'm also going to ask Mr. Fabris Perushko to show what's going on in Dalekvod, whether he knew or not, he had to know who installed all the company management he owns and who owns. Was there a withdrawal of money from Dalekvod for the needs of Agrokor? What's his role in this whole process, too, I'm going to ask a financial inspection to jump a little bit to Dalekvod, to examine this whole situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66928	We're going to the last debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66929	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. After the thematic session of the Committee on Labour, the pension system, the social partnership, held on Tuesday, there are no more unknowns about the possibility of installing elevators in multi-story residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia, where there are approximately 16800 entrances with P plus 3 which have no elevators and where people, approximately more or less, are struggling with the landings, or, on the third, fourth, so you can imagine 8 floors. We have seen on the thematic one example in Green Dol 2 where the tenants themselves were organized and the installation of a diesel which was definitely facilitated by the new building rules costing 440000 kn, divided into tenants, each month 500 kn to 15 years or a loan war of 3000 approximately 3300 kn per month for the payment of the installation of the diesel. We have on the other hand the possibility and all the green lights are on so that this can be financed at 80-85% of EU funds. You cannot blame the last government, because the lamps are lit by this Mr. Last Communication from the European Commission is, in cooperation with local self-government, the government must formalise its request, which means that the government, in cooperation with local self-government, needs to know and define priorities. The business as a whole is worth 538m euros, as a whole. It shall not be necessary to reserve all such funds immediately in this operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion through its rebalancing. But people, let's start dealing with it and that's possible. Let's start with 200, 250 million euros, book it, and that's possible by the end of this year. By the end of this year, an operational programme can be rebalanced. But I'm afraid of something else, that our ministries that have booked funds in the operational programme, that they'd rather not change and give up some projects that they're not sure they'll realize, so they'd rather keep it than give up the funds and open a new niche. Because everyone's pretending that I saw on this board, that and hoping that he would have so many projects that the whole number that was reserved for the operational programme from 2014 to 2020, that they would exactly do them, and they won't. And they know they won't. At the Ministry of European Funds and Regional Development, it is to coordinate these people and say, yes, this ministry will be the bearer. The most adapted ministry is the ministry that spent its amount through energy reconstruction and the installation of elevators in the building. There's nothing more you can do about it because that money's all spent. So if the others don't know, then let them give it to them, I'm not rooting for anyone. Let them continue to install the elevators now, because if they do, if they do, then we can freely install at least two thousand elevators by 2020. If we don't do this rebalancing and reallocate funds to this program from those that won't be realised, then we won't do anything until 2023. This is not just a question of a person with disabilities who certainly 50,000 has been blocked on the third, Thursday, fifth floor of a very limited movement. It's a standard of life, it's the quality of life in multi-story residential buildings. And I appeal to the Croatian government to seriously consider the possibility of not missing these chances. Imagine 440,000 or just pay 20% of that with some loan. What's the difference and what's the possibility? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66930	Thank you all for taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66937	Comrade Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66938	Thank you President, on behalf of the Most Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes, because today we are marking the World Water Day and in order to draw attention to the exceptional importance of water resources in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66939	Thank you. Anyone else? I'm setting a break to 12.20 hours. Thank you. It's 12.05. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,20 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists was requested by a respected colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, the World Water Day is being marked around the world on 22 March, and I want to point again from this pay phone to a resource that will be in the 21st key resource, which is water. As we know, this very important resource of water, without it there is no life on earth, and in many countries in the world and two thirds of the population do not have the availability of drinking water. The first important guidelines on the importance of drinking water were still made in 1987 in Argentina at the UN Convention, and in 1993 a decision was made in Brazil on the importance of water. to mark World Water Day. Croatia has the highest drinking water resources in Europe, and due to the global rise in the population, which will also make the need for water the largest resource in the future. It is predicted that by 2050 global water demand will grow by 40%, and of course the population will increase, and we need to know that every day in the world, because of the lack of drinking water, an average of 187 children die, how important the subject is spoken of daily by 187 children due to lack of water. And we need to know that almost a third of the population has no access to clean water, and the biggest problem of course is Africa. Here I would now a little about Croatia which, as I said, has... resources and an average of 20 per capita of 27,330 meters cubic meters which shows us that we are perspective on this resource and that we are the first in Europe. But the fact of how much worry we are taking is mainly about wastewater, so I will list what we have warned and what people have warned from the field, it is the Plitvice National Park where wastewater sets of Plitvice Lakes, the National Nature Park affect the underground without any protection, without any filters, without biological, physiological and chemical treatment of wastewater. When we talk about the greatest potential i.e. where we have the most water it is from Krka, so all the way to Neretva in that area were also attempts and insults to these resources of our natural water and the importance of water tells us how unserious we are that in 2014 the government held a session on the concession of Cetina's source to discuss the level of 37 seconds and gave a concession to a foreign water company source Cetina, it gave for a concession for 200 kuna per day, which means 5.6 thousand kuna per month, one OPG with a few average OPG spent so much water per month. We have a problem with wastewater in a number of major cities where we just don't have any filters either, we don't have any meanings simply not physiologically, not biologically, not chemically, where everything affects the rivers. That's why I warn 173 children die daily, because they don't have drinking water on average. The demand will increase by 55% to 2050 for water, which is the resource we have to protect. So far, we don't do that, we all have to work on it, because just when we look at it, once again I'm going to say, Plitvice Lakes try to upset Te Peru on the river Cetina where there's also a drinking pool, the largest drinking pool of water in the Republic, we're saying we're not treating this well as a resource that will be the key resource of the 21st century. Here is today when the World Water Day is marked together we all talk and protect the biggest resource, which is water, which is Croatia has and it is perspective on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u66942	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77107	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, but only one notice before that. Let me establish that, in accordance with Article 125(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the seventh session item is included: The proposal to launch the issue of trust by Martini Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by 37 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So that point is included in the agenda in automation. Today's first item is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Unpublished Information with Market Values, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 225. But before that, I saw a colleague of Sladolev's first and a colleague of Glasnović and a colleague of Maras. Replic or what? ... Well, a colleague of Willibor Sincic's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. We are now going back to the agenda - Final draft law on the protection of unpublished information with market value, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 225. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law. I would now like to ask the motionor to give an additional explanation of the proposal. With us is the Honorable Mako Glunčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77108	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and the MPs. So before us is the final proposal for a law on the protection of unpublished information with market value. In this law, the aim of this law is to strengthen mechanisms to promote innovation and other business-oriented activities. The aim of the law is also to ensure fair competition and to establish a clearer and more uniform legal framework for the protection of knowledge and experience and other information resulting from the investment of companies in the development of their business, which have a commercial value for reasons which are not widely available to the circles dealing with this type of information. This proposal also complies with Directive 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information from illegal acquisition, use and detection. This is a literal translation of the directive itself which obliges EU Member States to adopt the relevant rules to be transposed into national legislation by 9 June 2018. Compared to the proposal for this law adopted in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament in December 2017, the final proposal for the law is content, language and nomotechnically completed in accordance with the proposals of the first Committee on Law, then the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and the remarks highlighted at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. The most prominent amendment refers to the very name of the law, which in the draft law reads the Law on the Protection of Undiscovered Knowledge and Experiences, and business information. You can see that this notion of undiscovered knowledge was quite questionable and that is why we have introduced a new name, which is now the Law on the Protection of Unpublished Information with Market Values, because what we are, the last name was in principle a literal translation of the directive into Croatian. We expect that with the changed name it will achieve greater clarity compared to the subject matter of the law according to the observations made in the first reading. In addition, as regards the reference to the need for a review of the provision of Article 18 concerning the confiscation of property owned by an insurance opponent, the term “deposit of property” was replaced by a more appropriate term of seized real estate, noting that the provision in question transposes certain provisions of the Directive and it is the law itself. Therefore, the final draft of the law lays down rules on civil and legal protection against unauthorised procurement, use, undiscovered knowledge and experience, and business information that represents a business secret in terms of economic or commercial secrets, i.e. professional secrets. Following this business secret within the meaning of the directive in question, and this proposal itself, the law considers that information which is firstly unknown or easily accessible to the persons in the circles that normally deal with this type of information. Second, they have commercial value just because they're secrets. And the third party to whom the possessing party has applied appropriate reasonable actions to keep them secret. The first part of the law determines what is considered legal and what is illegal by obtaining the use and disclosure of business secrets. The proposal for a law provides for certain exceptions in which the court rejects the application for the implementation of the measures, procedures and remedies laid down in the draft law. These exceptions may be, for example, that the business secret has been used and revealed for the purpose of achieving the law of freedom and expression of thought, the right to access information, etc. The second part of the law contains the necessary provisions on the achievement of civil legal protection of the business secret in question. Thus, in this part of the law, rules on maintaining the confidentiality of business secrets during court proceedings, as well as rules on obtaining evidence during litigation proceedings, determines who is authorised to make a request in the procedure for the protection of business secrets and which requests may be made. Furthermore, this law regulates the application of provisional measures which may be imposed for the unlawful acquisition of use and disclosure of business secrets, as well as the provisions on urgency of conduct and provided for fines for infringements of certain measures adopted under this law. Those provisions shall seek to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, that the confidentiality or secrecy of the business secret in question is maintained during the court proceedings and that it is made available as close as possible to the circle of persons with respect to the principle of equality of the parties in the proceedings and that the injured party is ensured that civil legal protection is achieved more quickly than is essential in this type of procedure. Finally, it is expected that the adoption of the proposed law will help reduce the risk of unauthorized acquisition of the results of research on development, knowledge, experience and other valuable data faced by specific innovation firms, research organisations, as they provide for appropriate legal protection mechanisms against this. It is also expected that greater legal certainty in this area of legal protection will have positive effects on the functioning of the market, in particular the EU markets, since a harmonised clear legal framework at EU level will contribute to a more free cross-border innovation activity, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you. Only in the end would it be noted that we accepted the amendment that came from the Committee on Legislatives and concerning Articles 18 and 20, and now in that Article, paragraphs 8 and 20 of the Rules of Procedure, respectively, and the word depending on which time limits are later deleted under that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77109	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored counterparts Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77110	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. This law is of course important not because we like to say for most of the laws that we make, of course, that every law is important, but it is important from a point of view, as the Secretary of State said and the legal protection of business entities that operate and who use this model of business secrets as a protection of competence on the market, but it is important in itself and for the development of the Croatian economy. Otherwise, what we might be, here I will just say for introduction, of course it is important to say at the beginning now, we will support this bill as a club because it is necessary, it is necessary for implementations, Regulation 943/2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council, so we will support it, but this bill is important from the point of view of the development of the economy because in Croatia there is one, I would call it a paradox, later I will read these data, the big businesses ahead of the innovations, when we say the big ones are more than 250 employees. However, what is characteristic in Croatia is that most major companies are actually public or state-owned enterprises, and because of their natural location or monopoly there is a lower level of innovative activities. There is little paradox, though research conducted by the EU Intellectual Property Office is not sure, they are not listed as being analysed in companies in Croatia. But let's get it straight. Before the Directive 2016 was adopted, this research has been made, as it is important for all data collection, to collect and systematise, analyse and correctly interpret them. Well, that's how this research preceded that regulation, and that we now include in our legislation. The analysis that preceded the regulation has made the following conclusions visible from the analysis, innovative companies often use patent and business secrets to protect their innovations. The use of business secrets to protect innovation is greater than the use of patents for most types of businesses in most economic sectors and in all Member States. This is not strange because business secrets, unlike innovation, do not require or require certain material costs necessary for patent protection. Business secrets and patents will probably be used in enterprises with internal research and development, high costs for innovation and when innovation is new on the market. The advantage is given to business secrets when innovation is new to businesses only. The use of patents alone or combined with business secrets is more likely when it is an innovative product of goods, not a servant. The use of business secrets often without patents is more likely for innovation of procedures and for innovation of services. The use of business secrets alone or in combination with patents is more likely to maintain or increase the competitiveness of innovation in companies dealing with open innovation practices such as research cooperation, especially with remote not European partners. The 7th point on markets with high price competition also has a tendency to give priority to business secrets compared to patents in markets with strong quality competition there is a tendency to use both business secrets and patents. This link is about the above fifth conclusion. Strong price competition is typical for commodity markets where opportunities for differentiation of products are low and margins can be increased by cost management and process innovation. To try and interpret this on my own what I've concluded, if you want to increase company competitiveness, you can do it by starting innovation. You can innovate a product or business process. If you go with product innovation, it requires certain costs, time and finally, here it is defined, where there is a market developed, where there are many different products of this kind, it is difficult to actually make such an innovation that will be a significant step in competitiveness. In this case, it resorts to business processes, business process innovations, where production costs would be reduced and competitiveness increased, and in this respect these legal provisions are also very important. In the Republic of Croatia, we are faced with the situation that many companies have either reduced or actually maintained lower labour prices to be competitive and precisely innovative, allowing pay increases in the Republic of Croatia, will not do so by prescribing minimum wage levels, only innovation, improving competitiveness can increase wages levels in the Republic of Croatia and competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Now let's not talk by heart, what we are from research, in fact, research conducted by the European Intellectual Property Protection Office and what conclusions have come to. First of all, when we talk about the difference between patents and business secrets or business actually protecting in such a way as not to go into patenting, but to stick to the secret process, process. The difference is that the patent contains a codified or mummified level of protection compared to a business secret that does not have it. The secret of knowledge is not visible with either one or the other. So-called reverse patent engineering is actually very rare, because patents are just protecting ourselves from reverse engineering, but in business secrets, we can't protect ourselves from it. The time we can use innovation to improve the production of patents is only after the finished innovation, after the patent is recognised we can use benefits, but in business secrets we can practically apply the idea in our production. The patent is more facing the product, and the business secret can be both to the product and to the process. The length of protection in the patent is 20 years, and business secrets have no limitations. The patent is already mentioned, there is, let's call it high costs until patent is established, and in business secrets there are high costs of actually keeping secrets, all of those procedures that you have to set up in the company to control and keep business secrets. And what's the main thing is, in fact, the law's intensities now, which is visible in this analysis, when we talk about the EU, the patent is recognised, known, and the business secret is not, and that's why this directive came and that's why this law is coming today. And what's a little bit controversial about business secrets, unlike patents, is that you have to put in contracts on work so-called work. provisions that prevent the release of business secrets. And then it's a little bit in the way of our situation today, our situation that's not good, it's going to be going to work, migration, where actually in that way, it's now that it's collapsing with a working relationship, how you can protect if a man goes to another company not to take that business secret, of course this law defines it, but in some way to put a limit on people. And now let's get more on the data, not to be too much or to be more specific. So Croatia, when we talk about types of innovation, in products is below the European average, means 16.4% of the observed companies, there were 6953, 16.4% of them have innovations in the product area, and 19% in the process area. A total of 25%, meaning a quarter of the companies observed using innovation and now according to, what is now specific to Croatia, 23.2%, below 250 employees and I think that 43 million euros was taken as income 'el borders, and 68.3 large, means much, far higher, almost three times the level of innovation in large companies. Most likely it's cost-related, because you have to innovate at all, you have to create preconditions. Then, when we talk about the relationship between certain types of protection in Croatia, of course here when we talk about leaders who have certain already, who don't even have to worry about them, there are about 50% of them that use innovation, but business secret is in 40% of cases, 40.2 industrial stamp is 22.9%, patent is 14.2%, copyright 18.6% and design registration is 21.2%. These are data on individual levels of protection. And a table that shows us the relationship between small and large enterprises in relation to business secrets, relative to patents. In business secrets, this is a huge difference in favour of large companies, 56.3% use in Croatia, while small businesses 38.3 and when we look at large companies, and defined by this analysis of 250 employees, then we are here in the EU, the average, but in small ones we are significantly behind, and when we talk about patents, then there is a situation of approximately 13.7%, and a large 18.6% once again now to stress that this is not a simple topic, this depends on a lot of social indicators, other than the level of production, the rights of the businesses themselves covered by this law and the conclusion is quite certain that the law is well prepared and that it should be passed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77111	Thank you, too. We have a replica of a respected fellow Falcon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77112	... So, I have listened carefully to your debate and I am very pleased that you have highlighted one important topic and this is an issue of innovation and I agree with your conclusion that sometimes we may be too prone to public administration, direct state interference in some business processes, subsidisation, etc., and less to this creation of some favourable business environment, reducing obstacles and allowing entrepreneurs to protect their rights themselves. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And that's why I think this law is very important because it just makes it easier for us and enables entrepreneurs and businesses to protect what right the legal system offers them defined what rights they are, when they are injured and facilitates their legal protection procedure. And I think that's good, I think we need more of those laws, meaning facilitating business processes and less of direct State interference. But in innovation, you have one problem that you have partly pointed out yourself, so you have a situation that big firms especially monopolies, very often have no interest in investing in innovation, on the other hand small businesses, small entrepreneurs simply don't have the resources to do it because it takes them some time to start their own business, very often lack capital, and it's one of the fundamental problems of our economy, meaning the lack of this initial, core capital for further and then we have this problem. And for such small companies sometimes it is not enough to make it easier for them to have what they already have protection or to get some relief, so I think that there should be a combination of various resources, the various instruments that exist, I'm glad that we had the Law on State aid for research and development projects in this House which is on this track but I believe that further consideration will continue to be given to the mechanisms to create this initial incentive and help start ups, small businesses with good business ideas to ensure that initial capital and can further develop products and then have business secrets to protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77113	Replication response, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77114	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, fellow Sokol. So what you're seeing in practice is two problems and you're making it very clear. When we talk about various patents, then in small businesses we have low levels of patents, we have in large ones, but they have each other's advantage, they can, with them, see this progress of business secrets, so they're somewhere on the European average, but what does that mean for small businesses? The patent, to get to the patent, requires certain means to have, I don't know, here's the last time I said, I think it's the exact data, 20 000 kunas needs somewhere to even come up with this, it's with that protection that goes, now it has two kinds of different patents, is it complete or I forgot the name of the other one. So, he needs to, he's looking for funds for small businesses. Now another danger I see in business secrets why the same small businesses wouldn't resort to, and you may have warned in your replica now, it's not clear to me, how that small businesses that opt for a business secret, how they're going to seek subsidies or some kind of help because a business secret can't be shown as a basis for subsidies while, say, patents can and innovation can. And here are the representatives of the ministry, there may be a chance that some kind of business process should apply, but as soon as you report it, you're actually setting it up as a public, right, that's a little problem. What is important to small businesses, craftsmen, OPGs, we need to help move with the greatest level of innovation into this battle for competitiveness on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77115	Let's move on with the debate, now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Innovation firms are increasingly exposed to unfair practices aimed at unauthorized acquisition of business secrets. Like theft, unauthorized multiplication, economic espionage, violations of confidentiality requirements. Existing circumstances such as globalisation, greater externalization of business,... and obtain chains and widespread use of information and communication technologies contribute to increasing the risk of such practices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unauthorized indigestion, the use of a business secret endangers the ability of the legal holder of a business secret to take advantage of the first bidder by using the results of his innovative efforts. Without effective and comparable means of protecting business secrets, incentives to launch innovative cross-border activities in the EU internal market are diminished and the potential of business secrecy as a driver of economic growth and employment cannot be exploited, which we have already heard something about. It therefore discourages innovation and creativity and reduces investment which affects the smooth functioning of the internal market and reduces its growth potential. The business secret falls under the most frequent protection of the intellectual creation of innovation knowledge and experience used by businesses, but at the same time it is least protected from all other forms of intellectual property when it is illegally supplied, used or watered in a third party. Business secrets are particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises as much as they can use them and for companies that are just beginning their activities and are important for the protection of non-technological innovations. Companies in the service sector whose share of EU GDP is around 70% rely primarily on business secrets and smaller on formal forms of intellectual property that are more represented in the manufacturing sector, so we are talking primarily about patents. Business secrets are recognised as an equally important instrument for protecting investment in business development as well as conventional intellectual property rights, and it is necessary to ensure uniform protection against their illegal supply, use and detection at EU level. To that end, Directive 2016/943 on the protection of undiscovered knowledge and experience and business information against illegal supply, use and detection has been adopted. What is important is that this directive allows civil legal protection of business secrets with economic value defined as an intellectual property form. It is important to stress that this directive at EU level does not lead to the unification of the entire area of regulation of business secrets but only civil and legal protection of business secrets with economic value, which constitutes a form of intellectual property, is primarily about the definition of what opportunities they have, meaning, which falls within the legal and illegal acquisition of business secrets and which are legal means in civil proceedings, a litigation procedure which companies, i.e. companies, or companies, can use to protect and prevent, or sanction such infringements. In Croatian legislation, there is no systematic regulation of the issue of protection of business secrets against illegal procurement, use and disclosure. So what we have, on the other hand, is a series of rules that partially regulate the protection of business secrets, in different aspects, from criminal law, the protection of competition to this civil-legal part. In order to improve the national legal framework in this area, in order to comply with the rules of the Republic of Croatia with that Directive, it is proposed to adopt this Law which regulates this area. So there are several regulations that partially regulate the matter of business secrets, I will not enter into all of them, but I will highlight some key moments concerning this law too. So, according to Croatian regulations that partially regulate the protection of business secrets, it is not only defined in terms that corresponds to the form of intellectual property contained in the directive.../The speaker speaks English./... but is much wider and includes confidential business information in a broader sense. I stress here that for the purpose of harmonising with the ultimate way of regulating matter in the directive, this Final Proposal of the Law applies exclusively to business secrets with market value. So that's what we said. So, this narrow term, not this broad that remains regulated by other Croatian laws that regulate it. Of the existing laws that regulate the issue of protection of business secrets, I would mention the Law on Mandatory Relations, as a key law, a roof law governing the area of mandatory relations, primarily contracts. In his article 19th century 3. The protection of business secrets is regulated by placing a business secret under the rights of a legal person. By issuing an unauthorized business secret, a legal person has been injured by the right of personality and may require a court or other competent authority to take measures to protect his or her rights. So what matters is that this legal protection is very limited. And here the regulation is very limited. Therefore, protection is limited to business secret legal persons and no specific legal means are arranged which would be available in the event of unlawful procurement and disclosure of business secrets and damages to such infringements. So, the Law on Mandatory Relations is very strict in that part because obviously when it was passed, it wasn't taken into account enough of this problem as something that's, say, quite new, let's say, and there's a lot of new awareness about the need for systematic editing of this matter. With regard to licensing procedures, the Law on Mandatory Relations further stipulates that if the subject matter of the licence makes up an unpatent invention, or secret knowledge and experience, the licensee is obliged to keep it in secret. Furthermore, the Law on Trade, which is also an important law in this part, says that as one of the actions considered unfair trade, it states the unlawful acquisition of the business secrets of another trader or the unlawful exploitation of the business secret of another trader, and in that case the damages may be sought in court proceedings. Therefore, no specific measures, procedures and remedies were agreed upon by this Law, which would be available in the event of unlawful acquisition of use, or disclosure of business secrets. So there's, uh, there's a few of these that I've listed and a lot of other business regulations, but I'm really not going to go into the details right now. I talked more about it in the debate when it was the first reading of the law. So, I stress that this Final Bill does not interfere with the provisions of the said regulations of the Republic of Croatia that remain in force continue to apply. It only regulates this segment of civil and legal protection of business secrets as a form of intellectual property, which companies recognise conventional forms of intellectual property rights as an important allegation for primarily business competitiveness where unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia still has a lot of, a lot of room for progress. So without convincing the content of just a final proposal that the secretary of state has already said a lot, he would just point out some of its key elements. As already mentioned, most importantly, the definition of business secrets is prescribed, and it is determined what is considered legal acquisition, use and disclosure of business secrets. So, what is important is that this Law does not establish any exclusive right regarding business secrets, and therefore an independent discovery of the same knowledge and experience or information is possible. So it can happen that some knowledge or experience can be discovered at the same time in different legal entities, especially if it is something that is at a lower level of complexity, such as some perhaps business process, and let's say, not patents where it would be much more difficult in practice. In addition, the reverse engineering of the legally supplied product is also considered a legal way of obtaining information. Furthermore, the acquisition of business secrets in the context of the exercise of the rights of workers' representatives to inform, consult and participate in accordance with the business regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU shall be considered legal, as well as any acquisition in accordance with good business practices or where it is required or permitted as such by specific rules of the Republic of Croatia or by EU gains. Of course, there is a need to be careful how to define in practice the concept of good business practices because there is, of course, a lot of room for different interpretations and there is a very important role for courts and competent authorities to apply the law. Furthermore, apart from the notion of legal procurement from the use and disclosure of business secrets, the concept of illegal is also defined, which is of course, of perhaps crucial importance. Thus, the saying states, among other things, that the illegal use of business secrets is considered to offer and provide services using a business secret. So, not only the discovery of business secrets, but also its further use and profit on it. So that one broad definition. What is particularly important is that no business secrets are the same as the mechanism, their protection, the mechanism of protection of certain criminal activities, exceptions are prescribed so as not to restrict the activity of whistlers and the exercise of workers' rights to reveal their representatives in accordance with the specific regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the acquis of the EU and to protect other legitimate interests. This is extremely important that the protection of business secrets prescribed by these laws would not be used to cover up certain illegal procedures that they will, of course, always have. Also, I would point out the question and that the question of compensation for damage to business secrets, which in practice is probably one of the most important things because the most difficult thing you can do to someone other than put them in jail, if you break the law, is to hit him in the pocket and there is a mechanism of compensation that he really applies, which can lead to major financial problems for someone who gives away a business secret is I think, a very good and effective mechanism for protecting business secrets. Therefore, the conditions to be taken into account by the court when determining the amount of compensation for damages and the possibility to determine the amount of damages that could in circumstances have been claimed by the perpetrator of the injury to be granted for the use of a business secret shall be determined. I would like to stress from the procedural provisions that the requirements that can be applied for in order to protect business secrets are prescribed. So that part is more precise than perhaps some of the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, which is a general law governing civil procedure. Also, as pointed out, which is extremely important, the law explicitly prescribed the urgency of resolving procedures for breach of business secrets and set concrete deadlines. I think it's extremely important, that in this way new procedures become one of the priorities of our courts. And of course, if a court judge breaks those deadlines, it will certainly reflect their assessment, the possibility of progress, and that's something that should then be done in framework criteria for judges, meaning if such provisions of the law are violated, although space already exists, but perhaps even more concrete is prescribed. The urgency of the procedure should also be determined in order to comply with the provision of Article 3 of Directive 2004/48. Finally, I welcome the done nomotechnical terminology adjustments, whose need was highlighted by the relevant committees, but also by the HDZ Club. I know they've had quite a constructive discussion, which unfortunately, in the House, is quite rare, in fact, to talk about the problem, and not to use the debate for some kind of political point. Here we are, I think we had a very constructive discussion, so I believe and hope that this debate helped to better define the subject matter of the law, the very name of the law, this part of the exercise that you've already pointed out. I hope that such constructive debates in Parliament will continue as much as possible. So, to conclude, we believe that this law is very important for the improved business climate in the Republic of Croatia we as the HDZ Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77117	Thank you. We are now going to an individual debate, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77118	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My respect for State Secretary Mr. Gluncic and his associate, as representatives of the motionary. Here, I'm going to try, so in this as long as time allows, in a way, actually sum up everything we've said so far. First of all, when we talk about the final proposal of this law, it is necessary to say that so far, until the adoption of this law in Croatian legislation, there is, in fact, no systematic regulation of the issue of protection of business secrets from illegal acquisition of use and disclosure, but this problem has been solved so far through a number of different regulations and, in fact, we had in part a partial, therefore, regulation of the protection of business secrets. And right now, I need to stress that this law, so it has 2 functions, is first of all passed among other things and is for the sake of improved national legislation in this area, and then also for the sake of harmonising the rules of the Republic of Croatia with the EU, i.e. Directive 2016/943. Of course, as has already been said, this law details measures against illegal procurement, use and giving away business secrets to those who have market value as a specific form of intellectual property, and also provides for the introduction of measures of procedures and different means of law within the scope of civil law, just to protect the legitimate interests of the holder of a business secret, as a form, a specific form, intellectual property. It should also be pointed out that, therefore, through legislation, there is protection for whistles that, with good intention, reveal business secrets in order to protect the general public from general public interest. And in this sense, it is necessary once again to stress that the content of the law primarily refers to the regulation of civil legal protection of business secrets, which is defined by this law as a form of intellectual property. And when it comes to the final proposal of this law, after I must say, very constructive and affirmative debates on all relevant bodies, the amendments to the amendments have been accepted, therefore, and that I do not now list them and do not read them in detail, I will just count them, 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 14, 18, 19, 22, and here the amendments have been accepted and amended in Article 20. What I need is particularly highlighted, commended, and then thank the proposing representatives, that proposals have been accepted both by individual parliamentary representatives and by members of individual responses, as well as by committees as a whole. First of all, those proposals, which referred to the lack of clarity, the name, the bill's proposal, we know that in the first reading of the law, it was called the Law on the Protection of Undiscovered Knowledge and Experiences, and the business information, which, at that time, we all observed, and I am glad that it was accepted, so it was actually a literal translation, which at first looked at the immediate, inconceivables and doubts in a semantic sense, meaning. And of course what is very important, that we managed to achieve one after a constructive debate, compromise, to adapt the name of the law primarily to the spirit of the Croatian language, and then to avoid any possibility of doubt and doubt by the users of this law themselves. Because we know that all the laws we adopt are, in fact, the primary purpose of their purpose is to improve the practice and to edit this problem in practice so that users all, above all, are protected in this area and in that sense, the very statement of the law that is here in the final reading has the name Protection of Undiscovered Knowledge and Experiences, and business information, seems appropriate to me also in the spirit of Croatian language. And in that sense, I really thank the Proposer for this acceptance that, above all, the provisions of this law are resolved and improved in a termological sense, and then we have technical updates, as pointed out in the end and in the plenary debate in the past, when the law was first read and in that sense, I believe that this law will also contribute, above all, that this problem instead of a partial approach through different regulations is solved in this round way and that in good faith and in a good way, civil law protection of business secrets defined as a form of intellectual property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77119	Thank you. We have two replicas, but before that we will welcome students and students of the Commercial and Commercial School of Davor Milas from Osijek and their professors and teachers. Welcome. Now we're going to the replicas, the first replica is the esteemed fellow Falcon. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77120	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Bedekovic, I agree with your debate, there's only one segment, you mentioned that we don't have a systematic legal regulation in this area. That's true, but it's important to stress that there are already laws that regulate the same thing, but not specific to business secrets. So we have the Law on Mandatory Relations that has certain provisions that apply to it and we have the Law on a litigation procedure that regulates this part of the legal protection process. However, what is important and what this law provides is one level higher in that legal protection, or what we already have. And I think that's good, and I think it's a good political message that shows that one of the priorities of this government is to strengthen the business environment and make it easier for entrepreneurs to meet their potentials to the end and that they can realise through business secrets, through innovation, etc. Maximumly strengthen your position on the market. And I think that approach is what we need and I hope we continue in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77121	Answer from my colleague, Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77122	Well, here's a little bit. Thank you very much for pointing that out once again, and in that sense, I was saying that until the adoption of this law we really have some parts solved, but here by my humble court settled in a partial manner. And it is precisely this law that contributes precisely to the improvement of national legislation and the rounding of this issue at a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77123	Second replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77124	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bedekovic. Congratulations first on the debate which has touched some other things, but you as a former high school dean, perhaps in the debate we forgot to touch and in the explanation writes, we are mostly talking about the business sector in enterprises, but here are mentioned universities, research laboratories, and individual inventors and creators who use confidentiality as the most reliable form of adoption. So in general in science, the provisions of this law can be applied, which is very important, and I think we're giving that wider scope to this whole thing. However, one objection, and I'm going to tell you that although the ministry's representatives hear it, I don't really know whose jurisdiction it is. The European Union Intellectual Property Office has conducted research in cooperation with the Meinheim Centre for European Economic Research, and look at this is a very good research, giving us free data. But what happens, Google, you can only find the first five pages on the Internet, an executive summary translated into Croatian. Believe it's a problem, the problem is for people who don't know English to read it simply, and it's good to read these data. I think in that direction you should make an effort to make such things useful, I apologize, I replicate to you... if I may not have found it, but I did not find only the first five pages were translated into Croatian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77125	Answer from my colleague, Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77126	Well, thank you very much for this finding where you spoke about higher education institutions, and I would also like to add scientific institutes and similar institutions that are specific to many things, and among other things, I would say to a large amount of intellectual property that they have in their activities. And of course it is very important and that this law is very relevant for higher education institutions and scientific institutes because of the nature of their activities, and it is interesting that I am now going back to your debate in which you spoke about the possible transition of employees from institution to institution. So the intellectual property of higher universities is actually a collection of the intellectual property of the institution and each individual employee, and it is very important to keep an eye on each individual after the transfer of employees from one institution to another in a way that regulates the intellectual capital that each individual carries with him. That was the first one, so I agree with you and thank you for noticing. And secondly, about translation, so I think it's just me and the question that needs to be taken into account and the proposer, and I certainly suggest that this problem be considered in detail and that everything that needs to be translated be translated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77127	Thank you. And for the end of this point, we have a final address on behalf of the motionary, the esteemed Secretary of State Mako Gluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77128	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. I thank Mr. Zagar, Mr. Sokol and Mrs. Bedekovic. The debate was really constructive, and we did very much in this debate to correct the law itself. What I would like to say to you as a replica just to say in this brief statement, in these business secrets at universities, it is essentially now followed by a good process to get to know these people who work at the university that there is, in principle, one such law and that they are in principle obliged and that it is in their interest to keep this business secret in the universities themselves that it does not spread around and that it is simply their university that benefits from it. And the other thing, I didn't know that only five pages were translated. It would be good, I will try to maybe translate the entire study, because the study is pretty good so that it is available in Croatian and other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77129	Thank you, too. This is what we've come to the end of the debate, I'm the one who concludes it. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Unpublished Information with Market Values, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 225, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendment and the same station was an integral part of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Unpublished Information with Market Values. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 114 for, 3 abstentions have been passed a Law on the protection of unpublished information with market value.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77132	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. In front of you is a proposal for a new complete Museum Act which was adopted at the 84th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 8 March 2018. Croatia has a well-developed network of museums, and part of them is recognized in international frameworks, which is an unequivocally the result of the work of museum employees, but also at the same time the continued investment of the Ministry of Culture in numerous museum programmes. Also in recent years, through the EU funds, numerous examples of investment in the reconstruction of museums and the opening of new museums are one of the most important indicators of the inclusion of museums and museum activities in the modern framework of European funding. Thus, through the government's plan of normative activities, the need to develop a modern normative framework was logically imposed. Discussing the existing situation, given a number of professional and technological changes in the performance of the museum's activities, the need for clarity of legal provisions and more systematic nomotechnical solutions has arisen as a result of the easier legal interpretation of certain provisions of the laws that express the very basic meaning of the law offered. It is also an extremely important and current process of digitising museum construction and documentation. Because of these processes, there was a need for coordinated treatment with museum archival and library construction. Let me just briefly remind you that this is one of the few times when within a whole community of experts called museum archival and library we have two three laws just in progress, the Archive Law or the Law on Archive and Archives was at first reading and we are now between two readings. We are considering all the remarks that occurred during the constructive debate. Here is the Museum Act right in front of you in the first reading, and the Library and Library Activity Act is about to be sent to e-consultation. The bill itself is more summary than the applicable, with all the key provisions repositioned according to the new series of chapters, and norms are clearer, shorter and easier to implement, with the law then accepted at the Croatian Parliament. The following shall be part of the implementing provisions which will be carried out through the regulations themselves. What's being governed by the law? These are the conditions and methods of performing museum activities, structure and part-round museums, the acquisition and processing of museum buildings and the management of museum documentation, and other issues of importance for performing museum activities for the purpose of protecting and promoting general human and national culture, cultural and natural heritage. This law also ensures that museum activities are carried out as a public service within the framework of the RS museum system, regulates museum activities with the aim of protecting and preserving Croatian cultural and natural heritage and, of course, its availability to the public, which is also kept and protected in terms of cultural heritage for the present and future generations with the aim of increasing their knowledge and competence and establishing ways of financing the museum's own activities. At the shortest, I think it is important here in part to point out how the new bill differs from the current Museum Act that was adopted on this body in 2015. In addition, the definition of museums that can be public and established as institutions, and private ones that can be established as institutions, but also as foundations, associations or companies for which the rules of financial operations and accounting are prescribed to strengthen fiscal responsibility are further regulated. The newspaper is also to introduce the concept of a museum of the religious community which is a permanent exhibition of the building of a religious community available to the public with the aim of including rich church cultural heritage in the system of the museum of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the separation of museums, religious communities have shown a clear intention and desire to engage religious communities with their extremely valuable structure in the network of museum institutions, and to provide them with as high quality presentation, care and protection of the building they own through a new legal framework. In the previous public debate, one of the things that is extremely important was the law, because there was a whole series of difficulties that did not make it possible in the previous period. The tasks of public museums as heritage institutions are also detailed, and the specific obligation resulting from the adoption of the law is also the inventory and professional evaluation of museum objects in order to establish protection, in accordance with the regulations on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, and a deadline is introduced for the completion of the process of inventory of the entire museum building in the Republic of Croatia by the end of 2020. This is, of course, in line with the information and technical level of literacy of the modern digital age with the aim of achieving a final impact, which is to identify the actual number of museum objects and museum collections stored in the museums of the Republic of Croatia, and 22 museums which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia, so we have 160, 158 more specifically told museums that are the founders of the unit of local self-government, regional self-government or museums that are part of another legal body. The obligation to secure the property of a public museum is prescribed, which refers to the space and equipment of the museum in the insurance company, given the risks they are exposed to and to the extent agreed by the founder, as well as the obligation to provide technical and physical protection of the museum building. For the first time, the central body of the museum of the Republic of Croatia is introduced, it is the Museum Documentation Centre, the establishment of which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia and which is given the role of organizer and coordinator of the work of the museum within the organized system which would take over from the Ministry of Culture in this case the management of the museum's eyewitnesses. MDC, it is given the subjectivity and role of the organizers and coordinators of the work of museums within the organised system by which museums in the Republic of Croatia are connected for the purpose of applying a unique professional approach to performing museum activities, organised and coordinated improvement of professional work and raising the level of protection and preservation of the museum building. It is one of the newspapers, and the MDC will also determine the issue of parenthood for different types of museums. Also, we have one newspaper that introduces the founder of the obligation under which he is obliged before asking for the registration of museums in court or other registers to obtain from the Ministry of Culture a solution on the existence of conditions for establishment in order to prevent the establishment of museums that do not meet the prescribed conditions because we have numerous examples where different things are called museums, although we are essentially not, so that we have different examples of even the restaurant being called the Museum of Taste, and there is no connection with the museum. This would therefore further and thoroughly determine this. The name of the administrative body of the museum is also changed, the name of the administrative council is returned, in the previous debate has been established from talks with a number of stakeholders that different members of the board of directors and that they do not behave exactly as expected, so that we reached for one variant that only members of the board of directors could be people with higher education in order to make it impossible for administrative councils to be members who are not eligible for participation in the work, when talking about the museum and about the museum's activities themselves. In addition, private museums would have their own bodies prescribed by a special law, depending on the legal form in which they operate, whether it is the Law on Institutions or on the Law on Foundations and Foundations or the Company Act. The law allows for strengthening the management role of the director that comes out of the narrow professional frameworks, as prescribed by the terms and conditions of the selection of directors, for the profession of the outside-museum profession. It is determined under which conditions and which number would be the expert council, professional supervision of the work of the museum is strengthened, and it is prescribed that the director of the museum, i.e. the head of the museum within the legal person, is required within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law to adopt the Inventarisation Programme and the registration of the museum building and documentation in the Register of Cultural Goods of the Republic of Croatia with a fixed time limit of enforcement until 31 December 2020, as I mentioned earlier. Also, in relation to the current Museum Act, the part establishing the list of titles is deleted. The proposal of the Museum Law lays down more thoroughly the concept of museums and museum activities, which may be further if necessary, questions will be asked, which is a more thorough definition. It is also about the implementing rules resulting from the proposal for a new law, which are rules to be done, of course, if this body adopts the law. Finally, in this opening work, I would say that it is certain that the new law would improve the work of existing museums as well as the museum systems, that museum management and primarily protection, research and representation of cultural heritage cared for by the museums in the Republic of Croatia would be avoided. A clearly comprehensive process of improving museum activity through the museum network will be launched, conditions will be created for the provision of space and equipment for the quality and professional performance of museum activities, allowing the establishment of new museums that will care and communicate cultural heritage of national and local importance for the Republic of Croatia. The law went through all the envisaged procedures, it was in the e-consultation, it's about first reading, we will carefully consider all the remarks we can hear before the law is referred to the second reading procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77133	Thank you. We have a replica of this exhibit, dear colleague Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77134	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here, I'm not from that profession, but I read this law which is actually, here's a new one compared to the old one that was passed three years ago. What, I think I'm going to come back later either through replicas or in an individual debate, I'd just like to ask you, so here I read, the law itself is pretty short, and there's a lot of e-consultation, there's a lot of discussions, and a lot of people actually refer to, so there's a few of these key things, and one that I'd like to mention now, and I'd like to say if you could and answer it is, it actually applies to these short deadlines. Short deadlines for inventory. People here most mention it in one way and sub-capacitation in terms of human, so people, so it's still one professional work that needs to be done in quality, not only does it have to be done in real quality, but it's really mentioned as a real problem, and I'd like you to see, in some way, that it can also be connected to the fact that you are also in the provisions, articles relating to violations, introduce something, so please explain to me, maybe I'm on the wrong track, whether the part that applies to natural persons, does it really refer to employees who are in the museum itself and perform a certain activity, let's say that I am on the wrong footing, is the part of the type of founder? And certain violations, for example, can also be linked to this performance of this particular activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77135	Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77136	At this stage, I think it's enough, when it comes to first reading, it was really a very constructive public debate and it was the remarks of a number of stakeholders, but then we summed them up in just a few. One of them was referring to inventory, and we have different experiences here, you have a number of museums that have already inventoryed all the buildings, but in the conversation really with the muzeals, which preceded the writing of new laws, we have done a number of consultations and we have found that it is indeed a crucial moment to make an inventory of what is important to us and because of many other things that are not explicitly normative, but also refers to this part of the participation of the museums in e-financing, structural funds and so on. And there's a part of the stakeholders that's worried that they're not gonna make it to the relationship. What is now unequivocal is that there are extremely high-quality programs, informational, which allow for a relatively short period of time to make a list of all the buildings that are in museums, and if there are any individual situations where this might be critical, we are willing to make quick communication with museums of such type and provide a certain kind of assistance, but here I must also warn that it is highly unacceptable that in 2020 as the end of the year, i.e. 2018, we are even talking about that in certain museums that were founded long ago, all the buildings are not yet inventoryd. So, as it's really about doing a basic job, which is taking care of the building itself, about the museum fund, we think it's very important to finally get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77137	Thank you. You will, there will be more opportunities. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, respected colleague Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77138	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. MOST of Independent Lists welcomes the intensities of the law which raises the level of criteria for members of administrative councils, which are now required for higher education, we also find it very important that the administrative council, other than members from the ranks of prominent cultural, public, scientific staff, also has legal, economic and financial experts. The Council shall adopt programme financial reports, thereby preventing it from carrying out the same review of a financial report that is not in accordance with the rules. This expert may consider reports from his perspective, and it is proposed to be incorporated into future laws dealing with both theatres and libraries. Article 2 states that this law preserves and protects cultural heritage, for present and future generations, with a view to increasing their knowledge and competence. We think that the definition of competence is a set of knowledge and skills and attitudes, so we suggest building knowledge and competence that it is illogical and proposes to delete the word knowledge and remain only competence because it is a much wider term. In Article 26, paragraphs 11 and 12 for the appointment of a director of a public museum, it is possible to select a person with professional, working and organisational abilities, abilities and skills only, we propose to replace the word with the ability of the word competence. Article 3(2) uses the term that museums can be used to carry out education activities. Educational programmes are planned, formal and structural, for them is required by the Ministry of Education's permission. We suggest changing the expression of education in education. Article 23(2) states that the Board of Directors shall be elected by the founder in Article 24. states that the Administrative Board shall adopt the status with the prior consent of the founders, i.e. the founder with the majority stake, while Article 26(3) and (5) describe the selection of the Director of the Public Museum, who shall be the founder of the units of local and regional regional self-government, appointed and resolved by the founder, or by several founders in agreement on the proposal of the Governing Council. In the case of the adoption of statutes, the selection of directors is clear that it is executed by the representative body of the founders. But there are different opinions and practices in the board of directors. It is proposed that instead of the founder, the representative body of the founders be incorporated into the law. This practice exists in the Law on Theatres and in the selection of theatre councils. Furthermore, in its decision of 7 March 2017, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision. The government gave its opinion, the proposal of the Statute of the City of Dubrovnik made it clear that, when it thinks of the founder, it refers to the representative body of the founders. This would contribute to better and better quality work of the council, but also to further professionalisation, which is in the intensities of this law. Furthermore, Article 36 suggests that Article 36(3), instead of the president and members of the Croatian Museum Council, is appointed and resolved by the Minister responsible for Culture: the President and members of the Croatian Museum Council shall be appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the National Assembly to conduct a public tender, and the vote on the selection of members shall be secret and shall be chosen by the majority of the votes of all MPs. Due to the great importance of museum activity as well as the need for an independent body, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament appoints presidents and members of the Croatian Museum Council as well as the already highlighted rise in level of criteria. It is proposed that Article 28(3), instead of the Expert Council of the Museums, are generally all professional museum staff of the museum unless the Statute of the Museum, or legal person whose composition the museums are established is a different composition of the professional council: The professional council of museums is made up of all professional museum workers if the museum has up to 20 professional staff. In museums with more than 20 professional museum staff, the Expert Council can make up elected representatives of professional museum staff. The proposed article would make all museum experts the Expert Council if the museum employs up to 20 professional museum employees. We propose that Article 32(1), instead of a museum established by the Republic of Croatia or a unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, be managed by financial operations and accounting in accordance with the rules for budgetary users, reads: The museum to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional (regional) self-government is run by financial operations and accounting in accordance with the rules for budgetary users and may also be in accordance with the rules for non-profit organisations if the museum is established as a non-profit trust and associations. The current Museum Act is from October 2015. From this bill, it is proportionate that all the rules currently in force are in force before the date. It is concluded that no regulation has been passed in relation to the law currently in force, although this law prescribes a time limit since the adoption of the rules of practice shows that it has not acted without anyone's responsibility under the current laws. In the activities of the museum, Article 7(1) audits the museum building at the museum every 5 years and submits a report to the Ministry of Culture and Founder, the experience suggests that this is not carried out in some museums at least not within that deadline. If he insists on it, why is there no sanctions? And it's not being implemented because some museums have too many collections that count at least over 10,000 items, and there are over 30,000 and more. The audit mostly includes three employees who carry out the work for up to three months. At least for large collections and it's quality in the sense that they're checking the state of the case. Often, the lack of employees and their involvement in museum exhibitions and other projects or research does not allow the proposed revision deadline to be met. Perhaps he could regulate himself according to the scope of the collection. For the purposes of that Article, paragraph 15 shall also carry out other activities in accordance with a specific law to clarify what other activities they are, and in accordance with what specific law. And what about the revenues from these activities? Museums are public and non-profit institutions, so revenues are invested in museum activities. When deciding to elect members of the Croatian Museum Council, condition the concrete achievements and contributions to the profession as clearly prescribed for the Administrative Council and the Director, which are the criteria that need to be met. And finally, the main objection of the people of the profession, so the museum was to abandon the museum's titles in law above all left out that the basic and fundamental museum calling of curators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77139	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear colleague Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77140	Thank you. I believe that it is unnecessary to perform these nominalist-conceptual interventions in the upcoming and proposed text of this law, especially because you have not chosen adequate and appropriate terms. For example, education cannot be replaced by education, because education assumes some sort of organised process while education assumes the development of physical, mental and other abilities and should by no means replace a concept that is more inappropriate in the context of the law that we are discussing. I also believe that it is not possible to replace the concept of knowledge with concepts of competences, because competences also include the development of cognitive and metanegative processes and skills, i.e. in a philosophical sense, competence is the possibility that someone participates in the understanding process of achieving the intended objectives. It is a telelogical process, and I therefore believe that, or rather, I believe that these terms which you have cited as terms of weaker meaning in the context of this law should be maintained because they are precisely more appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77141	The answer of my colleague, Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77142	My colleague Vučetić, even with education and education, can sort of agree, but as far as knowledge and competence are concerned, they can't because it's a very simple example that those who start driving can have phenomenal knowledge of changing speeds, and neither of the competences I would have with a man like that would have sat in a car so that he would recommend that we change the speed from first to second by pressing the clutch without him having the competence to do so. I think competence includes knowledge and skills, and I think that term is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77143	Thank you. We are now going to a second debate, the Live Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA and the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77144	Thank you very much. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with a co-worker. Today, we have a very important topic that comes up with a narrow, professional area and is intruding into the very essence of social and economic developments. In addition to the narrow need to preserve cultural heritage in order to maintain a healthy national identity, the issue of presentation of our culture and history is intruding today at the very core of the economy and, above all, tourism that has become the main budgetary item in Croatia. In fact, tourism today in Croatia accounts for even 18% of GDP income and we are absolutely the first in Europe. So no country in Europe has such a share of tourism in GDP as Croatia. The assumption is that due to the development of communication in the coming years and decades, the number of tourists will only grow and will not fall. In this sense, we can link this topic to something called cultural tourism that exists in most countries of the world, but unfortunately, very little is said in Croatia, and at least there would be some national strategy in this regard. In this regard, cultural tourism keeps this activity competitive, especially in this respect it is an interesting Europe which has a very rich cultural heritage and is interesting for tourists from other continents. For this reason, it is a tool that could serve as a tool for the recovery of the entire economy. For example, France and Austria have cashed in their cultural heritage in a way that has more income than tourism than the entire Adriatic. So it's interesting that Vienna only thanks to museums, castles and its culture earns more from tourism than our entire coast. Cultural tourism has the advantage because it can last all year, and often attracts tourists to return to the same place multiple times. It is particularly important for cultural tourism itself to benefit from connecting with tourism because it is then making more resources than it had until then. As far as the museum is concerned, Croatia currently has 284 of which are about 10% state-owned, with an average of 85,000 visitors with a paid ticket to 100,000 inhabitants. This figure is relatively low compared to the countries in the environment, so let's say the Czech Republic has 123,000 visitors, Slovenia 172,000, and Austria 202,000 or three times more visitors to museums than Croatia. So obviously we have a problem that our museums don't visit as many people as they do in neighboring countries. The next problem we can read from statistics is that Croatia has a total of 25 persons employed in museums on 100,000 inhabitants while Slovakia has 41st, Czech Republic 55s, Slovenia 114s and Austria 117s, so Austria has five times as many employees in museums as Croatia compared to the population. Next, some results show that an average museum visits 17,000 people annually in Croatia, that a museum is visited by 27,000 people in the Czech Republic, in Austria 32, and in Poland as many as 38,000 people. So all of these figures show the following in Croatia, the museums are poorly visited, have too few employees and have too little income. Another interesting statistical data suggests that in Croatia only 77 museums of 284 have more than 5,000 visitors per year, which means that museums are empty in Croatia. And let's just say look at how museums work in neighboring countries. For example, you can come to Čakovec, I'm talking about it because I come from there, so it's the best-known example, we have an extremely valuable castle and museum in it that was the seat of the Zrinski family that we can say is the most important family in Croatian history. However, there are not enough visitors. When you come to Hungary, say, in the city of Keszhely or when you come to the Mur Sobota, visitors are waiting in line, so they're waiting in line to buy tickets. You would not believe in one Keszhely is a family ticket to the museum of 200 kuna and people are waiting in line to visit the museum, let's say in Čakovec or another Croatian town are tickets of 10, 20 kuna and in fact the visitor is very little. Someone will say it's an investment problem, it's a money problem, but the interesting thing is that the best European museum is officially declared in Valjevo. So Valjevo in Serbia has the best museum, which means that the question of money is not crucial, but is more a question of creativity. In our case, the situation is partly because of the bad laws and partly because the museums are not connected to commercial activities and are not related to tourism. Because if they were, then, like in some foreign countries, there would be a presentation, say from foreign crafts, a presentation of handicrafts, like meeting real animals, like, I don't know, horses, etc. These are all let's say the additional contents offered in the world museums, but in Croatia there is simply not enough knowledge. By doing so, there are also different manifestations held in the world museums, various cultural events, etc. There are different museum routes, numerous institutions connect with museums and in fact the museum becomes a kind of generator of local development. I'd like to say, however, here too, that when we speak, please? When it comes to commercial activity, commercial activity must at no cost be more important than cultural and public interest. And there is now a very important solution that is offered in law, which is that museums should be non-profit institutions according to the definition of the international council of museums. So it's a non-profit facility. And now watch what the ministry has done. The ministry sent legislation to the e-consultation by which the museums of non-profit institutions are, is that in this proposal, the laws they have passed in the House have left out the word "no profit". And now I would like to ask the legislator, which is why the initiative is left out and is aware that, because of the absence of the word, all museums in Croatia will be automatically disqualified in competitions for European funds. So there's one huge damage done, and I'm asking you to read why you did it. There have also been some other mistakes, where let's say in art. 3, paragraph 2 is regarded as a museum by any legal person or body, who has a gallery or collection in his name. This means that the museum in Croatia can be the only institution that has on behalf of the museum, galleries and collections. Now, the specific question is, is it, for example, a gliptotheque in Zagreb museum? Is the mention of the Jasenovac Museum area? Is the art pavilion in Zagreb a museum? Is the castle a Trakoscan museum? Is it or isn't it? According to the definition presented by the Proposer, obviously not. So that's some kind of illogicality that should be corrected. On the other hand, the promoter says that he simplifies the procedure, but watch what he does, the Museum Act, was changed 21.10.2015 means approximately 2.5 years ago. In the previous Museum Act, the museum was run by just the three-member council. Since 2015, the museum has been managed by a museum council of five members. And now, after 2.5 years, the legislator reintroduces the administrative council. Is it simplification or is it immobilized red tape? So, in particular, if the administrative council is now reintroduced, and until a moment ago there was a museum, i.e. also administrative, how many times must the statute be changed? How many times do museum rules have to change? How many times do they have to change the documents? And what's the point of such changes at all, is just to be able to re-election, to be able to set up my people, not to say a more difficult word, or to have some other meaning, which we don't really know here. Another question, which is very interesting, is why there is a study of museumology in Croatia and museums do not work by museologists. So museums employ all the professions except museum scientists. Until, for example, in libraries, no one can be hired except for a librarian. So you have a library study and a librarian has to work in libraries. You have a museum study, and you have museums where no one works. So what makes us humane, if these personnel can't work in their profession, o9dn, can work for them anyone else, whether it's a historian, archaeologist, art historian, IT or some other occupation, it's not clear that there's going to be an improvement in expertise from this law. I hope we all know that museums are essentially the most important presentation. So the key is how you're going to present the building to visitors, and it's not that important to scientific processing itself, even though it's important. So here are some questions, which we have about this law, and I would like to finally call once again, that everyone, not just the Ministry of Culture, understands the importance of connecting cultural heritage with the complete presentation of Croatia, especially in tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77145	I thank my esteemed colleague Bunjc, we have several replicas, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will look back on this part of your presentation where you spoke about the possibility of using cultural goods, i.e. cultural heritage for tourist purposes, namely, it is clear to all of us that tourism has indeed become one great, global force dominated by developed Western countries, and more and more smaller countries, like Croatia, see their opportunity to participate in the global economy in this segment, therefore, in tourism itself. First of all, there is a need to take care of a newer, different experience and understanding of culture as primarily an economic category, and now, if we take into account the fact that in many transition and post-transition countries, and among them in Croatia, therefore, in the development of cultural institutions during history, the emphasis was exclusively on one-way financing, therefore, from the bottom down. There is, however, a reason for the introduction of market rules of operation as a basis for thinking about market earnings, therefore, culture and thinking, in fact, culture as an income sector, and then on the basis of that and cultural tourism as a sector of profit. And on this very trail we have the fact that cultural tourism today represents and makes one of the fastest growing sectors, that is one of the fastest growing forms and visions of selective forms of tourism, and that is exactly what it actually opens up a space for the need for long-term planning of investments in culture that can then and should bring financial gain. I would say that in fact there is this problem and the problem, in fact, the political strategy of each country, and in this sense I welcome the opening of a space for commercial activity, this museum activity that is provided for by certain provisions in this Law and, of course, take care of the socio-cultural consequences and the consequences of tourism on the environment in terms of valorisation of tourist goods. Excuse me, I know I'm...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77147	I thank my colleague. Here, I didn't interrupt you so there wouldn't be discrimination. Here you go, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77148	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bedekovic, you are absolutely right that cultural tourism is a tool that can increase income, both states and units of local self-government and citizens themselves. As proof of that, it's enough to get us out here on Mark's square. So here, let's say, 24 hours a day, tourists come, even after a late night, and we see that practically all the streets that approach Mark's square have content for tourists. So they practically live on them. In the same way, many other environments could live, but unfortunately we see that in the Republic of Croatia, possibly 2-3 museums have such a function. For example, a slightly larger number of tourists come to Vukovar, the Vukovar Museum and the Krapina Museum, while a number of other museums that would, for example, be visited in some world contexts and not to say, are half-empty. And that's really not good. So, you can also do a lot of souvenirs, you can do manifestations, you can do presentations, I don't know, old crafts, old houses, folk customs. That's all people care about, what they want to see. Why do people visit I don't know, Paris, Vienna, Rome, Budapest? Do they visit because there is no food or drink or visit because they know that they will see a top culture and preserved tradition there. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, old houses are being destroyed, even castles and churches are being destroyed, and in fact, very little work is being done to preserve that cultural heritage, and it can all be connected right into museum activity. It can be summed up into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77149	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Next replica. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you have had a very contentious and interesting discussion. You've touched many points that we, too, will touch on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. In fact, the first thing I wanted to tell you about your comment on how many other countries may have an unexpected higher income from tourism than the Republic of Croatia. For example, it is understandable how one Sweden, which may not be the first to think about tourist destinations when we think about them. It is a large country with a rich history and, in fact, a large flow of wheat visitors can have a greater tourist income, but it is much less clear to me when we talk about countries that are less attractive, perhaps touristic than Croatia, which have comparable or higher profits. There we certainly have ourselves to imagine and try to think about the problem. And just for a little while, in the end, your comment on the museologists and how much they hire. Maybe we should get some information on that after all. I don't know if you've been looking at any data on the number of employees with that profession, or with that calling, but generally, I can agree because that's what we're talking about. It is a major topic of educational reform, about the existence of many illogicalities. For example, linguists, this is a colleague of Putica also by profession, can only be employed at institutes and universities. There's nowhere else you can get a job as a linguist. So there is a need otherwise for, but that is also said in the European Commission and the SDP's report on it for a very long time and many other parties in this House, that our education system is being evaluated in general and that we see, to change things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77151	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77152	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glavasevic, we simply do not know how to present. Here, we have an ancient salon. Imagine that ancient Salona, for example. in Italy, that he's in Japan or that he's in France. Would she stand used? What's the HDZ government predicting there with Salon? Bury her again. So, to bring the country and bury an archaeological site because they don't know what to do with it, it's a matter of simple misunderstanding and very bad management. See for example. you have in Slovenia the village of Kobarid, where the Great Battle of World War I was held in 1917, in that village 70 000 Italians come every year. They sell every apple, every cheese, every liter of milk, whatever these peasants are producing there, and even if they don't know anything about beings, they have a huge benefit. They usually have an open-air museum, it's the same special phenomenon, I'm interested in how anything that's open in Croatia would have survived, it would have been broken down within six months and stolen. And as far as professions are concerned, it's true that we don't have to insist on going to say, some sectarianism or that only one profession can work in a particular workplace but it's not good that there's not a single museologist in museums, so we have museums that don't employ a single museologist. And I repeat once again, the museologist is the key to putting the building in a permanent setup. And without his knowledge, it's just not possible. What are we training these staff for? Where they'll work if they don't work where they're told only the name of their jobs, so museums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77153	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Bunjc. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77154	Thank you very much. Dear Bunjac, you mentioned numerous historical sights of museums that were not visited in the Republic of Croatia and from our territory throughout the Republic of Croatia. I can only say that in my area where I come from, we have museums and alkarian palaces where the newly built museum where the state and knight's society, the city of Sinj, the county, invested 90 million kuna. It may be in the southern part of Croatia one of the most beautiful objects, the centre of culture at the moment. However, the fact is that a very small number of people are visiting, and we have one tradition of Sinjka Alka, religious tourism, miraculous Lady Sinjska and the fact that you should think about the Ministry of Culture together with the educational system that enters the Kurdish reform very important, means that all children in the Republic have the opportunity to visit such museums as you said not only, it is especially good to be Vukovar because of being Vukovar, but the museum is not enough to come just to come political elites and many people of our people who we call to come during Sinjska alka and the Great Lady. It's one great value, it's more than 300 years, one tradition that's been recognized in the world, but it's poorly exploited and such numbers of events that we have in my area, and I think together with, here, I'd just ask how many children have visited the Alkar Museum in Sinj, I'm sorry that it's not designed in another way, let alone to have tourists come to us on the side, so we don't value ourselves and the education system doesn't value our values of the historical that we have, and these are museums and in which the state has invested a lot. That is why I expect the Ministry of Education and Culture to work together to give our children a chance to get acquainted with our history and thus to sew knowledge of our history and visit the museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77155	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Answer, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77156	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, let's say you mentioned a very valuable museum, I'm now asking myself how it's possible that I wasn't in that museum, and obviously there's simply not enough as I said, an incentive to inform and direct myself into an area. That's what I was saying during my exposure that in the world there are so-called. museum routes, so you as a tourist get a ticket right into your hands where all your museums are drawn, be careful in France, buy one ticket for all museums. So when you buy one ticket, you automatically have a entrance to 10 other museums that they actually make you go and take advantage of that opportunity to see these museums. And then normally, then you say, well one I look at, I can look at this same ticket to another 5 or 9 museums, and then we go on, and normally every time you come to a place, you as a consumer are going to leave some money in that place and so we're actually going to say, encourage and tourists to spend. When I mentioned these tourists coming here at Mark's square outside, and we see that 90% of them are from the countries of the Far East, I guess it's the Chinese and the Japanese and the Koreans, I'm asking you how much do you have written in Chinese for cultural content here? You don't have one, you have one in Ban Jelačić Square where it says "Welcome" and that's it. I haven't even seen that there are some inscriptions in some other world languages, but I repeat, if people come to you and if these people can potentially contribute to an increase in income, why don't we go out and meet these people? They just pass through here like some bus station, I'm not sure they've been working with as much as they could. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77157	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague, Bunjc. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77158	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, honourable MP Bunjac. In your debate, you talked a lot about the role, heritage in the tourist offer, promoting protection, restoring and including valuable Croatian heritage in the tourist offer, tourist and museum professions should work together to unite the cultural and tourist offer of the Republic of Croatia. Cultural heritage is part of our history, it is a confirmation of our existence in these areas of the seventh century and civilization of ancient Greece, Rome and the Stone Age. Museums are public and non-profit institutions, whether there is an even greater connection to tourism activities, except for the involvement of museums and their construction in the education system of the Republic of Croatia. 18% of the share of tourism in GDP is saying something that needs to be further developed in order to make the offer more acceptable, bigger and more similar in other countries. The Apoxyomen in Veli Lošinj increased the tourist visit, and thus the profit. What do you think, what should you do or what would you recommend to do with Tito’s Seagull ship that is anchored in the port of Rijeka? What do you think we should do with the II monuments? World War II, should we use what the Hungarians have done or leave them in the same positions as they are, so they are exposed to what they know and there are those who irritate certain citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77159	Thank you, colleague Kirin. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77160	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So history can't change, unfortunately. Nor can people change their minds. Someone may not love Tito as much as they want, but the fact that there's a lot of people who love him. And then you just have to take advantage of it, present it, if someone who's getting on their nerves, I don't know Tito or anyone else, they won't go there. But the one who is only interested, and only because of that he wants to come to Croatia, should be allowed to see it. So you have, I don't know, I've been to France and you have in France for example. German museums, German cemetery, that's where the Germans come in, that's no bother. On the other hand, I don't know, as you said yourself, you have at the Russian Stalinism Museum, in Hungary you have one park where they brought all the communist monuments that all can be seen as they are, so none of them has been torn down, etc. Serbia makes a great living at the house of flowers. Some spoke there, voices appeared, we're going to break Tito's grave with hammers, raised dynamite, etc. They were smarter, they just let it work, and today you have a bunch of tourists there, despite you having regrets I don't know which nationalists and I don't know who, etc. I just don't think that from your history you can't history, if you can't escape, then use it in a way that everyone can benefit from it. So, I'm not for the destruction of the monument, I'm not for closing the museum, I'm simply for their re-use, I'm for possible re-interpretation, but I definitely think history is what it is and it's not our fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77161	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Steve Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77162	Dear Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, history is what it is and you can't change it, but we should talk about history in one way and in one way, and that's the true way history speaks, and we in Croatia, as well as in all, have very big problems both in culture and in culture. So I would point to one problem, especially recorded with us, and these are unlicensed tourist guides that appear on both the Adriatic and all over Croatia. Both in the Croatian Parliament and he says what is not true, but I will talk about war tourism. We have Vukovar, we have Dubrovnik so now imagine an unlicensed tourist guide from Podgorica talking about Srdje, the battle of Srdje. Either imagine someone from Vukovar, from Borov or some friend who's a friend of theirs and thinks nice of them so he can talk about the war in Vukovar or if he's still lying about the war in Vukovar. Imagine how this affects the tourist who comes and now receives knowledge of Srdja from Vukovar, but from those who were on the other side or from those who were on their side, we witness it in the Croatian Assembly daily where we interpret the same thing in 5 different ways, and I believe you. If you want good Croatian tourism to tell us about Vukovar wartimes who knows what it was like in Vukovar and Srdje, the warrior Croatian defender... about the battle at Srđ as they defended Srđ, that we know the truth, and that truth that he knows the whole world, not that he goes to America, New York or I don't know where and that he brings the truth that Podgorica saved Dubrovnik and that Borovo Selo saved Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77163	Thank you, colleague Culey. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77164	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey. So tourist guides should be educated, I agree that it's funny to have examples that some tourist guide actually doesn't know what happened at the place where he brought some tourists, but that's what you have in the world. Unfortunately, it's not just a Croatian phenomenon. However, when you mentioned Vukovar, see how important this presentation about Vukovar is. It therefore,9 not only brings certain benefits to people who work there, normally primarily employees, etc., but simply brings enormous political benefits to the Republic of Croatia. We can simply explain this presentation to a man who only came to Croatia, a thousand times better than what happened in Vukovar, than I don't know which political party. So it's just enough to come, I don't know, to the Vukovar cemetery, enough to come to the Sheepman and the man who has any salt in his head, within five minutes he'll figure out what happened there. And the benefit is huge for the state because it shows what happened in the Homeland War, shows what the Croatian state, which is our identity, etc. So it's very important that, let's say a visual presentation where a man can see a material culture, where a man can see a legacy, where on the spot with his own senses, everyone at his disposal, can learn the truth. And there should be more places like that. I'm advocating the same as you for the Homeland War to be presented in a number of other places where such tragic events happened, because then the truth will break into the world faster and then the citizens themselves will be able to reach a consensus faster in some of the issues that this has been about for two decades or I don't know how slow they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77165	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77166	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here, fellow Bunjac, in your discussion, you mentioned this problem, therefore, that it was removed by the Museum Act that they were no longer profitable, that they were no longer non-profit institutions. That you have well-determined, in fact, that there will be problems, about reporting to EU funds, why is that important? I think that it should be partially commercialised, of course, that museums may be able to make some money, but it is very difficult to expect that this commercialisation will make up for what you can get from EU funds. I'm talking, normally from the perspective of smaller environments and smaller museums, because it's actually the only chance that some more collections might be added to rebuilding these museums, etc. So I believe that this formulation, however, will change a little, to leave that possibility, of course, that some funds are withdrawn from the EU. About the musician, I would not agree here until the end with you, because again you have a problem with the staff, I know from my own experience, it is very difficult to find and meet those conditions, let's say for the director of the museum, so that's 5 years of working experience in culture, actually leading jobs in the museum or 10 years of working experience in culture. It's very difficult to find the right staff here, and it's a good thing that the law is put in place, that after a re-competition can occur after a year of work, because it's very difficult to find such people in the smaller environments. Once again, there is a big difference, so you have museums that are part of large systems, I will refer, to here, to the example of Krapina Zagorje County, therefore, the Museum of Croatian Zagora and they are completely through the Ministry of Culture has resolved funding. And you have a mass of smaller museums, in smaller units of local self-government which I only repeat again, through funds, can secure their own development and find, in fact, persons but there is again a question of, of course, decentralisation and providing financial resources so that they can even start and hire people in their own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77167	I would like to thank Mr. Vesligai, the answer, Comrade Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77168	Thank you, well-respected Vedligaj, it is interesting to note and repeat that, in that proposal, the law that sent the e-consultation was written by a non-profit institution. So they only removed that word during the e-consultation on someone's intervention. As far as I've been able to read the e-consultation, and it's really 100 pages or more, so maybe by some miracle I missed, I haven't seen anyone complaining about it, which means it's the Ministry's intervention. Why and for whose benefit I don't understand, commercialisation can be a means of assistance, but not at all a major asset. So, for example, you can sell souvenirs, but souvenirs that have connections to the museum, books that have to do with the museum again. I don't know, you could have taken pictures in historical costumes, offered ethnographic works and products. But it can't be in a museum, I don't know, now let's say we start a disco club or it can be in a museum called, open up a consumm store, that definitely shouldn't happen. So this commercialisation must be secondary, and it must be directly related to the contents that the museum offers, which are, above all, culture, tradition, heritage and history of archaeology. As for this employment, I did not say that the museologist was the director, but I said that every museum should have an employee of at least one museologist, but unfortunately in Croatia we have large even museums, which do not have any museologists. I just don't think it's logical and that we should work on hiring professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77169	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. He'd take the opportunity to welcome the students and students of the Slavonski Brod Economic Bureau School who joined us at the gallery. We're continuing the debate. [[Applause]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, assistant minister. We have before us the first reading of the Museum Law and we believe, of course, in the positive outcomes of this law that I'm going to count. In addition to changing the name of the administrative body of the museum, the name of the administrative council shall also be returned and the conditions for members of the administrative councils who can be only higher education in the future and the work of the expert council shall be defined. The managerial role of the museum is also strengthened by prescribing conditions in the selection of directors for professions outside the museum profession. For the first time, it is introduced into the law by the central parent body for museums, the organisational form of the museum system, the Museum Documentation Centre of the Institute, which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia and which is given the role of organizers and coordinators of the work of museums within the organisational system. The process of invertarising the entire museum building in the Republic of Croatia is also planned by the end of 2020, in line with the information and technical level of literacy of the modern digital age and with the aim of achieving final impact. The actual number of museum objects and museum collections that are stored in museums of the Republic of Croatia, which has not been updated so far, and their registration as cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia, will answer questions of real quantities and types of national cultural goods, as well as the question of the ownership of the museum building in all museums in the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing today in the Croatian Parliament about this Law on Museums which, unfortunately, is a question of culture, when it comes to the Law on Museums, has observations of defetism, something negative and as if we don't really like to be good at something. If we can boast of anything in the Republic of Croatia, then it must be our culture and heritage and the entire system of museums and such activities in the Republic of Croatia, so I felt like I was in the Danish or Slovenian parliament for a moment because everything is ideal with them, and there is nothing wrong with us. That this is not the case with the statistics on the number of visitors to Croatian museums and the contribution of Croatian museums to the overall cultural activity, especially in the tourist numbers that are of paramount importance to us, and in the strategy of tourism of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is one whole measure relating to cultural tourism. The Republic of Croatia is a country that can truly boast of rich heritage, culture as a significant form of national identity, and museums as part of our rich cultural building and offer are extremely important, so it is important to further define and prescribe museum activities with this new law. We therefore have before us the first reading of the Law on Museums that passed the public debate, which passed the consultation, all the necessary procedures of the Government, and many will say that the Law has not seen any significant changes in relation to the Law adopted in 2015. But I would say that in those provisions that I have recently cited, I would like to improve the work of museums, refresh business, which is extremely important, but also that the new proposal also includes the provisions that were positive, for example, as I have stated, the name and role of the administrative council. We certainly need to know, as we read this Law, how it will be followed by a whole series of legal data, especially rules, such as rules. The rule on the conditions and manner of acquiring professional titles in the museum profession, on professional and technical standards for determining the type of museums, on the content and manner of running, construction, etc., and it is important to stress that for the first time the central parent body for museums, museum documentation centre, the institution to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia is given the role of the organizer and coordinator of the work of museums. The operation of such a central state body should also be introduced into the practice of museum work in the Republic of Croatia. This Law also wants to define the commercial role of the museum that we have heard a lot about here today, as the primary space and institution of public interest. Therefore, nothing in this Law is contrary to the commercial activity of the museum and its public interest and its public openness, but this provision is there to promote the self-sustainability of such institutions and the application of institutions to EU funds, especially if we know of such good practice in well-developed EU countries. It also seems important to me to point out, and looking at the entire museum activity, that in the Republic of Croatia every year we have more and more excellently designed and creatively justified museum spaces that are available and attractive for all generations of visitors, and how we can say that museums with their construction, professional work of museum employees, interesting facilities enrich our tourist offer and its being an important and financial participant. In addition, museums are increasingly open in the Republic of Croatia, which can be said from their own experience, increasingly open to the youngest, for education programs, workshops, pedagogical activities, which, of course, have their own educational purpose of attracting young people to culture. We show therefore, in our museums and foreign cultural buildings and heritage, but museums are extremely important to us to preserve national identity as well. I note that the HDZ Club will support this Law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77172	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanja Putici. We have one replica. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Putica, I fully share this comment on the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament on this subject and that it acted, as you said, defetistly, negatively. You're right. This happens, this is neither the only topic nor the only and first time that it happened in this assembly, and this usually happens when colleagues and colleagues who might call it ultra-creatidarians, no. You know what.../The speaker speaks Latin./... There are people here who, this is a topic from culture, but there's also some colleagues from your club who wouldn't recognize culture coming after them on the street, hitting them with Belostenj's Gazophilacium on their backs and saying, hey, I'm a culture. When such people get involved in the debate, yes, the level of quality of this debate falls and then they talk about everything else instead of what we should talk about. I'm not saying it's only your club representative's fault. We have all the burden in it, no club of MPs here has been vaccinated by occasional episodes of it, but I mean, let's be aware that at this point at least, we have the privilege of discussing much more civilized than it was before the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77174	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. The answer to a respected colleague named Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77175	Here you may have said something that the Croatian public thinks, but I do not feel invited to talk about the level of cultural education of certain MPs in the Assembly, they are all elected to this Parliament and we are all equal by it. However, I was sorry to hear the debates in which I have already highlighted, how Croatia is actually ahead of many things in Europe, trying to politicise and in some way polarize into party membership. What we have here in the bill of law and even selecting members of the administrative council of museums, I actually see as one public invitation to the Ministry of Culture, to all persons who feel competent and who have for this an appropriate education to report to the competition for members of the administrative councils so that our museums, of course, have competent guidance and improve their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77176	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague, Putica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77177	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this first reading of this bill, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, although we have one considerable amount of observations, we will support this bill, because we believe and believe that at least one part of our comments, which are ultimately not only comments from our club representatives, but also from some others, will be respected and that by the second reading of this law will actually be given one more quality proposal. The first thing I would like to refer to is something that my colleague Bunjac had already mentioned, which is a question of the definition of museums. Namely, although the definition of the International Museums Committee, ICOM, which defines museums as non-profit institutions, is accepted in the final proposal for the text of the word. As my colleague Bunjac pointed out, we agree with that and this is a colleague of Velligaj was also mentioned in one of his replicas, we believe that this is quite problematic, first of all from the perspective of the funds. A colleague of Bedeković also touched on the subject of non-profits, i.e. market and market needs and museums, of course, while we agree in principle that there is no reason why culture is also not a profit activity and so is the museum institution, we believe, however, that we must be aware of the fact. And the fact that there are two private museums in the Republic of Croatia of 157 enrolled in the witness museums. So it's actually telling us that at least right now, at least at this point, although there may be a will to change that in the future, some profitability of these museums or their insistence in competitions is not at some level at which they may exist in other countries. And that from that perspective, however, it should be kept in mind that these museums, these other non-private ones, should facilitate the application of funds. So, we would, given that this is one, that this definition by ICOM is an international definition, we would really like to call here and make this comment to consider that definition again. We also believe that it is not irrelevant in Article 3 as it is proposed at the e-consumption to be automatically, that museums are considered institutions that have in their name galleries or collections or word museums. There are, for example, like before, museums that have other names, which do not have those words in their name, which are actually museums. The Court of Trakoscan, Gliptotheka, mentions the area of Jasenovac, the house of Shenoa, the Art Pavilion. These are just examples, so we should consider the same thing. Therefore, Article 7 paragraph 11 states that the museum is carrying out a market value assessment. The question is, how can this museum work? No, and I think the same thing was mentioned earlier, professionals working in museums are in principle not educated to assess market value. The curator of a museum can assess the artistic value and the like, but not the market value. Article 16 states that the museum is established as a foundation, an association or a company. We believe that associations and foundations are clean if we talk about the level of professionalism, that it should be considered how appropriate that this provision exists in this way, simply because amateur museums rarely meet some level of professionalism and criteria that should be met. Finally, our final observation should actually be related to Article 26 in which, in conditions for the appointment of museum directors, the condition of one year of experience is required. We think it's too small. For the museum director, however, the condition should be at least 3 years of experience. That would be some of our remarks, I say this is the first reading, we really hope that everything you've heard in these discussions so far, that you'll sort of consider and that by the second reading, we'll get one more quality proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77178	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. We have two replicas, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, yes, I would just like to reiterate once more and to point out, I am pleased to note that part of my replica in which I spoke about the importance of commercialisation and giving, the opening of the space of commercial activity of the museum which, through me through this legal solution is at least what it is, really does not conflict with the dominant activity of the museum, which is primarily the presentation, promotion and protection of national cultural heritage, which is certainly important, is equally important to enable in terms of profit and non-profit activities, to enable museums to report on the application of projects to EU funds, and what I primarily wanted to highlight, the need to understand culture as an economic category precisely in accordance with the experiences of many developed countries that are considering and considering the market gain of culture as an income sector in terms of cultural goods in terms of tourism and in this sense in terms of cultural tourism tourism tourism tourism as well as I have said in terms of the experience of their fast-growingness of tourism. I think we need to think about that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77180	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. My colleague Glavasevic's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77181	Thank you. My colleague Bedeković, therefore, I don't think that anyone disputes that a country like Croatia, like many other Mediterranean countries with a rich history, particularly anciently, which there is a large part of their cultural heritage, has, of course, become some kind of commercial, touristic function. So it's totally okay, but maybe this isn't the situation for that, but maybe we should talk about some kind of basic view of culture. For me, I believe that culture is not primarily economic activity and that some primary purpose of culture should not be economic activity. Of course, in a time where we live with a huge amount of experience and in other countries, it is possible to make a solution that meets this economic need, but it takes care that culture is not considered primarily as commercial activity. The culture is primarily the common heritage of all people, of all citizens of this country, and then especially in cases of ancient heritage in Croatia, the Salona is mentioned here, as well as the heritage of all humanity. We, however proud those words may sound here or not so bitter with regard to the audience, but we have an obligation to think about it that way. And just for a little while, as far as these words are concerned non-profit, I say if it's a new technical thing that in e-consumption was there all the time and then it's gone and which if it's included in the definition will make it easier for the institutions to apply to funds or if those words don't exist, it might be disqualified, then I don't think it's the end of the world to take that word there then and leave especially if e-consultation wasn't really a problem with that. Here's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77182	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic for his reply. The next replica, the esteemed Marco Vedligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77183	Thank you, Vice President. So here's so that it doesn't actually stay in the air, no one's against having certain commercial activities going on within the museum, I'm the first one for which I don't, but then I'll once again warn about this blockade that can happen if we don't withdraw some funds from the EU funds, we know that an extremely large number of projects have been reported on projects of cross-border cooperation, etc. What you mentioned about employment itself, yes, in principle I agree that it should be perhaps several years, but we have one other problem that many people who work in culture are not recognised at all what they were doing through an act contract. So, it doesn't even approve of the law at all, and then you have a very big problem meeting the criteria that exist in the competitions, so we should also consider it given that they are specific activities, because otherwise we're going to have a hard time getting people, I say, in smaller environments that will go to meet the criteria and go to work in some museums and that there are some things that promote and we have a lot of things. Here is probably none of you here know that in my town of Pregrad there was the first production of medicines not only in one area of Croatia, but also in this part of Europe. So we have a pharmacy collection in our museum, but unfortunately we don't have one person employed, and we're currently in a phase to find the director first, so then we're developing it, we have a lot of examples. For example, in Klanjc we have the Museum of European Anthems, it is also not in any larger system, it should also be developed. He's got great new ideas, and he needs to find a real measure to put it that way. And commercially it should be used where we already have a brand. “Old Village” in Kumrovec, our only open-air museum visit about 70,000 a year, if we invest there in promotion, we can do even more but unfortunately because of some ideological obstacles we have not done it anymore but we have to put such things aside. I was once a witness when, behold, you will allow me Vice President, I must say this, therefore, the representatives of Chinese tourist companies were not mentioned at all "Old Village" Kumrovec, and I know that most of them want to see Kumrovec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77184	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesligai. My colleague Glavasevic's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77185	Thank you. Well, fellow Vesligai, it's generally two things to say after your replica that I thank you for. The first one is actually related to what collections look like, I think there are really great examples in Croatia of how museums are organized and that they offer a certain amount of interpretation, not just here come, look, so it makes its own conclusions, I think it's also important to interpret. I had the opportunity recently to see the Bulgarian Museum of their ancient history at the last meeting with the European Affairs Committee. I mean, it's an incredibly ancient treasure that's exposed there, just of course to the amount of interpretation, with the way it's connected to their modern history, so some contextualization of all that. I think that's often missing in Croatia, and that's when examples like you and your Chinese delegation happen. If there is no local person to point them at, then he often knows how to leave it behind. And as for this commercial activity, as I would say, it's important, it's really important that we keep that moment in mind. Because the greatest value actually is the recognition of what our culture is and our cultural heritage can be obtained when we share it with someone who is not aware of it or who knows nothing about it. When we share that knowledge, when we share that history, then we actually get to the greatest of this kind of value for both this country and the people who live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77186	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, respected colleague Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77187	Thank you very much. Since I've already said part of this problem through different replicas to individual colleagues, I'm going to try here in my individual debate to look back at, here's three by me interesting points of this law. So I'm going to talk about museums and museum definitions as an institution. I will talk about the importance of introducing the Museum Documentation Centre as a central one state body and I will talk about providing opportunities and special attention through at least this proposal in the first reading on the development of museums and museum collections in smaller environments. First of all, when it comes to the definition itself, so the museum what is in this proposal shows that the museum is defined as primarily an institution in the service of modern society and its development with the aim of acting out of public interest. I think it is very important to mention this when we define the word museum and therefore the definition of which museum activity is arranged with an emphasis on public and cultural interest, primarily in terms of representation, promotion and protection of national cultural heritage, and with an additional emphasis that is important to me in the time of the 21st century in which we live on the modernisation of museum activity, which I consider extremely important with the simultaneous provision and possibility of carrying out commercial activities that I will once again stress in my opinion does not conflict with the primary and dominant activities of the museum, which is the promotion and protection of national cultural heritage. And once again I will stress absolutely not for the predominant role of the commercial activity of the museum but, above all, for the perception and definition of museums such as, therefore, the institution which is the primary dominant and primary task of preserving, representing and promoting, and then protecting national cultural heritage. However, in the context of the time in which we live, we cannot take into account the experiences of other countries and we cannot close our eyes to the fact that culture, cultural civilization goods in the 21st century in the modern world, are not also seen as an economic category. We can agree to that or not, we don't have to, but we can't close our eyes before that. What I consider necessary is the fact that museums are dominantly funded from the state budget. In doing so, this legal solution opens up a space for financing museums and other sources, which is not negligible. In doing so, I also think about the museum's own activities and also about obtaining funding from EU funds, which is very important. In this regard, when it comes to obtaining funding from other sources, I certainly consider it an important role to be the director of a museum which, apart from, so far, the guardians and protectors of museums as institutions and representations have, is given me a new role and should be given the role of manager who, in modern times, indeed has a role to play, thus promoting museums as an institution for the preservation of cultural heritage, but also an institution that provides the possibility of valorizing cultural goods. What I find important to point out is that through this legal solution, the museum is experienced and defined as a place of awareness, and then the sensitization of the public for the responsible and sustainable use of cultural and natural heritage, above all, as a cultural good, and then through here, giving opportunities, connecting museum and tourism activities, we open up space for cultural tourism, as I have already said about an activity that belongs to one of the fastest growing here selective forms of tourism, and therefore let us not forget that we are soon coming to the European Capital of Culture. We didn't say anything about that. So, the River has been nominated and there will be room for debate on these topics. The second point I wanted to speak of is very important, so the introduction of newspapers into this law through the introduction of a museum documentation centre as a central body that will, not only organise and coordinate the implementation of parent museum activities within the museum system, but also collect and process information on museums, museum buildings, etc. So, keep an eye on, account, therefore, collect data and process statistics and what is equally important, conduct expert examinations for the employees of the museum profession and what is still very important to me, run an eyewitness of public and private museums in the Republic of Croatia with complete documentation. I think that, therefore, I welcome the introduction of this central body and the definition of this law and what I find particularly important, I see this law as one document that opens up space for and pays particular attention to the development of museums and museum collections in smaller environments, which I particularly welcome. We know that with 22 state museums, we have 158 museums that are the founders of units of local self-government that have a whole wealth of different traditional collections that are of little importance to our smaller environments, and in this sense in Article 17, it is predicted that the founder of the museum may be either a unit of local self-government as it has been, but also a legal person in the system, in the majority ownership of local self-government units, which I think is very good because you have a series of examples in small areas where opening, or by establishing a museum, you get a new budget user, if you open the museum as an independent user. And on the other hand, if you set it up as a legal museum owned by a unit of local self-government, I think it opens up a space for a pretty good organisation of museum activity, and without opening a new institution that then falls into the budget of local self-government units and, of course, it is a good solution to then professional supervision of such institutions is carried out within the state administration. What is the next step that will be extremely important, and I am now warning, of course, after the adoption of this law, when it passes our second reading and final solution, it will be important to adopt certain regulations, in particular I consider an essential Regulation on minimum conditions for establishing a museum when it comes to units of local self-government. It will be important to take care of the minimum conditions through which we will then enable, therefore and make it easier for the units of local self-government to establish museums, museum collections according to their own wishes or intentions, either as independent institutions or as institutions in the composition as I said. It might not be a bad idea to take a little care of the conditions for the host, so if the museums were established as an institution in the composition, the same conditions as I saw for both the director and the manager, it might not be a bad idea to think a little bit about the conditions for the manager, someone here spoke and agreed with it, it seems to me that fellow Vesligaj, small-centre problems, units of local self-government that simply cannot find people who would have the conditions to do the job of the head, let alone the director of the museum, so it seems to me that there will be an additional account of this problem and, of course, facilitate and facilitate the units of local self-government to form museums or this other institution in the system. So, to establish museum activity, to enable adequate expert supervision to be carried out, what is most important to enable their sustainability, so in these small environments precisely on one side through funding by the founders, and then by enabling the valorisation of cultural goods through the provision of this commercial activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77188	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic. We have two replicas, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77189	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bedeković, in your presentation, I heard about the need to protect the cultural heritage of the museum and the rest that I fully agree with you. However, I would like to say one thing, because I was on the naked island by chance, which I believe is also part of the museum value of the Croatian state and that leader who led this group while I was present, she was talking, explaining what the naked island was, and she said somewhere in '68. The Goli Island for the criminals of Croatia and the Stalinists opened the year. Look, that's what the head of the Faculty of Philosophy in Rijeka says. I said, ma'am, I'm sorry, but it's not like that. It was the pangs who disagreed with Tito's regime. Unfortunately, the island is still devastated today, I wonder now and ask the public, why is this island not turned into a museum that the Croatian people benefit from it and tell the truth? We're talking about demagogy here, I want all the museums, of course, to be commercially used, that self-government, these locals don't have that much, they can't single out that much for museums. We talk all the time, and we don't actually do anything. I ask openly why this museum wasn't made the way it was and to tell the truth, we're talking about the naked island. How many human fates, thousands, thousands, expelled, murdered and died where... Therefore, we must go from the truth, not speak to be spoken, that the Croatian people hear what we are saying, and in fact we don't solve anything, we have to have our museums and we have practically one beautiful state which is 90% of the museum, we can call it that because tourists are going around, watching all the cities, of course, someone said, Bunjac, we don't even have the right inscriptions in all the languages because people are coming, we should read something and see it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My presentation in this part, we have to talk about the truth, we have to do, we have to show something, but we have to try, we have all kinds of interests and commercial exploitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77190	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Answer, colleague Bedekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77191	So I'm going to start at the end, of course the question is that the opening of a museum related to the location on Golo Island is, in my opinion, a matter of national cultural policy and the interests of the state, so that we can turn this place into a monument and I agree with you here. The same is the question and approaches of the local community, and then, in cooperation with the national level of common forces, turn that place, first and foremost, into a place of pitet, and then into a cultural and historical monument, that's the first. And secondly, what you were saying first about the presentation of the Golog Island to visitors, therefore, is not the only example, there are still a number of similar examples, so that means a question that opens up the problem of professional staff working in individual museums, their education, their level of knowledge, their ideological orientations, if so, and also opens up a space to consider the problems of certified tourist guides at individual sites and therefore, I agree with you that it is absolutely necessary to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77192	I thank my esteemed colleague Bedekovic for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77193	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry. I thank you colleagues Bedeković for telling you one important truth, which is that culture must not be what we put and separate from life and delay in museums, so that they do not belong to life, so that they do not belong to the lives of the economy. Culture was created in certain historical circumstances, it is a witness to historical circumstances and it is the aestheticization of what once happened and therefore has its own value. The speech of culture and cultural good is such that it will be able to outlive all the wrong or wrong narratives. Someone can, and that's why we need culture, because someone can tell the truth about their time, someone can tell the truths from their own history, but at the end of the culture speech like that universal speech, like the speech of what was worthy ultimately outlives all those false speeches. That's why we can't destroy culture. The only thing that can destroy culture is an artist, and that's when he realizes that the idea he wanted to turn into matter, that the matter didn't receive that idea in an adequate way and therefore destroys its work. In theory, it's called the aesthetics of the ugly. When the author, he alone can do so, because he realized that this idea would not be present in the way it should be in all future generations. Therefore, I support this idea of yours to finally realize that, I repeat, art is not something we delay, art is not something and culture is what is the cost of this people, the state, the world, but something that belongs to the world and belongs to the world of economics and therefore we need to find a way to overcome these obstacles to establishing museum activities like those activities that belong to both culture and the world and reality and economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77194	Thank you, colleague Vučetic. Answer, colleague Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77195	My friend, I'm glad you noticed. The basic role, among other things, culture as a civilization's good is to pass it on to generations. If we put culture by ourselves, so we put cultural goods in museums, I will now symbolically say it, and turn them into dusty collections that will stand there and do not show therefore, especially to young people and do not pass on to young generations, we have done nothing. So in this sense, therefore, culture should be regarded as a dynamic category that is emerging and changing under the influence of therefore, the arrival of young generations, and in this sense I am all the time talking about valorising culture, exploiting culture, and of course, for tourist purposes, but then valorising culture in terms of passing on to young generations. When we talk about valorisation of culture for tourism purposes, what the modern developed world is doing, so, all tours, you have a whole, I would call it the institution of European cultural itineraries where you through related tourist arrangements allow the world to get acquainted with certain elements of culture of different civilizations. For example, the pilgrim roads of Santiago del Compostel, I don't know, rural habitat, borderless architecture, rural habitat, for example in the Pyrenees, European silk and textile routes, European paths of Jewish heritage, Sephardt roads, Baroque roads, Viking, Norman roads, military architecture roads, Romantic heritage roads, like the pathways of historical legendary persons, I don't know, Mozart road, Don Quihota road, so all these arrangements are touristic that enable, therefore, the world to know the cultural heritage of different civilizations. Croatian culture certainly has sea and sea and needs to show the world everything that the Croatian people have in me, has such a huge and wide cultural heritage that we simply, not only need, but we have an obligation to make a common contribution to the world's cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77196	Thank you very much, colleague Bedekovic, for your reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77197	Your Honor, Vice President. So, I just got off the phone with the secretary of state, and I said I'd say some things in more detail, and I'll mention one more time what I mentioned to the replica, so the secretary of state didn't have time to answer. So this individual debate of mine is actually more in shape than a few questions, a few of the thematics that have been imposed on me, that have been imposed through talks with museum employees, and also the basis of reading the Law itself and reading the debate itself through public consultation. In this way, here, I would say that this Law has brought some papers, and I believe that whoever is therefore proposing and who has written amendments to the Law itself and introduced this paper is probably going with a good intention, I suppose to make it easier and to make things clearer, to be organized, that, that, that museums do business or activity have their own more effective and that ultimately it is achieved on the one hand and better obtaining additional funds for the work themselves, both through EU funds, through the very improvement of the foundation of activity and attracting a larger number of visitors. But also to see this activity, and also to become, in fact, organized, so that I look through it, that actually, the museum's documentation centre, is introduced as a central body. By mentioning that for the first time, yes. However, it should be mentioned that the museum documentation centre was founded back in 1955 and he carried out his activities I would say very well and quality and is already at the service if I say so well, service museums, therefore, to all museums, both in private and public. Also, I'd say he's already been conducting years of professional exams, right, that's something he's done before. What I might like to emphasise and ask, how much ministry is it when it has already assigned that role, takes care, that everything is organised and will be done in both ways and in what time it will do so, to allow that significant institution to carry out its activities. And the new, assigned activity, is certainly the keeping of eyewitnesses, which if he also has that implication to become public, therefore, is thus given both the MDC and the public authority of the eyewitnesses themselves. And as far as I can see through counseling, they've just warned about the fact that they don't have legal services and that in fact there's a lack of lawyers, one of perhaps possible stones from incentives. The other thing, which I also mentioned to some museums, I also pointed to, so we didn't see that answer, and that's what it was about, therefore, those provisions, the infringement provisions, so there would be one explanation, in that sense, that it would really be about the criminal punishment of the workers working within the museum and doing, I don't know, these activities, meaning these doing these things. I can actually read about it. When we speak, it means that paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 does not regularly enter museum items in an inventory book or does not carry out any other documentation on museum construction or museum activity or professionally does not value museum items in order to establish protection in accordance with the regulations, on protection of preservation, cultural goods, contrary to the provisions of Article 8. paragraph 1 of this Act or entrust the museum structure, museum documentation to the preservation or for the purposes of exposure, etc. This speaks in terms of what concerns, therefore, the organization of the work itself, the entire museum and the employees is in the director. It gets into his part-time job, doing his job. So I wonder if this article is going after the criminal punishment actually or laundering responsibilities with the principal, and in fact, it introduces this new one by me way of sanctioning, infringing the sanctions of the employees themselves, which I find rather odd, if that's the case. It is, the next thing I want to mention, well, here's the thing, there's a lot of talk about that role of the museum, and I actually believe that we have a lot of potential, and that our cultural heritage is, I don't believe, but I do, and I believe that they have recognized many. We have to do a lot here to see it even more. What am I saying that for? Because more and more interpretation centers appear. It's something that doesn't get into the definition of museums. But that's our reality. It is just the interpretation centres, the ones that are now and through projects financed through and through EU funds, and that is very good. It is these interpretation centers that today, I would say, lead the primate in presenting cultural heritage, although often there is neither the original nor what it is, therefore, can be replicas or something, because they are not subject to some strict of ours, this law, precisely in this law that we are talking about right now. But they're extremely attractive, extremely available, extremely acceptable to all visitors. As well as how the ministry actually looks at it. For example, we have a fairy tale house that doesn't enter the museum and is extremely attractive and extremely interesting to everyone in every aspect of tourism and also has these valorizing elements. Next, then, one more thing, this is one specific question for you, the question of digitization. Here, from my city, I have a concrete example of a man who deals with the digitization of old photos of Vodice. It's an extremely good initiative, which at this point is not, it can't be, it's not valorized, why? Because how does the Ministry feel about it now? Whether or not it is possible to valorize and digitize photographs or other objects in a way that it becomes a cultural heritage because at this point it is something that is a replica, something that is not the original. And yet there are museums, there are collections that collect these digital buildings, but still can't be treated as cultural good. Here is some of the specific questions that would talk about the problem itself, and perhaps the need for further reflection. Professional associations have also stressed the need to perhaps, when talking about the article on the Croatian Museum Council as an advisory body, to make it explicitly emphasized that members should be from professional associations because this article and the law are not currently decided. Also in that article where we speak only about museums and activities, there was somewhere and the Museum Documentation Centre also proposed this, and at this point I suggest that not only be introduced that museums are available to all citizens but that they can be explicitly adapted to people with disabilities, to take care of communication that is adapted to the various difficulties of people with disabilities, let's say that the introduction of an easily understood language, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77198	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev, for this debate. Before continuing, I welcome our guest member of the European Court of Auditors, Mr Oscar Heric, who joined us at the gallery. We have one replica, dear colleague Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77199	Dear colleague Alfirev. So here's a quick look at your discussion and maybe just point out and say a few words about the subject you were talking about. Of course, museums are quite attractive in the Republic of Croatia, we know well that museums are visited by a large number of tourists, that there are also Night Museums, etc. and that these are the days when they are especially in the season but also outside the season when museums and other cultural heritage have been visited very much. But what I think and what we can hear from both directors and people who are employed in museums is that it is too little to invest in the restoration of all these museums and cultural heritage, and I believe that more money should be made available and the ministry should be more involved in the implementation of itself and the renovation and investment in it. Here we are in Varazdin County, we have a lot of cultural heritage, we have several museums, we have the Trakoscan Castle, and for many years they've been torturing themselves to try and restore and maintain the situation in all these institutions. When you were talking about associations, it is good that and it would be good and necessary for the associations to get even more involved in the work of the museums themselves and not only in the work of the museums but also in the advice that people sitting in the ministry in such a direct way, given that people coming from the field know best how they operate and what state all these institutions are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77200	I thank my esteemed colleague, Habek. Answer from my colleague, Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77201	Yes, it's true I'm just hoping that this law will go in that direction to help only commercialise that greater level of investment in the museum itself. But as we have heard before, especially when in smaller areas the local environment itself cannot take care of, so we know that cultural good, culture is actually a national treasure, and not only local treasure, and the state needs to take care of it and invest a lot more. And right now, when we're at this opportunity to rebuild through the eu funds, I think we should do everything so that this law, if necessary, is also spoken of as words that will not prevent it, but will contribute, for example. when we talk about non-profit words, so if necessary, although eu funds require such expressions that they are inserted so that museums like this can be restored so that they can have their full achievement through the eu funds. And here's exactly the secretary of state coming from the city where I come from, and we know that through it and right through the eu funds it's been restored very nearly all the fortresses have been restored and these possibilities certainly have. I therefore see no reason not to be more active and through the preparation of all those documentation and all that is necessary to facilitate the museum itself to apply to competitions, and also to ensure through its budget the necessary funds needed to either participate in these competitions or invest themselves...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77202	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alfirev, for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, the final word is the esteemed Secretary of State Ivica Poljičak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77203	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I want to thank you in the first place for today's constructive debate on the new Museum Law Proposal. We have also recorded from all of your comments, all of the issues relating to the matter of the bill itself, so at this stage, I hope, after and I assume from the debate, we will get the support at which we ask you once again, when there is a vote, we will now answer the law in the first reading and as much as we can, considering together with you and with the representatives of the profession, after this constructive debate and that we will respect the new proposal that should be prepared for a second reading. Here, I want to thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77204	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State Mr. Ivica Poljica and the Assistant Minister, Mrs. Marica Mikec of the Ministry of Culture, for voting on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77205	Proposal for a Museum Law, first reading, P.Z. Number 213, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on Museums and 2. All applications and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the final text of the law." Please vote. I find that most of the votes, 112 for and 7 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77206	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us 3 points of the agenda, acts of the CNB: - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2016. - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and implementation of monetary policy for the second half of 2016. - Half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2017. Since we have an article 247. The Rules of Procedure allow us to unite all three points of the agenda, unite the debate, suggest we unite them, does anyone mind? No, thank you. So, based on art. 247. We'll conduct the Rules of Procedure as a united debate. The applicant of the acts shall be the CNB based article. 62. The CNB Act, the debate was conducted by the competent Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the government delivered its opinion. I invite Governor of the CNB, Mr. Boris Vujčić, to explain the information submitted, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77207	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great pleasure and an honor to welcome you again and present to you the half-yearly reports for which they are listed. In the first half of 2016, the recovery of the Croatian economy continues. Data from the State Statistics Institute indicated an average, annual economic growth in the first 6 months. of 2.7% while the data audit showed an even stronger increase than an average of 3.1%. This growth was the result of an increase in all domestic demand components and exports of goods and services. Although its annual growth rate has significantly slowed down, import growth was faster than exports. The first 6 months of 2016 marked an improvement in labour market developments. Thus, overall employment was 1.8% higher compared to the same disease of the previous year, with the highest contribution from trade and service activities. There was also a decline in unemployment, with the need to bear in mind that this decline is the result of new employment as well as erasing from the records for other reasons. Prices continued in the first half of 2016 at the dominant negative impact of energy prices, mainly of world oil prices and other raw materials, and their spill over to domestic prices and the reduction of the administrative price of natural gas. Thus, the annual inflation rate was -1.6%, on the other hand, basic inflation, which does not include agricultural prices and administratively fixed prices, was -0.9% in June. With regard to the trend of the overall price level, it is important to stress that the spread of the downturn in the first half of 2016 has gradually decreased and the share of products whose prices have increased. The share was 57%, which means that the prices of most products increased, while the drop in prices was dominantly related to a smaller number of products and above all to imports. In fact, this means that Croatia has continued to improve international exchange conditions for the third consecutive year. This has a positive impact on the consumer capacity of households and company profitability, as it practically means that the domestic economy can buy more and more import products from export revenues. The financing costs continued to be reduced thanks to high liquidity, supported by an explicit monetary policy of the CNB. In addition to reducing interest rates, the reduction of standards for granting loans to domestic banks was continued, which affected the recovery of the credit demand for businesses and the population. It should be noted that under such conditions, domestic lending has been more favourable than the previous few years. Plasma credit institutions, businesses grew by 3.1% in the first half of 2016, after 2 years of consecutive decline, and the plasma population increased by 0.7% after 7 years. In addition, I would like to stress that there has been a marked growth in credit in kunas. The CNB maintained the explicit character of monetary policy, which is primarily reflected in the large surplus of kuna liquidity, which is the money that banks can freely dispose of, which increased from an average of 6.7 billion kuna in 2015 to 9.2 billion kuna. In view of the favourable liquidity conditions, interest rates on the interbank monetary market have been maintained at historically low levels. With the support of the high liquidity of the CNB monetary system, it continued to determine the stability of the kuna course towards the euro. The average exchange rate per euro, in the first half of 2016, was 0.9% lower, respectively, than the average achieved during the same period of the previous year. Pressures on strengthening the exchange rate of kuna have been linked to good tourist results, growth in inflows of EU funds and expectations related to the announced issue of government bonds on the foreign market. The CNB was intervened in the foreign exchange market at the end of May, with a purchase of 83.5m euros, after which it was stopped strengthening the kuna. Gross international reserves amounted to 12.9 billion euros and were 0.8 billion euros, i.e. 5.6% lower than at the end of 2015. The decline in gross reserves was largely due to a decision taken in January to lift the foreign reserve's foreign exchange reserve at the CNB's account of half a billion euros, allowing banks to manage foreign currency liquidity more flexiblely since the beginning of the year. The net reserves available rose slightly by 1% and amounted to 11.3 billion euros at the end of June 2016. A few sentences about bank business. At the end of the first half of 2016, the assets of banks amounted to HRK 382 billion, down from 3% compared to the end of 2015. Banks achieved 3.5 billion pre-tax profits in the first term. Compared to the first half of 2015, the profit increased by 2.1 billion kuna significantly in most banks, which was keyly affected by the lower cost of correction of values and reservations and the one-time profits of individual banks from the sale of Visa Europe shares. The trend of improving credit quality continued even with the excluded impact of the sale of claims. The share of partially compensateable and fully compensateable loans decreased from 16.7% at the end of 2015 to 15% at the end of the first half of 2016. In the business sector, the share is reduced from 34.7% to 30%, which was strongly affected by the sale of claims. However, if the effect of the sale of the data is excluded, it shall include improved payment of the credit, in particular from clients in pre-demand agreements and with the implementation of the credit. In addition to the collection, the impact of the adsification of claims in a better risk group was also observed, Group A. The improvement in the adequateness of banks' capital to 21.7%, which was driven by the decline in risk exposure with the same growth in regulatory capital. The favourable movements of economic activity in Croatia, which marked the first 6 months of 2016, continued during the second half of the year. The annual real GDP growth rate slightly accelerated compared to the first part of the year, with the growth of economic activity still widespread and with goods and services accelerated due to favourable developments in tourism, and the contribution of net foreign demand was positive. The growth rate of personal consumption has also increased, reflecting the continuation of favourable labour market developments and a noticeable increase in consumer optimism and faster growth of state consumption has been achieved. In the second half of 2016, only the growth of fixed capital investments slowed. The labour market also continued to recover, the number of employees continued to increase strongly, and compared to the same period of the previous year, growth of 1.9% contributed most to the service activities of the private sector. According to labour poll data, the unemployment rate dropped to an average of 12.2%, significantly less than in the same period of the previous year. Average gross earnings increased during the second half of 2016 by 1.6% year-on-year, while their real growth in purchasing power was even more pronounced. As regards inflation, at the end of 2016 the opening of a slight growth in the general level of prices at the annual level after a very long period of mild negative inflation. This has contributed most to strengthening import inflation pressures, i.e. rising prices of oil and other raw materials on the world market, and to the smaller part and growth of inflation in the euro area, and to strengthening domestic demand. The annual rate of inflation in Croatia increased from -1.6% in June to 0.2% in December 2016, which contributed most to reducing the negative contribution to energy prices. It was determined by the accumulation of oil derivatives and the effect of the base period i.e. A significant drop in these prices in the second half of 2015. In economic relations with abroad, favourable developments also continued, the overall annual surplus in the current and capital account exceeded 3.5% of GDP at the end of 2016. The net capital outflow from Croatia, although weaker than in the same period of the previous year, reflects the deleveraging of domestic sectors in particular banks, which has contributed to further improving relative indicators of foreign debt and the net state of international investment. High liquidity in the domestic international financial market favoured the decline of active and passive interest rates in business banks in Croatia. This, along with more favourable expectations of businesses and populations, led to a rise in credit demand and a rise in plasma. Plasma credit institutions have increased by 3% after 2 years of decline and the population has increased after 7 years of contraction by half a year. In addition, I would like to point out again that the primary source of funding was kuna especially for the population sector. The monetary policy feature remained very expansional. This is primarily evident in the strong growth of further surplus liquidity, which remained at a high level of 6 billion kuna during the second half of 2016. A particularly strong increase in surplus liquidity was achieved at the end of the year when the CNB created significant liquidity for foreign exchange operations by preventing the appreciation pressures on domestic currency. In such conditions, the average weighted overnight interest rate on the interbank money market fell to 0.08% in December after being 0.24% in the first half of 2016. The high kuna liquidity has been further strengthened and two structural repo operations, thus strengthening the trend in reducing domestic interest rates, strengthening kuna lending of banks and contributing to the downturn in the country's long-term borrowing. In July and November, CNB totalled €281.9 million to 4 years at an interest rate of 1.4% If 711.5 million were added in the first half of the year at an interest rate of 1.8%, the total amount of long-term kuna liquidity created by these operations reached €91.4 million. Continuing and conducting regular weekly reverse REPO operations, the fixed repo rate was reduced from half to 0.3%. The average balance of funds based on regular weekly operations was 191 million kuna. With the support of the high liquidity of the monetary system, the CNB of course continued to maintain the stability of the kuna exchange rate towards the euro in order to ease the appreciation pressures, the CNB intervened on the foreign exchange market and bought nearly one billion euros from banks. The gross international reserves at the end of 2016 amounted to 13.5 billion euros which was 1.4% lower than at the end of 2015, the factors affecting the fall of total international reserves were the abolition of mandatory decommissioning of the foreign currency at the beginning of the year and the reduction of the balance in the foreign exchange account of the Ministry of Finance at the CNB. In addition, the lower level of REPO business and the sale of foreign exchanges to the European Commission. On the other hand, the net reserves made a strong billion-euro growth as a result of the primarily mentioned strong exchange buy-in to reduce or slow down the adjection pressures. As far as reserve investments are concerned, the CNB is investing in financial institutions and investment credit rating countries, in the management of security and liquidity principles. At the end of 2016, about 58% of the total international reserves of the Croatian National Bank were invested in countries, banks and institutions whose credit rating is within the two highest rankings. Then at the bank for international alignments and... the fund and the effective foreign money in the CNB vault. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Despite the negative rates of the European part of the curve, up to 5 years of maturity for the entire European part of the net reserve, the rate of return of 0.59% was achieved in 2016. Total rate of return for total... The portfolio was 1.26% and the $1.75% dollar investment portfolio, while the European investment portfolio achieved a 1.10% return. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the end of 2016, bank assets amounted to 387 billion kuna, a slight decrease compared to the year before. The reduction of assets has been strongly affected by the conversion of loans in Swiss francs into European loans, exchange rate movements, the sale of non-refundable claims and the exit of two banks from the system. After the loss in 2015 caused by the cost of credit conversion, the profitability of banks recovered in 2016. The average yield on the asset and the average return on capital reached the highest values recorded since 2008 was 1.6, and 9.6%, respectively. In 2016, banks made 6.4 billion kunas before tax, with a key contribution to reducing the cost of rectification, as well as one-off incomes such as sales of equity shares and non-performing claims. Sales of plasma were significantly intensified during 2016. The banks totalled nearly 6 billion kunas, mostly non-payments, which is twice the year before and quadruple more than 2014. On the one hand, a number of factors, on the one hand the business strategy of the banks of mothers of domestic banks, were affected by the higher presence of companies specialising in the purchase of such placements on the domestic market and, finally, probably the main reason, the progressive rules of the Croatian National Bank to which banks, starting in 2013, are ordered to issue additional value corrections for non-refundable placements. As plasma reserves grow, so encourage banks to sell them as well. Sales of plasma, large majority, 75% refers to the debt of legal persons. They take place at a significant discount compared to the nominal value on average of around 70% in 2016. Such large discountes in sales make it easier for debtors to make deals with new creditors who have a significant space to restructure the debt. This space has, among other things, been created by a stricter regulation to cover non-payments by value corrections. As a result, these regulatory banks have significantly increased reservations over the last few years for their outstanding claims, reducing their net book value. The cleaning of non-payments from the balance sheet can restore financial sustainability to some debtors and also create favourable bases for faster credit growth in the medium term. In 2014, the CNB took steps to protect consumers from the sale of plasma. In particular, a decision has been taken which regulatoryly prohibits the introduction of debtors into a more unfavourable position in the purchase of their debts, i.e. that the seller and acquirer of the claim, i.e. the new believer, are compatible with the potential damage suffered by the consumer, if they come into a legal or truly unfavourable position. This provision was subsequently introduced into the text of the Credit Institutions Act. In the end, I will also comment on the fiscal policy, which in the second half of 2016 marked the continuation of a strong reduction in the deficit, given that revenue growth was more visible than expenditure growth. A strong growth in tax revenues has been achieved through considerable work due to recovery of economic activity, as well as the increase in capital revenues, which can be linked to better use of EU funds. On the bulky side of the budget, most of the components in the second half grew, while expenditure on social benefits and interest was reduced. The continuation of favourable economic fiscal developments during the second half of 2016 also reflected a reduction in borrowing costs, as well as a reduction in the general government debt ratio and gross domestic product. The positive developments in the economy recorded in 2016 were continued during the first half of 2017. Economic activity continued to grow, and real GDP increased by almost 3% compared to the same period of the previous year. The annual growth of real GDP has contributed most to the growth of exports of goods and services. So after EU entry to date, the growth of trade exports was 40%. It is 40% higher than before we entered the EU, and the number of companies in Croatia that export from the beginning of 2013 is three times higher, so three times more businesses in Croatia are exporting today than they were five years ago. That, therefore, was the main stopper of recovery. The labour market has also continued to recover in line with GDP growth and employment has increased by 1.8% and thanks to the private sector as a whole. At the same time, unemployment continued to decrease rapidly, and the unemployment rate dropped to an average of 12.5% from 14.1%) in the first half of 2016. In doing so, unemployment has partly contributed to the decline of the active part of the population due to increased emigration flows. In addition, strong and widespread growth in average gross wages was achieved, and the increase in average net wages was even more pronounced due to legal changes in the taxation of income from work. As far as inflation is concerned, it significantly increased in the first half of 2017 mainly due to the strengthening of import inflationary pressures again. The annual rate of consumer price inflation rose from 0.2% to 0.7%. The highest contribution has been made to the prices of processed food products, in particular milk and butter. The rise in inflation has eased the price of electricity due to a decrease in VAT rates to electricity from 25% to 13% in January. With the recovery of the domestic economy and favourable conditions in the international environment, positive trends in foreign relations continue. The balance on the current and capital account slightly improved compared to the same period of the previous year, most thanks to tourism, then increased use of EU funds, and lower interest costs as interest rates fall everywhere. What we also saw is a continuation of deleveraging, and the continuation of deleveraging again further reduces interest costs especially in terms of favourable financing conditions both in Croatia and in the international market. The Croatian National Bank has again maintained the very expansional character of monetary policy, which is primarily reflected in large-scale excess kuna liquidity, which is the money that banks can freely dispose of. He doubled to 15.7 billion kuna to 7.6 billion kuna in 2016. The CNB created liquidity primarily through foreign interventions that contributed to the growth of international reserves. Again, primarily by defending strong appreciation pressures on the kuna due to surpluses in the current balance of payments account and the balance of payments capital account. The volume of credit institutions to businesses increased in the first half of 2017 by 2.9%, which is equal to growth throughout 2016. The crediting of the population also continued to increase, up from 0.5% to 2.1%. In 2017, banks continued to clean up their balance sheets by selling bad, or non-payments. In addition to maintaining this surplus liquidity of the CNB monetary system, it continued to maintain the stability of the kuna exchange rate. I say there is a continuation of appreciation pressure so that we bought 425m euros from the banks to reduce the appreciation pressures. Gross international reserves at the end of June 2017 amounted to 14 billion euros, which is half a billion euros or 3.8% higher compared to the end of 2016. The main factors, the purchase of foreign exchanges from banks, higher levels of contracted repo transactions, and profits achieved from reserve management. Net international reserves which do not include European Commission and Ministry of Finance funds in accounts with the Croatian National Bank, special rights... The International Monetary Fund, as well as investment in repo jobs, increased by 400m euros or 3.2% and ended in June at 12 and a half billion euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would also now refer to bank operations in particular for 2017 in light of the materialisation of the risk of Agrokor which occurred in 2017. In the first half of 2017, bank assets decreased by 2.3%. The main reason for the reduction of assets is the strengthening of the exchange rate of kuna. As the balance sheet is largely expressed in euro and in assets and in liabilities, any increase in kunas reduces the statement and the balance in kunas, resulting in more than 60% of the change or reduction. Excluding the impact of the bank's asset exchange rate, it actually fell by only 0.9%. This is fully explained by the materialisation of credit risk by the sale of non-income loans. The profit of pre-tax banks was 1.2 billion kuna, which is three times lower than in the same period in 2016. Profitability of average assets and profitability of average capital decreased to 0.6% and 3.6%. This is exclusively the result of the materialisation of credit risk, i.e. the increase in value correction and booking costs as the operational result of banks is slightly improved before the value correction. Since the risk generator was largely Agrokor, and since the values mentioned are covered by a significant part of the existing risks, it is a one-time event that will not have consequences for future operations of the banking system. Trends in quality loans have continued, although significantly slowed down. The share of partially compensated and completely non-refundable loans during the first half of 2017 decreased from 13.8 to 13.2%. Quality improvement has been achieved in both the most significant sectors and non-financial enterprises and the population. This is an individual result of the sale of demand with problems in charge, although the population would have improved and the impact of the sale of the claim would have been excluded. During the first half of 2017 nearly 5 billion kunas of the nominal value of the B and C loan were sold, of which almost 70% of the amounts were related to one bank. The improvement in the adequateness of banks' capital has also continued. The total capital rate increased from 22.9% at the end of 2016 to 23.2 at the end of June. The amount of regulatory capital has not changed, so a slight reduction in risk exposure resulted in an increase in the rate. Finally, I want to look back on the crisis in the Agrokor concert, which marked largely last year its macroeconomic effects. First, I must stress that perhaps not everyone is aware of the economic earthquake for which, compared to the size of the economy, it is difficult to find a comparison in the world. Only the amount of losses reported after the special administration's arrival is about 7% of GDP. If we compare that to, say, Germany, it's the same as if a company in that country had hidden losses of 300 billion euros. That kind of thing rarely happens except for us. For example. The parmalate was only 1/7 of Agrokor compared to the Italian economy. I would therefore like to reiterate the need to introduce a criminal offence against financial stability. It is shown again and again what may be the consequences of the irresponsible conduct of individuals for general good, which should be properly sanctioned. However, thanks to the fact that a large part of Agrokor's funding came from abroad, our initial assessments assumed limited action on the rest of the economy. And above all, through the channels of reducing investment and reducing consumer confidence, which would result in lower consumption and increased risk of savings. According to our expectations, the data suggests that the crisis in the Agrokor concert did not have a significant impact on economic activity. Growth was widespread and all the components of domestic demand continued to grow. The CNB projections for this year also assume that the orderly restructuring of Agrokor concerts will continue, and there will be no significant shocks for the economy. It is important to note that the financial system is not significantly exposed to the risk of Agrokor, and that it can overcome any concert-related scenario, including those we do not expect, but we are ready for it, and that is a full write-off of all claims. Such a situation is due to the intensive regulatory activities of the CNB in order to maintain banks' exposure to the Agrokor concentration within the prudential frameworks. On the other hand, the resilience of the financial system does not change that there is still a lot of uncertainty and risks related to the restructuring process. Agrokor should soon reach a deal with creditors about the frozen debt, and the right to operational restructuring of Agrokor is just beginning and is expected to take some time. An irregular restructuring option would pose a significant risk to economic growth with all the consequences that can result. I conclude this exposure to claims that financial stability has been resuscitated, this time under the bankruptcy conditions of the largest private company with an extremely large debt in relation to GDP, and an examination of the resilience of the banking system carried out by the CNB shows that capitalisation is sufficient for the banking system to endure a strong shock, including a combination of strong slowdown in economic growth with an increase in the cost of financing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77208	Mr. Governor, thank you, you've exhausted your time. Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77209	Thank you very much. Mr Vujčić, in your half-hour presentation, you have touched a lot, and what is the strongest and most important for me, at this time to comment, to tell us your vision and thinking why the Republic of Croatia is lagging behind, which is why it slows down the economic growth that fell to 2% at the end of 2017 and when it compares to the EU countries, we are the last one, when compared to our neighbours who, on the contrary, have a tendency of economic growth that has accelerated, Slovenia has had 6% of economic growth, at the level of the year about 5%, I am interested in your opinion, which are the reasons, and whether by what I think is the reason, and what the European Commission warns, it is crucial not to implement these famous, as we always call them, structural reforms, i.e.e. the lack of the work of Plenkovic's Government in the last year and 2, 3 months. So it's not a harmless question, it's not a question that needs to be satisfied we grow 2%, so it doesn't matter, while others grow 3.4 or 5%, it's important to find the causes and it's important to hear your opinion, or the CNB's opinion on this issue, because you are one of the key actors that could help, and also to government some advice and certain measures to speed up economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77210	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77211	Thank you very much, Governor. So, I'm curious, so I'm curious, the names you receive pay among the highest in the Republic of Croatia. Your salary at the annual level is about 600,000 kuna net according to what was published in your property card, but on the other hand on that same property card you have no property, so you have no savings, no apartment, no car, no movement, no watch, no picture, nothing. How is it possible that we are all parliamentary representatives of you richer, and we have a salary of 3.4.5 times smaller? And on the other hand, how is it possible again that your deputy has 37 million kuna property? So a man who has a lower salary than you is rich as if he's worked 200 years in the CNB. So it's just not clear to me if you can explain these misunderstandings to me because I really don't understand how we all own something, we all live somewhere, we all have something to drive, we all have some kuna, you're the only one who has nothing, and all the other employees have the CNB again? Is this perhaps because money is placed in some accounts in Croatia that are not known to the public or in what way is it available or that I may be simply mistaken so I don't know, you might spend it all? Here if you can explain it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77212	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77213	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Governor Vujčić, the esteemed representatives of the CNB. You are the indirect culprits why the standard of Croatian citizens is lower than it should be. Why? Because you allowed the interest of Croatian banks which was illegal and is still illegal. The first thing you did was you kept information on the CNB web pages on which information was given to consumers about consumer protection until the end of 2014 that the change in the interest rate by administrative decision of the bank is a normal thing. It was only when the verdict was passed in the case of Franak when it was found that it was not a normal thing that it was illegal that you removed that notice from the wall of the CNB. So you are the indirect culprits why banks systematically agreed to change the interest rate by decision of the bank, which is unfairly, in no way determined by a court procedure, contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Consumer Protection Act. Later you did not take a proactive role and did not propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a methodology for finding margins in situations where margins were not agreed. So, after the amendments to the Consumer Credit Act in early 2014, banks again acted independently and defined the interest parameters without aligning with the debtors and without agreeing with the debtors. What I expect from you now is to support the idea of finally establishing the methodology for finding interest margins in loans where margins are not agreed. So will you support that idea? I'm not asking you to say we're going to support the way, but the idea of finally getting rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77214	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77215	Dear Governor of the National Bank. We heard information today overloading that data, we're not all economists, and what's the interest of a man on the street of an average man on the street? He's interested, for example. that borrowing cycle as sustainable as possible. We're in debt every year, we've got a hole in the budget of 16 billion kuna, how long can it be done if the pension fund isn't filled and everything comes from the same basket. It can't take long if most people don't work in the Croatian state, we have the youngest population of pensioners, that's what I said before. Secondly, what about the money that was made outside Croatia, do we have that data? You're responsible for this. We're talking about Agrokor, all the goods I said before, all the goods have customs certificates, and bananas are so many kilos are exported out, where is the money that made some contracts the gentleman with his other pals contracts? Where's the money, where's the bank accounts outside? That's what Mr. Bunjac mentioned about the origin of the property. I've been holding in my hand here since the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and that law would solve the origin of the property a lot. Here's one constitutional judge here under investigation, and you can't prove where he came from. Why hasn't that law been passed? That would solve a lot of things, you'd be coming to the state's cash register. People have some kind of feeling here that we got, and before socialism in these places, it was just socialism for the rich. Where did he end up with that money? Who are these people who are coming back now as a direct foreign investment? Did we trace that money that was taken outside of Croatia? We have this information that since 2008, somewhere in '14. $34 billion has been drained out of this country. What are we talking about here? Are we ready for these challenges on that market that comes here that might be inflation here, hyperinflation? What's going on, are we safe here or is it just a smoke screen?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77216	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77217	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Governor Vujcic. You spoke about economic recovery in 2016 as I can agree with you, but I wonder why this economy hasn't worked since after the war to this day? Why are so many failures made, why are so many done people 350 grand, why have you allowed banks to rob citizens and even take away all their property and even their last lip pensions? Why would you let that happen? The other thing is, banks rob businessmen, so I'm asking you when you go to the bank when you release a virman they legally take your money and I agree. You're going to take a two-ton bill from the bank, it's in one minute, one second, 20 seconds of print and takes 150 kuna, 140, 150 kuna. I ask you now who gives them the right if a worker in Croatia works for 30 kunas they take 150 kunas in an account just to show you that you are liquid or not? Why don't you ask these banks and of course the businessman comes into trouble and the businessman, the craftsman, it's a clean robbery. You are at the head of the National Bank who must take care of the citizens of the Croatian state not to say both money leaks and everything else that has happened in these 28 years. It's a question of questions. The banks are 2016. 6.4 billion said you got, now they're 1.2, they're always in the plus, and the citizens are always down. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with such business and simply allow banks to do whatever they want in Croatia. And it's Agrokor, why hasn't he controlled himself for the last 15 years? That's what I'm telling everyone, not just you, you allowed this country's legal robbery, you and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77218	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77219	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor the Governor of the Bank. With your associates after your comprehensive report, I am asked and I will ask you a simple, symptomatic question, what do you think of the hard exchange rate and how you feel about controlled inflation and what kind of influence would it have on the Croatian economy, especially on exports? Because many financial experts think that the hard exchange rate of kuna is not stimulating, especially for export. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77220	Thank you. The next is a replica of Tomislav Zhagar's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77221	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Here's colleague Kirin was on the trail of what I was going to ask and ask you to comment. In particular, we see from the report, the 2016 report was particularly interesting in the first 6 months of 2017, the annual growth of real GDP was the most contributed by the growth of goods and services exports, which continued positive developments from 2016 in the second quarter of the annual rate of growth of exports and services significantly reduced and GDP growth contributed significantly to demand, this means the consumption of citizens. What I am now interested in, and my colleague Kirin pointed out, all exporters are complaining about the overrated exchange rate and that it is in fact a very difficult circumstance for them to export. The other thing, if we look at a little interest structure, actually the credit structure that's listed on page 45, then we see an interesting fact that, for example, for accommodation and preparation of food that is probably part of tourism activities, when we talk about lending 10 billion, and only for overruns by transaction accounts have the banks reached or issued 7 billion-dollar loans. Overall, according to the population, 112 billion kuna, and look to non-financial corporations, according to the total production of 84 billion credit. We have a paradox that your report says there's money, but that money doesn't go towards entrepreneurship, something's going on, something's wrong in the state, I'm not saying that you're responsible, but how do you comment and why don't you criticise the government? A colleague mentioned reforms, which is why interest rates are so high in the Republic of Croatia, 'is that exclusively because reforms are not being implemented? I know the report says that interest rates are at record low, but obviously something is wrong if entrepreneurship is not credited enough or banks don't come out enough entrepreneurship to achieve better business results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77222	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77223	Thank you very much. Mr. Governor, good job on the report. But frankly, I don't see the meaning of these three reports that we're discussing today. Those indicators that show up here, they're all old data. It would be logical for us to discuss today's report for the second half of 2017. Why? So when it comes to the CNB Act, if this provision were to be made inside that the CNB half-yearly prides the report, it was intended that, given its expertise, according to the data that the CNB has, simply in a very short time after the end of a period, the Governor of the CNB reported certain movements in Croatia and perhaps one proposal and suggestion. I think these reports should be a little bit, to put it that way, more folkly. Not because of the fact that they are not good, but simply that what you are saying and that it is easier to discuss with parliamentary representatives to touch some of the topics that are far more important to Croatian citizens, because the professional public on your websites and publications gets everything that needs to be obtained. That's one suggestion. The second proposal is that I think we should go on an urgent basis to amend the HNB Act and because of this report, and also because of some provisions inside, because Croatia has already, for almost five years now, been a member of the EU and the logical thing that the way and business of the CNB has changed. And third thing, we've lost all our energy about changing our Rules of Procedure. I would have been happy today if we as clubs could have agreed, that, not today, but a few days ago, and that we had sent a request to the governor today to submit a report to us at the end of 2017, and this is how it all works out, then I think it would be a lot easier for us all to talk about something like this, not what's last year, but over the clanial snow, and we're not going to get basic information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77224	Thank you, thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to be the House of Representatives of the Living Wall in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77225	All due respect, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, honored to the governor with his associates. The CNB's harmful policy is one of the main reasons for the country's economic breakdown. Indeed, it is a long list of harmful decisions made by the CNB, starting with the legendary sales of gold reserves in 2001 sold at $270 per ounce, and days are worth, say, $1330, etc. We are today discussing reports for 2016 and the first half of 2017, in which we see that in essence, CNB policy is not changing in anything. They continue to implement the same policy, bring statistics and, interestingly, even record one part of the problem, but at the same time they do nothing to solve these problems, and even less do those who are allegedly addressed because we see that there are maybe 10% of the MPs here. Here, let's say an interesting question. Recently on the Committee on Finance, when discussing the introduction of the euro, Governor Vujcic claimed that the Croatian economy has a debt of 700 billion kuna. 700 billion kuna! What I don't know is, 511 billion in foreign currency, and the rest are kunas. And now I'd like the governor of the CNB to tell us first, where did that debt come from? Look out, it's a debt without citizens' debts, etc. and, on the other hand, who will repay this debt and whether the Republic of Croatia is on the threshold of the Greek script, so the total destruction of the economy and this one, surrenders to foreign interests. It's interesting to listen, for example. As a post-festum governor, it is clear to the governor what happened, for example. with Agrokora, so he says management should be put in prison, a criminal act of fiscal responsibility should be imposed, etc., i.e. irresponsibility. And what was that same governor doing, say, over the past decade while that whole process culminated? What did he do? Did you do anything, I don't know, against... Have you done anything against corruption, the origins of property, the withdrawal of money, money laundering, whether Mr. Vukic, the money of Agrokor was washed in neighbouring countries and even through business banks? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are they or aren't they? Now you later, when Mr. Todorovic is in London, he says grab Todorovic. After everything's already been destroyed. So, what's the point of being a CNB anyway, what's the point of being governor of that facility? So, the point is obviously to receive a salary of 50 thousand kunas and a colloquial term bark per month. There. So that's the job of the CNB's current administration. The CNB, for example, is lementing on structural reforms. He says there's a tax charge to be made. That it is necessary to address the problems of the judiciary, that the problems of education, health, pension system, state property, EU funds should be addressed. I repeat the same question, what have you done to get rid of it? How did the CNB, for example, make any suggestions about the pension system? What is your opinion of the second pension stake, can we find out? Is this second pension column useful or useless? Does he increase public debt or reduce debt? You say it's growing. What's growing? Public debt. In November 2017, did the public debt first increase more than 300 billion kuna, and is the pension column II responsible? There's a need for investment. What are those investments you're proposing? Can you explain the reality? These investments are nothing more than the sale of Croatian assets. It's a sale below the price. Here's another question for you. Can Croatia's GDP grow and the state develop if we don't have our own companies? Is that possible? I don't think it's possible. Therefore, these investments that you advocate only deepen the crisis and increase unemployment or the imperceptibility of the Republic of Croatia. You have as many examples as you want. Starting with INA, starting with HT, all the way to the vulture funds in Agrokor. All the money allegedly invested in the Republic of Croatia has contributed nothing more than to the collapse of the entire Croatian economy. Our position, the position of the Living Wall, is that the Republic of Croatia should invest itself, that we must invest our own capital, that we must invest in our country, our work, our infrastructure, and what you are proposing, the idea of selling out everything we have, that banks and foreign corporations take not only our companies but our homes, our water, our country. Here, we have to sell agricultural land for two years, etc. And that we Croats become apatridos, practically people without a country. That's your plan. Your erroneous monetary policy has caused, among other things, a terrible indifference. Citizens and companies are chronically free of any money that has been turned mainly into debt. How do you comment on the fact that in the last 15 years, the Republic of Croatia has achieved a negative external trade balance of 4 state budgets? Four national budgets! Is 2016 and 2017 reduced or increased? Imports increased. And what does that show? It shows that in fact, there is no real growth but we still have adverse trends. If there had been any growth, as you say, it would have been increased exports, not imports. And we have an increase in imports. The only thing that matters to you is to keep the course of the Croatian Kuna, as you say, stable. We could say, "frozen," and the price we have to pay for it is just huge. Because you're holding a stable exchange reserve mechanism, and it's amazing that we're at the height of the foreign reserve, so a country that's in total, in economic downturn, one of the leading countries at the height of the foreign reserve, which at the moment is 16 billion kuna. And now look at the situation, one example possible. Croatia owes 5 billion kuna highways, and every year we have to pay 160m euros in interest without paying off the principal at all, while Governor Vujcic keeps 16 billion euros in HNB that are our own purpose. So what is the purpose of this money if the Croatian state can't handle it? I have already mentioned it and the governor knows very well that everywhere in the world the National Bank has very low escontaneous rates just to help the economy, to help its economies and Croatia keeps an escontaneous rate at the level of 3 to 7%, which is essentially extremely harmful. The question is, who does the Croatian National Bank work for then? Does he work for Croatia, no? Does he work for the people? No, I don't. She works for large-scale capital and that's her primary role. So you change the name of the bank, the large capital bank. Add another one here and it will be a new name for your bank, because it is essentially the only one in that function and it is. In the current model, Croatia cannot become a country of work based on production. The basic economic recovery is not possible under the conditions of the existing capital price and therefore requires very large steps in this direction. Here's another example. Since 1994, when this stable exchange rate of damage was introduced. The Croatian economy is growing at 0.8% annually, and the financial sector, banks have an annual growth of 6%, 6% imagine. In times of most severe crisis when people were blocked, when millions and millions of executions were received by citizens, when companies went bankrupt, when hundreds of thousands of young emigrated banks made profits and passed completely uncircumcised in the whole event without showing the least solidarity with the society in which these same profits were made. It's something just amazing, it's something criminal. See what kind of palaces were built around Croatia at the time of this crisis, what bonuses were paid by these administrations, and you are unable to introduce to banks even the general tax as it exists in the EU, let alone a special one. When we suggested only 0.6% from the Living Wall, be careful how small an expression is 0.6%. The banks would not even feel the money being given for Croatian children, for demographic measures. What did you say then? Then you and your parliamentary majority made fun of us. Because why? Because the bonuses are important to you, I don't know about administrations in Germany, the US or Istanbul, because we have this Kent bank that's already Turkish, not Croatian children, that's more important to you. And that's why you rejected our law with contempt, that's very sad. With your course and your policy, you have destroyed the entire processing industry, and the Croatian economy has become import-dependent. As far as the course is concerned, I'd rather not even mention the case of the Swiss franc, he's already taken epic proportions, and everybody knows it. Croatia has lost any competitiveness and potential for export development policy thanks to your monetary policy. Only by laxating the course, bringing the kuna into a real course and protecting our economy's domestic production has the possibility of recovery and development. However, even if you wanted to, you can't be, there may even be some sympathy with you. You can't change it, because we have the CNB law we have. See article 74. The law on the Croatian National Bank. He says the exchange rate of domestic currency, that the exchange rate of domestic currency must respect the common interest of EU member states, means not Croatian interest, not national interest, but common so-called. interest. In other words, the CNB is under the law to manage the interests of the European Union in implementing the exchange rate policy measures, which means in reality that Croatian imports will be cheaped and exports collected. And we can see in continuity that it's been happening for the past 24 years. Even now that the governor mentions some growth, it is clear that this growth is fictitious, that it was created thanks to the decline in oil prices, a suitable environment, not thanks to reforms and not thanks to some successes of the government. Did the growth in debt-blocked growth increase? Is the amount blocked due increased or decreased? Of course, he's grown. Can you comment on the fact in the light of your alleged growth, that in 2017 at least a baby has been born in the last 100 years. Is that growth? It's not growth. Is it growth that you've increased the current value of pensions by 59 lips? What, therefore, do citizens live on, from that growth? At the same time, how many prices did the services grow? So that growth you're talking about isn't even enough to cover the cost of living. How can we talk about growth if you have in the last quarter of 2017 a growth of 2.2% while paying interest 3% at the same time so we don't even have a growth that could cover the interest of the debt we have, let alone to pay off the principal. Then what do we have to talk about next? Since I am running out of time, I would like to say that the current monetary policy is extremely pro-resion and that the main obstacle to the recovery and development of the Croatian economy is. The most destructive effects of monetary policy The Living Wall sees in the absence of the primary emissions of CNB money and in the policy of forming and using foreign reserves. The central bank must substantially change both the country's interest and exchange rate policy in order to improve domestic liquidity and the competitiveness of production. In any event, a share of foreign exchange reserves should be invested in the real sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77226	Thank you very much. We have some replicas, the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77227	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I have been talking to producers and export-oriented about the fact that they absolutely do not correspond to CNB's monetary policy. They believe that the CNB should have led one proactive policy towards the exchange rate of kuna compared to the euro in such a way that it should have allowed a slight fluctuation in the exchange rate of kuna compared to the exchange rate of the euro in such a way that the exchange rate declines gradually, relative to the euro rate, 1 to 1.5% per year. Accordingly, wages would grow and, accordingly, the economy would grow, exports would thus be encouraged, and we would all be in a much better situation together than we are now. Unfortunately, it's been missed and it's now a story that's impossible to put the wheel back, so here we are. On the other hand, this conservative HNB policy as it implements, we can't say it's a failure. They successfully implement the policy they have decided to implement. So they keep the monetary system stable the way they decided to keep it stable. However, it was obviously not good for the economy. The second thing, which is far more devastating for Croatian citizens, is that the CNB is the one who is indirectly guilty of interesting Croatian citizens, so we have one interesting fact today. Banks in Germany and in other EU countries earn far less on consumer-based interest than in Croatia. In Croatia, banks earn 100-200% more on housing interest rates and 200-300% on interest on other non-intentional loans. It's CNB policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77228	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77229	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Alexic, of course the policy of targeted inflation would be the most suitable for one economy, let's say in the transition, which is Croatian. Such a policy is run by the Czech People's Bank, I don't know if you know it, but the Czech Republic is one of the most developed economies of the EU with very little unemployment, with twice as much exports as imports and which have managed to reach us and even overcome us, although perhaps 10, 15 years ago, compared to Croatia, it was a lagging country. If the currency clause had been abolished, there would never have been this problem with the Swiss franc that you know so much about, there would never have been this number of blocked, this number of completed, and that's something that Governor Vukic knows, but he doesn't care. Because he is interested in the interests of those people he visits in Kitzbühel and at all those conferences he attends every year, and according to an official report by the CNB 200 days a year he stays outside Croatia and it is absolutely not good. Therefore, the CNB would indeed have to put the kuna into operation in a way that this kuna becomes an active policy tool, that citizens gradually reduce their credit obligations, that they also gradually reduce interest on loans, but that it is very important that banks transfer most of the money towards the economy, and that this monetary policy of the bank transfers most of the money to the state and the population, which is also one of the reasons why our economic model does not actually work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77230	The following replicas, honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77231	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bunjac. You've put out some serious criticism about the work of the CNB so far, and here you've literally said it's not a national bank, but it's protecting some others, suing the interests of a large one, as you said capital. Is it possible that you know which people make the leadership of the CNB and which people advise them? If you may not be able to quickly go to Google, I will help you answer that the CNB first makes 8 people management, and you are the same 8 people sitting in the Council that advise themselves. So the same people on the Council advise themselves as leadership. What do you think as a doctor of science, is it common, is it normal, is it transparent and what should be done to change that? On the other hand, that's the first question. Secondly, do you know that the CNB has about 100 functions, leading posts from bosses, deputies, directors, directors, directors, etc. about a hundred, do you know that there has never been an internal call, let alone a public tender, but they are all appointed by one man. Now tell me if Croatia is heading towards the EU, the European Central Bank, and we are seeking transparency in which system would you place this institution on these two elements that I mentioned to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77232	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77233	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lovrinović. Well you are absolutely right and this is not the first time in the Parliament that the work of Croatia is called a bank completely non-transparent and that it is not actually controlled by the state. If that were the case, the Croatian state would have the right to control the CNB, but we know that it does not have the right, that the only revision of the CNB can be done by foreign institutions, that this CNB is supposed to represent some independent authority in the Republic of Croatia that no one can even question and check, and at least speak what it will do and that is essentially very regrettable. Why don't we use those foreign exchange reserves that we have to cover all the debt we have to start the economy? So that's not allowed, so who forbids the people to have their own money, who has that license? On the other hand, the CNB creates a terrible indifference. Look, ask people, ask companies how much money they've got. There's practically no money available today. Out of the 100 kunas in Croatia that are reportedly in circulation of seven kunas, in almost nine hundred kunas are debt, debt or debt per credit or debt per card or minus on current or some other indirect duties. And I'm asking you, can you pay 93 with seven kunas? Well, a little kid knows that's not possible, a kid in grade three. To pay 93 kuna, you must have at least 93 or 94 more, but you can't pay 93 at 7 and that's exactly the situation in Croatia. That's what we in the Living Wall say all the time that debts are actually invaluable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77234	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to another club of representatives, and that's the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, the governor and his associates. Here we have today a united half-yearly information on the financial situation and the degree of achievement of stability and the price of implementation of monetary policy throughout 2016 and for the first half of 2017. There have already been indications in certain replicas that this half-yearly information is to be discussed with a certain time shift and that it lacks some actuality, and since certain data for 2017 have been published, I will try to complete these reports with this information to see certain economic developments. As we all saw a few weeks ago, the last quarter of the state of economic activity has been announced and points to a slowdown in GDP growth in the last quarter of 2017, which marks not only the slowdown of the economy as such but what matches in the European Commission's reports that it is mainly doing this economic growth that was in 2015 and 2016, that its growth is fragile and that the potential of this growth is very low and that unless certain structural reforms are carried out that its achievements will be short-term. That was actually too much of an expectation. I used to say the same thing here when it came to the so-called. the tax reform, or better tell a certain reduction in certain tax rates, which we see after one year of these certain changes, that there are too many expectations of certain tax reforms that have expired. Why does it matter? So to say, because we don't have too much expectations that only by the tax system to reduce certain taxes now and that we will solve certain structural problems. Our structural problems aside from what we say here we have too many taxes are primarily in those deficit sectors such as the pension system, such as the health system, and when we know that we lack 19 billion kunas in the pension system and that we know that we are missing some 3.4 billion kunas in the health system, unfortunately this tax system that generates a certain very high level of tax burden has been formed. So it is too much public expectations that the tax system will push the economy that has given its effects, but also in the European Commission's report, we see that these effects were short-term, that they were one year old. So GDP growth at the end of 2017 slowed to 2%, so the entire economy in 2017 achieved an economic growth of 2.8% that we see when we look at 2016 that it was less than 3.2%. So we just see how they grow, we're not going to compare with developed Western countries, they're way ahead of us, but let's go with those countries that joined the EU in 2004 and when we issue bonds and when they compare us with where to invest, you know. We do not compare Croatia with Germany, Italy where to invest, but compare us with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania means investors who come to invest then look at certain countries and try to compare us with what our economic activities are and where they invest. We know for ourselves that part of the investment was very strong. And look, Croatia is growing 2%, Slovenia is growing in the same period 6.2%, Romania is growing 7%, the Czech Republic is growing 5.2%, Estonia 5.3%, Hungary 4.9, Latvia, 4.7, Poland 4.3, Lithuania 3.8, Slovakia 3.5. So this just shows that the structure of growth, the structure of the economy between Croatia and these countries that are actually very different and because of the fact that expectations are ours, that this economic growth, I say, will once be based on certain tax changes, on certain actions, when actually the issue of Swiss is solved, so people have some more money left, that they are simply short of breath. And that one thing we need to know, long-term growth and that problem, not only do we have in the economy, but it slows down the main generator of growth, which is the growth of real retail trade, which has slowed down to 3.4% and we know it was 5.5%. We know that the structure of our GDP is 60% consumption, so 60% of the consumption of Croatian citizens, and we know on the other hand that we have 330,000 blocked Croatian citizens. So look, what potential to solve the problem of blocked citizens. We have seen that recently the government, or today, has come up with a proposal to solve the problem of blocked citizens, which we also tried in 2015 was a certain short effect, now the government is also trying to solve it, however, where the problem is. The problem is, and this is actually what the governor himself pointed to, that the business banks, in the last 3 years, have been normally solving, cleaning their balance sheets, so that they could achieve new credit activities, so that they could achieve new economic growth potentials, sold these claims. So the basic banks have sold over 2 billion euros in business claims in the last 3 years, over 17 billion kunas, so on. on that market. And now the question is, have we solved the problems? We didn't. So we just cleaned up the banks in their balance sheets that now look better, the net value of the claim, that is, those claims that they've adjusted and corrected, it's more realistic now, much more real than it ever was, when they were inside those claims. OK, one part of these claims, as the governor said, are also based on the corporate sector, which also has a very high level of private debt and are moving towards the restructuring process. But the problem is who will the government negotiate with now? Whom will the government negotiate with when it takes steps to help blocked citizens, and we remember last year, Minister Maric, when I gave him public support, when he said that tax discharge, that is, giving certain tax reliefs, to citizens who are blocked, that banks, if they go, would want to write off those debts, what? First, he'll get a tax relief, and on the other hand, the bank will be obliged to write it off to the citizens themselves. Correct me if it wasn't said like that, here last year. And what happened? We see that the banks have sold these claims, and we don't see that the share of the blocked citizens decreases. Moreover, 42 billion kunas continue to grow, and that's just your principal. So when you take that 42 billion, you have another 20, 25 billion kuna interest somewhere else, we get close to 70 billion kunas of blocked funds in certain parts of the citizens. And we're talking on the other hand, that it makes 60% of our citizens make us, that is, that consumption makes us 60% of our GDP. Then we show how vulnerable we are, how vulnerable we are actually in the whole... when we talk about economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We see that it's been happening to us lately and the drop in industrial production for three months in a row. That is unfortunately, this part of the delay reaction participation in Agrokor. And where do we happen to drop industrial production? It happens to us in industrial production in the food industry, and we know that Agrokor is the company that was in Agrokor, that one of the largest parts were carried by that part of the food industry. We're having a drop in energy production. And we see that with the recent, that INA closes Sisak, as much as it has produced or not produced, but the refinery in Sisak and in the processing industry and we see problems in Uljanik, i.e. in shipbuilding. So the last part of our industry, as an industrialized country, we can fool ourselves, but there's no country, if we're going to base our entire economy on services. And what does the CNB report show that banks have been lending to lately? If you read the report, you see that they credit exclusively to the tourism sector, which closes our balance of payments. And what's going on? Only now is the tourism sector due to a certain amount of tourists, i.e. 17 million arrivals of tourists, i.e. about 80 million overnight stays, is the only one now coming to certain levels of profitability and closing our balance of payments. The whole industry, the shipbuilding industry, the petrochemical industry, Đuro Đaković, all those who are the cornerstone of industrial production, and precisely, these countries that I was talking about, about the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, are building their economic growth on the industry of gentlemen, not on tourism, not on services, not on industry basis, why they have such strong economic growth. Because they have a strong economic base. And when a certain disturbance occurs in the economy, when such disturbances occur in the economy, such industrial production is much more resistant than tourism. You yourself know that tourism is the biggest charger of the Croatian state budget. And when you see actually that it can happen, and now we're growing revenue, why are we now in plus? Well, our budgets are increasing two to three times faster than the economy is growing. And what happens on the other hand, when the economy is down, they fall two to three times faster than they did the economy, than they did the economy. And that's simply the legality that those who run the Ministry of Finance know. He knows best fellow Shuker when he was in 2008 when the economy didn't sink so much, as the revenues submerged, from 10-15% of the tax revenues into the budget. What should certainly be said, to a certain structure of the Croatian economy, that still, because of this enthusiasm, it should be a little calmed down, should be helped with these measures, such as the government to help some of the citizens, the Croatian economy, has not yet been restructured in such a way that it can be based, that we can achieve the rates of economic growth that are not, that we are small certain shocks of time or any kind of shocks that, God forbid, happen to us in tourism. We invest too much in only one sector. We invest too much in one sector, and we know what happened to us when the banks overfunded only one sector. You see the construction sector in the report, half-yearly information. What is the rate of outstanding claims in the construction sector? 64%. This is likely when certain road companies are taken is a question of whether they are inside or not, which are guaranteed by the state, the question of what is the share. What's going on? It's a complete blockade. 6-7 years we had simply that the whole of our construction sector, and we know that it was the bearer of the economy from 2002, 2003 to 2008 in which we found ourselves in a strong recession. Also, I say once again, here should be noted about this reselling of these debts, these 17 billion, I hope that the government will certainly consider it, so that it will not be citizens' expectations too great again. It is not a problem in this part of what will come and plant the Ministry of Finance and say in certain tax charges for craftsmen or OPGs that are due to citizens. What does a citizen owe to the IRS? As citizens, what can you be obliged to do? You can't owe anything except for those who are craftsmen and O.P.G.s who are being led as natural persons. They can be helped by the state and should be helped to restructure them as craftsmen and OPGs, and that is no problem at all. And the state can resolve certain restructurings of these directorial debts, etc. However, what about 17 billion kunas that have been resold, which are now on the market, which can no longer control the CNB, which can no longer control the HANFA as some kind of regulator that does not regulate that particular market and actually the debt market in Croatia is booming. The market of 20 billion kuna flowers. What law will we now start to act when companies that bought it at a discount value of 10-20% for the net of certain values. How we're going to solve cancer, the biggest problems, and so I say, I welcome what you bring, but I think you should be kept in mind and what these reports say. I'd like to be wrong about that part, if this part of the resales had gone to the companies most if they hadn't gone towards the citizens. However, we must view this fully and in what way we are actually the main generator of GDP, and these are citizens, how we encourage them to be in this section under the regulatory, i.e. to be the measures that we are all going to support together. Once again, I'm worried about the state of industrial production, so much bargaining, what it's going to look like. These are part of a restructuring where privates negotiate how much they will share. We certainly want to know what the restructure of the Consum is like. Who's gonna own that? Who's gonna own it after the deal? How the food industry, and look, the petrochemical industry, the refinery industry in Sisak, the oil industry, all kinds of industries are going to be very low. We've been covering with tourism the whole time. The last base of the healthy Croatian industry is still the food industry. What's she gonna look like? Not only will the settlement look like, what will the policies of these Croatian stores look like when the term of office of this government is over? I think you should focus on that and that's a very important thing, not just how much write-offs are going to be, It's just to see what it looks like. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So, thank you, I think it's spreading a lot of a certain problem, but here I tried. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77236	Thank you very much. Now we have a pretty long line of replicas, so let's start from the beginning. The first one will be spoken by the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lalovac, you were Minister of Finance and by nature things should work together to harmonise fiscal and monetary policy. I remember your infrequent statements of disappointment in the case of Franak, non-cooperation, etc., not to repeat. But you complain here, you warn, you are concerned about the position of industry, the disappearance of industry, shipbuilding, processing, etc., and when we pull the parallel, one of the extremely important variables affecting it is the interest rate. You know as well as I, that in neighbouring Slovenia you can get a loan at 0.2-0.3% interest rate, in the Republic of Croatia if you get 2-3%, it gets the best, and it's not 10 or 100% more, but it's 1,000% more, right. Ten times as many. So I'm asking you now, evaluate this monetary policy that's destroying its economy. And secondly, when we look at what's going on around Agrokor, I'm looking for a letter that I'm going to explain later, that I'm being given information on how many banks are exposed. It's stuck, it's blurry, it's a secret, it's a secret, it's a secret, it's a secret, it's a secret, it's a secret, it's a secret, it's a secret, it's a Today, I, colleague Lalovac, will hand over a letter to the president of the Parliament, or to the presidents of the Committee on Finance and National Security, meaning to hold a joint session of these two committees, to discuss the role of both the HANFA and the CNB and the banks in the Agrokor case and to ask if you will support this party's initiative by changing Croatia to hold a closed session for the public in order to at least as parliamentary representatives find out who is responsible for this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77238	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, yes, you mentioned one of the most important factors in financing actually the economy and the cost of capital that Croatian entrepreneurs actually carry on them. It seems to me that this report said that these interest rates are shrinking, that somewhere around 4% now, at least that way according to the report, the governor can correct me. But what matters is that it seems to me that this was the same debate and that's what the governor was talking about here. Banks in CNB accounts have nine and a half billion kuna surplus funds. And imagine now how the entrepreneurs listen to us. So banks have nine and a half billion kunas of free funds, the CNB runs an extensive monetary policy. And then you see, on the other hand, the answers of business banks to these same entrepreneurs, we say, so we'd place it, but there's not a lot of capable entrepreneurs, they don't have projects, your evaluations are bad. And we'd rather keep that money at the CNB by zero percent, or even pay on them a certain penalty, and that's where it actually stops. I think that apart from this way of solving the problem of the citizens who have been blocked, I am not saying that it is directly within the Croatian National Bank's authority, but it must be found. I know it was later and when we were, so we pushed through HBOR a certain portion of the loan to get that nine and a half billion kuna back into the economy. Because look what the potential of Croatia is. Maybe then we'd be talking about these rates like the Czech Republic, Slovakia and five, six, seven percent. But that money that's nine and a half billion that stands and is actually created to reach the economy is simply not blocked just now. He's unfortunately blocked, he's been blocked for many years. And then you actually have one frustration that you have so much capital, and that still the price of capital is much higher than it is in Slovenia. Simply such conditions, so they cannot give Croatian entrepreneurs support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77240	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77241	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Lalovac, I listened to your debate and I read some of these reports and reports say that the Croatian National Bank is conducting, i.e. He's implementing an expansional monetary policy. However, we should ask the question of what are the effects of expansional monetary policy. The effects of expansion monetary policy are high money supply, lower interest rates and the CNB cannot implement a restrictive monetary policy because we see that the Croatian National Bank implements a restrictive monetary policy. What do we see it for? We see at high indifference, we see by insolvency, we see at high interest rates. According to all the effects, we see that this is not an expansional monetary policy, but a restrictive monetary policy. In your presentation, you touched the economic development of gross domestic product, etc. However, what problem arises. The problem arises because the current role in the role of the Croatian National Bank, which is still in line with the 1992 Mastric Agreement, is only a price stability. It's this German-conservative way of running a central bank. It also means in this central bank management where you exclusively aim at price stability every other focus on economic development, to encourage economic development is considered unfavourable in this system and I would actually call monetary policymaking by the National Bank the current currency committee as Bosnia and Herzegovina has.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77242	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In order not to turn out to be some kind of defender of the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian National Bank is acting as it says in the Law on the Croatian National Bank and how it is defined there. This is the High House voted, and if we agree here to set other goals in front of the CNB whether it is full employment, that it is encouraging much more investment then we will be able to actually set some new measures before the CNB and measure them in their successes. I couldn't agree more with you. Just focusing on defining certain price stability when you have people evicting, when you have very fragile economic growth again, when you have so many blocked citizens, when you still don't have a restructured economy. The question is only the functioning of one goal. But what you actually mentioned about their expansion policy. Now the question arises whether in these ways of lagging certain controls, so banks when they give certain money they have their own procedures. How many guesses they've made with certain procedures for giving money is very interesting. You know they came when Agrokor was analyzed, then they just said so we didn't know at all, we could find that there, there's some billion euros from the Russians or when they analyzed it. And when you get here, an ordinary citizen comes to get a certain piece of money and then believe me, you know, by the tenth generation where you are, what you've been doing, when you're going to end up, etc. And when it was analyzed, it means when certain money was given then they said, yes, it's no problem at all for billions. And then they said, well, it wasn't financial, it was supposed to be, it wasn't all involved. But that's why we need to make it very clear here. Is the CNB with this nine and a half billion kuna that actually goes along with the banks, whether it will continue to work through HBOR. If not through HBOR, will it continue to do so through some other instruments. However, there we certainly expect their support to tell both the government and us in the Parliament which are the instruments to get these money to the entrepreneurs. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77244	Thank you. Here, before we go to the next replica, let's welcome the students of the School of Economics from Pula up at the gallery. They've come to an appropriate point. [[Applause.]] The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77245	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, you see this conservative policy of the Croatian National Bank, if everyone were as conservative as they are today, citizens would suffer debt slavery especially those citizens who have raised loans in the Swiss franc currency clause. You weren't conservative, you were brave and you decided to cut that thing off with the French. And thanks to that, the banks had a positive zero in 2016, let's say, there were some losses. The following year, however, they had a huge profit of more than six billion kunas. I believe they took advantage of tax reliefs, and I still don't know, thanks to you, we had a win-win situation where the banks got rid of the bad credit, the big part of the bad credit, the big part of the bad credit, the citizens got relieved, they weren't in debt slavery, and the state solved the problem that bothered her because the citizens were in trouble. And no one got hurt for it, though, they're all winners. The next thing I would like to point out are blocked citizens, the CNB could take a proactive policy against these blocked citizens and could call a series of meetings of blocked citizens, creditors, authorities and try to find a specific solution common to the same table that would be acceptable to all. But it didn't happen. Minister Maric, for example, at a meeting with the President of the Republic, actually on that round table that he was at the President of the Republic of Croatia has promised to call one such round table all together, but it never happened, it could have been done by the CNB. It would be her role, one proactive role where she would act creatively and not just conservatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77246	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow citizens, in those 320, 330 000 Croatian citizens who I have repeatedly said are not just numbers that are people who have their problems because once you get into a certain debt, when you have a 6.7-year recession, out of it very much. You're very hard to get out, and there's a lot of stuff there. So you have people who simply can't pay their directors, but there are individuals who gave their personal bonds or debts, when they were directors or owners of certain companies, so they went into a variety of certain projects, investment projects, and then the entire projects were not closed, and then they were actually the whole part of it wasn't just the debt of that company anymore, but they transferred to debt like that individual citizen. So you have the first ten or 15 of those citizens to owe up to a few billion, which is impossible. Now the question of valorisation of the risk can again be asked how banks could approve regardless of when we talk about certain individual projects, how it is possible that you can ask a company that may not even have employees, etc. The project team was set up, invested, and then later came to 150 to 200 million you have an individual citizen, and on the other hand you have citizens who don't have 2, 3000 kuna and then some work is blocked. So there's actually a whole mix there, and you actually have to do a detailed analysis, then go through the individual measures. I think that if we go as superficially as the government now says up to 20,000 people, we won't be given one full effect, and we've certainly been reducing these very tight interest rates, but we see that this part hasn't moved again and that it's actually a cancer of the early Croatian society, and here I'm saying, if the CNB can help, it would be good, but I think there's more to do with certain measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77248	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77249	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, fellow Lalovac, you mentioned tourism, yes, tourism makes 20% of GDP, and surely we've come to that extreme limit when we can't really get caught up in what these old people would say that it can be our generator for further growth. However, what colleagues forget that we have tourism, we do so much traffic, we have so much income achieved, but through tourism we sell whose goods, we sell through tourism, as a rule, agricultural goods that are not ours, which is imported. So we must not forget the fact that we must create our own prerequisites to produce our own goods, our products that we will then indirectly place through tourism. That would then be the effect of tourism that would have much more effect on our economy than it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77250	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77251	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I agree with you especially in HBOR and we know that unfortunately HBOR is the biggest piece of work that is focused, it focuses on tourist facilities. I think it's a good thing that they offer better terms than they offer business banks because they offer a longer period of 15, 20 than 17 years and offer a certain period of start-up, reduce a certain interest rate, and I think they are in that part and this threshold of rentability of Croatian tourism companies that are now floating there with a higher number of overnight stays in the Republic and better paying powers. But what I'm afraid of, and that's said, see in this report, I'm afraid that when everyone in Croatia sees, we go to tourism, we all just go to tourism. When we did such a building, however, you didn't have a company in Croatia that did business, we know very well through pre-profit deals that were in there, they were engaged in basic activities, but they invested in real estate, they invested apartments, they invested in a number of other businesses. And then what happened? Why did it happen? Because they had more offerings than they had on their basic activity. And I'm afraid in this part of focus only on one activity, just one activity that it's not good, I think the HBOR has found its role there, but this diversification of the processing industry that we've talked about here, and more of these countries where I compared where they have more growth rates because they have healthier industrial production and what you've actually said, only through industrial production, was it the food industry or some other, not only that we have to find on the Croatian market product, but even on the outside. But unfortunately what you said, we can't come and sell when 18 million tourists arrive, we can't even sell our agricultural production there and that's a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77252	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77253	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, I agree with you that we cannot generate growth and development in Croatia only in one sector and in services that we must raise domestic production. You mentioned nicely that we recorded slow growth or decline in the retail trade on a small and interesting note that the governor said that Agrokor and the problems in this concert did not affect prices and overall economic relations in the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we see that we have a decline in the retail trade, especially food products. And it is devastating that it is also given that we have imported around 2.9 billion euros in food products and that the deficit in the sector is between imports and exports of a billion euros at our expense. And Agrokor must have influenced that because he was both a supplier and a buyer of goods, which he did not pay many in time and that many of them ended up in blockades and executions. And what is still devastating is that monetary policy and that we never got an answer to what was done to protect those sent with Agrokora, that we only reacted when international institutions stated that financial reports were fixed and that the bonds were issued without coverage in goods, services or money, and that until today no one answered the question as to how this could have happened or who was responding. And that just had a reflection on agricultural production. And I agree with you that unless we protect Petrokemija Kutin, Djuru Djakovic and our domestic companies, if we don't raise production on our OPGs and the question is what will happen after the deal with companies from Agrokor, Belje, Vupik, PIK Vinkovci where these people will work and what they will do. There must have been stability at stake, and monetary policy was bad for the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77254	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague Vlaovic, what I have said honestly, I am more concerned about what will happen after the settlement. The settlement is a technical document where certain owners who are either their claims or who will convert it into capital or who in this year have had time in their 2017 reports are likely to make certain write-offs, meaning adjustments. So they had to, if Agrokor had to write off all these inter-companion claims, they would probably, given how much the stake and the settlements would certainly affect all that food industry. And why did I say that? It's not just because it's going to be and where the consum is going to be in five years. You must understand that unfortunately for the next five years, what investments will be made by Podravka, Krasa, Vindija, we are talking about where the investment of these companies will be, means what will happen. Unfortunately, because their sales channel will narrow down, and it narrowed down because 10 to 15% will enter other trade chains. Unfortunately, they didn't have time... a year of time to switch to other trading chains. What about their installed production facilities? And the problem is whether you're going to have to go to so-called. ...the question of their investment potential. If they had their investment potential, not only on Konzum, they had on export to BiH, they had on export to Serbia, they had on export to Slovenia. We have to understand, we see what is happening here, how Croatian products will now be able to sell in BiH, you see how quickly the Slovenians jumped, as the Serbs jumped, all on the side knew that Agrokor had entered the part with certain Croatian products, and we have to... it's not a big deal this exports fell. Our exports fell in the back quarter simply because these canals are no longer what they used to be. And that's why I'm talking about where our suppliers' policies will be in the next four to five years, that's the key answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77256	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Lalovac, you say you are concerned about what will happen after the settlement, what the shelves will look like, alluding to Croatian suppliers, or as you said to the Croatian food industry. If it hadn't been for the Emergency Administration Act, Croatian suppliers would primarily not have charged 60% of the debt, 3 billion and 700 million kuna, thanks to the implementation and implementation of the Law on Extraordinary Rights that Agrokor went bankrupt. And according to data that has been done so far in Croatia, one analysis has shown that suppliers do not... creditors not states and not employees. In the bankruptcy procedure, the suppliers you are now alluding are charging around 4% and everyone is going now... in Croatia defined that all the suppliers that you are alluding and who you are worried about can be charged for. I am also concerned about the fate of Croatian suppliers, the Croatian food industry and I want them to continue to grow stronger and stronger after the settlement and regardless of the settlement, but it should be said that they have received 60% of the old and border debt so far, thanks to the Law on extraordinary administration. The second thing you said, you say that we are, and that's true by the law on amendments and additions to the Law on profit tax, or by the Tax on Profit, said that banks would be recognised as a tax expenditure to determine the write-off of disputed loans or claims and that this would be accounted for as tax-recognition expenditure. If they like you said you sold your claims you said 17 billion kuna... it doesn't include them pure balance, they... in tax recognition expenditure, so that this measure announced by the Ministry of Finance which refers to exactly such claims will obviously have to be realised through the buyers of these bank claims that are based on...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77258	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I see you've got a lot of details about what's been charged. I have to admit that what I see from the public is that every day there's some kind of conflicting information about how much it's charged, so on the one hand I'm reading all of a sudden the Sberbank is challenging their claims, they're arguing because they're trying somewhere else to charge and then there's some sort of settlement going on without Sberbank, is they allegedly going to take it to Mercator, they want to take it to Serbia, etc. You challenge them, not you, but those who disputed, and then a cake was formed that should have been shared as much as anyone will participate in that settlement. We see Mr. Peru comes back, suddenly Sberbank comes back, which is good, that part, and now all of a sudden Sberbank's got 60%, now suddenly Sberbank's got 60%, and then who's she pushed? So I say, I don't have that information, I see, now all of a sudden they have 60%, how could they then be challenged by their claims, my people? Well you can't say here one day we'll challenge your claims, the next day you'll come back a little bit, so I mean my people, it's too serious. So how do they suddenly have 60%? Then where are the suppliers? If they got 60%, suppliers got 60%, Knighthead charged 100%, and these say they're worth a billion and 800. You said they charged 60% and now it says in the paper that Sberbank will be charged 60%. ... How can it not say? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Knighthead charged 100%. How much did Knighthead charge? That's why I talk all the time and everyone says it's worth a billion and 800. And what he said, between a billion and 800 to 3 billion and 800. I say it doesn't matter, okay, they all look at their claims, let them in that part, it's theirs, they participated in the financing of Agrokor all the time, all those suppliers supported and gave and funded it. And they will write down their share of their claim, which they will not, or will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77260	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77261	Dear Representative Lalovac, we're basically all the time saying that there's a rise in the wrong place, so the governor says there's been a growth, yes, there's been a rise in his salary. Minister Maric's tax reform to raise the salary of parliamentary deputies, ministers in the government, has seen a rise in employment in state agencies, in ministries, that has seen growth. But tell me, why didn't there be a growth in, say, workers' salaries in INA, why are they down 30%? Why is HDZ's Longwater arrests asking to be paid to the workers by 30% if we have growth? Why is there a pay cut in Croatia? Why do Croatian qualified workers leave the country mass if they are so well, raise wages, so I see no reason why they should leave. I would also like to ask you, given that you were Minister of Finance, how do you comment on these figures presented by Governor Vujcic that the Croatian economy is in charge of 700 billion kuna? Where are we gonna get that back? It's practically 100 billion euros. So you say citizens live with 2, 3000 kuna a month and each of them is indirectly in charge of another 175,000 kuna. Every child born today must take that terrible debt, I don't know where we're going to get it back, and why don't we change the policy that led to such a task? It is a question that I would like him to answer, he only blindly continues to carry out one and the same and does not offer any answers to these extremely painful questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77262	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, so when it comes to this kind of total debt, the state is somewhere at 80% of GDP, citizens are somewhere around 40% of GDP in that kind of private debt and companies, or companies, are somewhere on 80, so that's about 200% of GDP, which indicates that the economic models we had in the previous period that actually generated high economic growth rates that were exclusively based on debt, and that financial leverage, so the whole time it was going, it was pumping. This was done, we have a very large part and Croatian citizens who did not have registered that part of the debt at all, and we know that, and we remember when a fellow Scybola with his RBAs tried to solve and resolve that part of the debt at all, because it is nowhere registered, so there is one very large part of the citizens who did not have that part at all because they actually transferred it, so they are asking questions about some new growth models, we know that 60% of it, I tell you, personal consumption makes it GDP and now the question is how to restructure private debt companies, corporations, one part of it was actually trying to get through pre-departures, how successful it was, the other part is now trying to get through this part of a certain bankruptcy or the problems of the judiciary, here is Mr. Bačić was saying how many companies actually getting into bankruptcy, meaning 4 to 5%, in fact very little is obtained in that particular bankruptcy. And that's actually when we talk and that's when we see the European Commission's report, when it talks about this insolvency procedure and the process of obtaining and billing the claims of its... And the believers are actually very low. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about structural reforms, that now for some time when he's talking, I think it's one of the most important reforms, knew how to quickly get out of debt, how to reset that part, how to go back to the market, and actually see on the other hand, there's money, but that money can't get to that part of the citizens and the companies, because it's just a jam in the whole, is it a judicial system, is it some other system and actually an administration, but just here's 6, 7 years, just one and the other government can't find certain elements to break those barriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77264	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77265	Thank you, Vice President. I'm listening to your debate and you've been discussing the economy, what's going on. So I'm also wondering if this is possible for 25 years of the state's functioning, then let's have wars, that they couldn't really lay the foundations of the economy in the right and the right way. I don't think they didn't know that, I don't think they wanted to. Of course, now we're here where we came from. If we look at the past, we'll understand what our future is, if we look at the future, what is the present. This present we have now, of course we accuse Plenkovic, this government, they are guilty of Agrokor, but this government is not guilty, of course not guilty, it can't be guilty, someone who came last year, and it's not the one who was four years old. So I wonder, here you were when the SBER bank gave credit to Agrokor, when no European bank gave credit to Agrokor. Did someone then enter Agrokor and see what was going on? Well, it's not. And what does that mean? We don't have a legal state. We can do whatever we want for certain companies, we can do whatever we want, and when we get into trouble, gentlemen, let's get rid of it. Well, it's very hard. Of course it's hard to solve when you're going down, and then it's being done systematically without telling me about the money and everything else that's being said. In the end, some things are known. We can't develop a state if we do and we don't see what the foreigners are up to. Of course, milk and butter imports, the largest imports of milk and butter in Croatia. We farmers have already developed, where we can develop, we have ruined it. We invest in tourism which is asked what will be, what time will be. Well, you said it a little while ago. What we have safe and where we can do something we don't do, we destroy it. Of course, the West wants us to take all of Slavonia, as Agrokor will take from us. The question is, how will it end, and who is to blame? No one seems to be guilty in this country. Of course it's someone's fault he has to follow those banks. First, he has to monitor the investment and he has to monitor the movement of money. We don't do that. And then we grab our heads on how we're gonna deal with it, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77266	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So about this part because you said about approving certain loans to Agrokor. I'm not exactly an advocate for any clerk or public service entering private companies and dictated to him some kind of private property for the reason he certainly can't, it's always some kind of dubious decision. The SBER bank itself estimated when it gave a certain billion and something, a billion and some million euros. I'm just trying to point out certain ways of risk management, and that part is certainly the way of risk management and is controlled by the Croatian National Bank. In this case, no, because the SBER bank was outside that part of the business, where they place that billion and some million euros, and after three months, a certain collapse actually occurs. So it didn't happen that they funded them for ten years. So all the entrepreneurs who funded Agrokor, you know how they count. They say, we've already charged well in that part. In fact, those who gave you certain bonds and debts and the whole process because they had done business with them for ten, fifteen years. And they actually, they had their own particular interest and they actually funded it. And they today in this finality, no matter what policy they make in that, they're actually going to make the most of the burden. They financed it, they signed the bonds, they participated in these entire processes. So the question is how many civil servants, officials, etc. needs. to enter such certain private companies. However, this is certainly one reminder, but which will certainly be regulatory, we must, if we have noticed it now, change the laws and set it in regulation, because then we can call certain institutions whether they have done something or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77268	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77269	Thank you very much. What the governor said about the strong fiscal consolidation in the second half of 2016, you touched a segment that is very interesting and we can make a link between the report we adopt here and what the CNB is doing and see if it can be connected. So shipbuilding. You remember that in 2003 the deficit for 2010 and 2011 was corrected for 12 billion kuna. In the CNB report, there is no reason why such expansion of the deficit occurred, which was the cost of restructuring shipbuilding. So the cost of restructuring Croatian shipbuilding cost $12 billion. For that money and the money that was paid, and you were a minister for the next three, four years from the state budget, someone had to restructure those companies. He didn't restructure them. He's got nearly 15 billion kuna. For that amount, there is a greater public debt of the Republic of Croatia. Now the question arises if we give someone something to survive, that a certain economic branch might survive, whether we control whether it works or not. Because if a restructuring program were built in those shipyards, they wouldn't be in trouble today. But also, in one of its reports, the CNB will have to say in some future periods that the problem in that one shipyard is currently weighing more than 8 billion kuna. If the biggest tragedy of these 8 billion kunas is about state guarantees. So that's why I did say that this CNB report has to be a little bit more lifelike. Because here today we are discussing a second step that the CNB doesn't control so much, because the CNB report is talking about the banking sector and we're talking about the execution of this banking sector all the time. But let's make some connections, so you'll see that certain indicators have a lot of power, and then we'll talk here a little bit differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77270	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it seems to me that total shipbuilding around all the government, about 30 billion, means somewhere 10% of the total public debt of the Republic of Croatia is actually investments, i.e. the maintenance of the shipyard in these 27, 28 years. Yes, 27, 28 years means keeping them alive, maintaining that part of industrial production, maintaining their cooperatives, etc. If we were to deploy this part of the public debt, we need to see very much how much that part of the health care, how much that part of the pension system is, how many other infrastructure projects are that, and we know that the roads are part of the infrastructure projects and that they carry us. And then very simply when you see how much of the public debt of these now famous 300 billion kunas can actually be set up that were actually active, which were in fact total policies and finalists that these restructurings that were carried out and we see unfortunately shipbuilding although privatized, although there were certain small shareholders, all the models seemed to me in the Republic of Croatia were trying, private, foreign and these and these, simply some economic trends, especially in such a competitive industry as shipbuilding simply showed that they were too difficult for the Croatian shipbuilding industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77272	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77273	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lalovac, you mentioned tourism, personal consumption, it is quite certain that the only stable GDP growth can be based on industry growth, on the reduction of trade deficits, on export growth. And what concerns us in this report, regardless of what it is for the first part of 2017, but clearly shows that we can now say this folkly, I taste what we have mixed up. And when we look at the report and the HBOR of all those previous years, then we see that in these unpaid claims, those that are non-refundable, prevail in most of the loans that have been paid for current business, not for capital investment, and actually that level of capitalization of our businesses conditions this structure, that we have when we talk about the loans of the population we have 112 billion and the entire enterprise 84 billion. For the food industry, 20 billion and I say, for the citizens' current account, seven billion. Well, the fact that elementary mathematics says something's wrong, deep down, it's not right. The CNB says, here's Mr. Androvic says like this, it's true that the CNB is trying to increase the offer of kuna sources of financing conditions of permanent liquidity surpluses in the system at an interest rate at this point of time about 1.2%, although banks also have mobilised kuna assets in the CNB, watch out for more than 50 billion kuna and do not make any interest income on them. And banks don't have the motivation to do that at all, and he explains why they don't have the motivation. And our companies, because of the low level of capitalisation, can't reach the funds and it's not the fault of the companies, it's true that tax policy, but above all reform, everything we have to do to free and let's say it here publicly, public procurement, so we have today, we don't have a competition, we have a clienteletic in which all public procurement is corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77274	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, when you actually gave a certain cut to the structure and impact on the economy and the surplus money, I say, it shows that no government or I who participated and the current government is simply very difficult to find mechanisms and transfers of that money to entrepreneurs, we were trying something in 2012, 2013 through HBOR, through a certain risk division, through certain subsidisation of certain interest rates, there is certainly a CNB helped, however, there has been a certain short impact, it was not exactly that some part of the economy has now been withdrawn, we see on the other hand that we still have one of the copies of the funding are European funds, today you can get to the European investment bank, but just the whole of that transmission of that particular money comes to entrepreneurs, encouraging the whole, we're just still stiff, still very much blocked, still very much still very unresolved, because they're in the right, you can're simply not traiprate, State subsidies are given, subsidies are constantly given through certain pressures and I am simply afraid that 76 hands or 77, 78 is simply not enough for one more serious restructuring of the economy and I am afraid that there will take more than 100 hands in this House to make some painful cuts to make that very flow towards the economy turn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77276	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the next Club of Representatives and that's the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77277	Dear Vice President, Mr. Vujcic, governor of the CNB, vice governors. Here's for sure a lot has been said today, but here's a report covering 2016 2 half-years and 2017. 1st semester, although we are already here in the first half of 2018, it is worth doing anyway recapitulation of movement, macroeconomic movements in this period and it is not bad to see it in this way where we see the reflection compared to the previous year, 2015 and those before that and what happened over here 2.5 years since this report and we haven't had this report, otherwise with the shift of the normal midterm report so here, we can really see that there have been a number of changes in the previous period and they are not so insignificant and they are not as simple as some want to show it. In this way, we will look at what happened to GDP, inflation, employment movements, public finances, balance of payments, foreign debt, monetary movements and monetary policy but also some specific developments such as a very striking event, and this is the state and impact of Agrokor, which is undoubtedly very significant regardless of what it is not that someone is wrongly interpreting, it has not so strongly reflected this part of monetary policy in terms of some fractures, however, in relation to the overall economy, it has clearly reflected. I will put this together between the two, in 2016, so, the first and the second half and the first half of 2017. So, in the first half of 2016, GDP grew, so in the first 6 months it was 2.7% higher compared to the same period last year and there it could be seen that there were more significant investments in fixed capital and that exports of goods and services were also slightly increased. At the same time, however, what we talked about earlier also increased imports, which was somewhat faster in view of domestic demand. At the same time, when we look at economic activity in the second half of 2016, it is evident that the annual growth rate was 3.1%, which was 0.4% more than in the first half. It was, in any case, influenced by the favourable movement in tourism, so all that was happening in this successful season that continues. There has been an increase in the growth of personal consumption, and there has also been faster growth in state spending. At the same time, we had a change in tax policy that actually increased the purchasing power of the population and thus increased demand. In the second half of 2016, investment growth slowed, as seen from all your reports, but what we have to say is that from the data we have employment has increased and thus the unemployment rate since 2015 which was 16.3% decreased in 2017 to a level of 12.4% which is very good. But normally, in these circumstances, we have to think about what happened with those young people who left this environment and how much they affected the reduction in unemployment rate, whether it was such a big impact, so it's very important for us to have all those statistical research and ultimately, to examine with the data that we have and that we can test from those countries that we have gone to. It is true that in this period there was also a recovery, especially in the second part of 2016, there was a recovery of the demand for loans and that was the first time after several years that were actually frozen, so that credit institutions in the companies increased by 3% and the population by 0.5%. During this period, we must say that the marked growth of credit in kunas was highlighted, which was not until then. So that's when that shift was already made, where we can't forget that we mentioned more than once, that we as a state have domestic savings of over 75% in the euro, and that our debt obligations are tied to the euro and that they are over 67%. So now this relationship is changing in one way. However, we must not forget that, this is also what my colleague Lalovac mentioned earlier, that there was also a part of the liabilities and loans and ultimately of the debtors who were not in the system and were not recorded through the system, but were creating additional problems and obligations in a way that they were borrowing beyond the system which is here, it was finally shown through the RBA cooperatives and all the other loans on the pillars. So these are the problems of life that exist in the Republic of Croatia and that you certainly need to solve, which you can't because you don't have measurable indicators, you can't implement what you're talking about and what your report is talking about. So you can talk and we can discuss what's in the system and what from the system of this, which you control, you can say that happened in the monetary system. In the first half of 2016, therefore, there was also a decrease in gross reserves in that part, while the reserves increased after that period. So, it's good to see what was going on in the meantime, and also, bank activities, what we've also heard in part, they've been fixing their balance sheets and fixing their regularity in terms of clients, in the payment of loans. Here she would have mentioned, here yesterday was announced, that they were, for example. factoring companies in previous years had about 100 and some million profits, however, this year, will result in a few hundred million losses in 2017. So we have to be aware that they are in that period, and we have to say that it happened in 4 months. 2016 Agrokor, therefore, comes from all these events that were imminent and whose witnesses we are, and certain developments in that capital market affecting the business of these companies. And normally that I personally do not support and I will never support any crazy lending, I am always a supporter of precisely conservative methods, which, even here, you are in one way advocating. And if all of us actually had access to it together and that way, then it wouldn't happen if we had over-indebtedness and businesses and citizens on one side, because now compared to what we say there are 320 thousand blocked, exactly, by the statistics of FINA. Over 40 billion is a total debt, however, it is a debt along with interest, not what colleagues mentioned was a debt plus interest, it is a debt increased by interest and amounts to $42 billion. And when we say that of those 320,000 blocked that they had protected accounts, over six billion kunas went through. So these protected accounts were, they allowed certain citizens to survive, however, whether everything was both in these methods and in the methodology exactly and correctly and whether these citizens might have been able to partially service a part of their debts. If statistics show that more than 75,000 are blocked up to 10,000 kn, then we must also discuss this vision, perhaps the responsibility of all of us to discuss how we should think about our debts. What is very important and that we are, fiscal policy was particularly in the 2nd half of 2016, leading a quality policy, so the reductions are missing, so that the debt of the general state, at the end of 2016, was 84.2%, and with a tendency of also today's reduction. In 2017, in this first half we have achieved the strengthening of one part of economic growth, however, what we must never forget, and that is, what is mentioned through the European Commission report, so we cannot satisfy the current growth rate and it must not satisfy us in the sense that we must live on these laurels. It really takes a lot more reforms, a lot of work both in health and in agriculture education and in agriculture, it is necessary to restore the same trust in business, in business people, in relationships between employers and employees, and it is necessary primarily to resolve this insolvency, the indifference that exists, the long term of payment, that is what has certainly burdened us for too long and that is the only way we can continue to work quality. We also cannot be satisfied with the fact that even with these trends, some MPs who want the euro exchange rate to become significantly different, i.e. fluctuating, because then this would lead, again, if not controlled, to have a new large number of people again, which will be, given the 67% of the debtors in the euro, who would then become debtors, or perhaps become blocked citizens, which is in no interest to anyone. Thank you very much, the HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77278	Thank you very much. He had several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77279	Dear Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, I am asking you one question and as representatives of the HDZ and presidents of the important Committee on Finance and the state budget of this House. It is for you, Mrs. Peric, that the CNB determines one interest rate which is called an econtaneous interest rate, with which it would, as others,... The bank was to buy out the bonds, however, it never bought any bonds at that interest rate, thus setting an interest rate that does not have any practical application, so it is pointless. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the determination of the interest rate, escontaneous, plays an extremely important role, which is that it serves as a basis for determining tight interest on debtors and court disputes. Now, by 2007, this econcentrate rate was 4.5% and watch out for Mrs. Peric, coming in 2007, the financial crisis begins and behold wonders, the CNB rises from 4.5% to 9% escontaneous interest rate. I repeat, it rises from 4.5 to 9%, and that starts with the calvary of many of our citizens, today I have 330,000 to this interest rate of 9% then add a factor of 5% to them, means 14%, and so debt slavery is created. This created an army of citizens who didn't see any perspective, they became prisoners of a system like this designed by the CNB, and she realized it until about a year and a half ago, two days ago, and she's leaving this system to determine this reference rate and hand it over to the banks to exculpate from it. Do you feel as a member of the HDZ guilty of this kind of conduct by the CNB that you have supported for years?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77280	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77281	The current escort rate since 2015 was 3%, so in 2007, exactly 4.5%, and it was growing, so it was also the response to the obviously economic crisis that was the same and the scale that it was during that period, I'm sure I'm not happy that there was an increase and that this is how this army was created, what you say, blocked and sure it wasn't good. However, our central bank, the CNB, has instruments that have and had to be dealt with in a certain way at that time as the law requires them, but in this case, I do not feel responsible, but I certainly strive to resolve these problems but not so that anyone's debt is being transferred to Croatian citizens but Croatian citizens must be able to qualify and enable them to pay their debts to extend their payment deadlines, to take responsibility for their debts they have made or which they will do. So it is up to all of us to educate our children or friends and others, in this way to help each of us think the way we should think and think where, when, and how we will be in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77282	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77283	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mrs. Peric, you talked about the fact that the Croatian government is seeking a surplus and that it is slightly even achieving a budget surplus. But what is the function and role of that surplus when we see that we have over 300,000 people in the blockade? So on what basis is this budget surplus being created, that's what I'd ask you? And the budget surplus is created over the back of those weakest, fiscal restrictions, meaning tax hikes and even greater poverty among citizens. This austerity policy that's been tried in Greece, Spain, Italy, do you know what coincidence it leads to? More than 50% of voters are elected by the Eurosceptic parties until the coincidence of those who choose in Italy. I would ask you, you say, if there is a devaluation, the devaluation is a monetary act, the depreciation is a market act, if the CNB makes a devaluation, there is an even greater borrowing of Croatian citizens. That's true, but it's exactly within the set frames, so no one in any way wise would go into devaluation without abolishing the currency clause. What happened to the Swiss franc? Do you think that according to the parameters, the CNB could have predicted that the Swiss franc course would strengthen or that no one knew and no one should have known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77284	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77285	So, fellow Scybola, do you think 300,000 blockeds need all of this that's achieved the surplus, so whatever it is, we share with all of it blocked and we say here we're going to calm it down and no one at all? Well, I don't think that's the answer. Saving policy, so I don't see that we've been very restrictive in budgeting either 2016 or 2017, and we can't compare ourselves to the austerity measures in one Greece. So I don't see any fear here. As far as devaluation is concerned, yes, it is true that it would not work in that case if the currency clause was not lifted, however, are you ready to be the governor of the CNB, would you tear down your own monetary system, if you have, 67% of the citizens who owe the euro currency. I don't know in which way you think it's possible, you need to know, when you're talking about this, then you have to have a whole picture, all the parameters, all the influences, ownership structures, banks, businesses, etc. and eventually all of this information so that we can manage the system properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77286	Thank you. The response of the respected representative, oh excuse me, is the next replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77287	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Peric, you mentioned the loans from the pillars. However, Croatian banks offered the same loans from their websites, the exact same loans. Credits in which they negotiated the interest rate which is variable and which is changed by the bank's decision, imagine that, by decision of the bank, and the border is a tight interest. Imagine that. The contractual provision that the bank says will change the interest rate by its decision and that is the point. The CNB also states that this is normal, and the Law on Mandatory Relations says no, it is not normal, says the contractual provision must be specific, and it can be determined when the Treaty Act contracts the information on which the contract provision will be determined. The decision of the bank is not such a data, the data is a variable parameter, the data is a fixed interest margin, the data are mathematical values. Until today you have not been able to study what the banks have done to Croatian citizens, you are not interested, you are not going down to the level of Croatian citizens at all, you are only interested in your position here in the Croatian Parliament, you are interested in the position of banks, you are interested in the position of capital, you are not interested in Croatian citizens. You don't have to sit here, that's my opinion, as long as you don't decide to lower yourself to the level of Croatian citizens and to the level of law. A law which states: a contractual provision, a contractual act must be determined. On 13 June 2014, the Court found that such a contractual provision was unfair, no harm and that banks should not, in the future, behave in such a way as to continue to act on their own terms, since they have freely determined the interest parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77288	The answer of the respected representative Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77289	Dear fellow Alexic. While I've been doing very much the work of blocked companies, crafts, citizens and others, you haven't done anything in this country at all, therefore, you can't perform in such a way, because it's more than arrogant and rude. In addition, I do not say that all the provisions were defined and good for Croatian citizens and for the economy, however, when and when you took credits in banking systems, controlled systems, then there is an opportunity to change that. And when you take them off the pole or into a suitcase, then you can't change anything, then you become a dependent citizen and citizen who's in blocks for a lot of things, then you become quite a problem, not just to yourself and your family, but to the whole society, so I'm talking about it, you can ask the system for something, it can be fixed, and when it's not in the system, then you can't see it, but when it culminates, then it can't be seen, but it can't be done in that way, you can't react from the system and fix it systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77290	Thank you very much. We will now move on to individual debates, the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77291	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, and I welcome the governor of the CNB with the co-workers of the vice governors. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will in these 10 minutes try to focus on the most important points related to this report, however, every CNB report that comes here to the Parliament, it is similar to an egg and everything is fine. On the other hand, I have a problem that I can't figure out if we live in the same country, and obviously we don't live in the same country. Why are the CNB data always good, and why are there no mistakes in her business? So because there, I just said, the leadership that makes up 8 people, officials, at the same time they are also members of the CNB Council that brings sublegal regulations from the field of monetary policy supervisory and watch out and worry about implementation and control. So, the same people do everything, draw up monetary policy, make regulations, check and no one controls them. But there's another interesting thing, and that's that there's a research department, which is positive, but it's writing these publications, and it turns out to be all 5 in these publications. How is the European Central Bank working, gentlemen? Well, she's doing things differently, completely different. I also don't understand how the CNB, and we are in the EU, when it comes to the Eurozone, does not look at the European Central Bank as regards transparency, where prominent institutes such as Bruegel, Ifo Institute, Vienna Institute, etc. do continuous analyses and then every quarter in the annual, governor of Croatia, not the CNB, but the European Central Bank, comes to the so-called Testimony or hearing before the EU's highest institution. So we have a fundamental problem of transparency and we have to solve it, because in this country, intransparency and clientism have suffered such a tailor, that we cannot get out of this system, but there is one happy news, respected citizens as possible. Well, only with new people, with new politicians, who will change this Parliament, who has become a maid, these across the street, and that is the government, and therefore, the executive authority is in charge of us here and the CNB only in particular. Now, to move on to what has been proclaimed in Croatia in recent months, on a joint project to introduce the euro, both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB are working in an audible fashion. Okay, on the one hand, it is our obligation, because some people have signed long ago, in EU accession acts, that this is a commitment, etc., etc. However, what is the goal, which is the ultimate goal of such a project. Who's in a hurry? He's in a hurry to run the CNB because soon the elections are in a few months, to continue to run the institution as they have run it, and it works how it works and leads our collapse, further. And on the other hand, the Prime Minister has an interest because in a year's time, the EU elections are like this, and he probably predicts that he has an interesting spot there. So, as far as the euro is concerned, if I were to speak now in the language of the university professor, so I don't mind introducing the euro, I wouldn't have if this country were completely consolidated about the economy and if we had a standard of living as the most developed EU countries. However, we see that this is not the case at all and that the requirements for a faster introduction of the euro actually lead us to sit on a fast train that drives to Greece. In this context, therefore, we must completely speak the truth and let us not cheat on the citizens, and some day an interesting one was information, that the high school students who came to the CNB and gave them a lecture on the advantages of the introduction of the euro and they voted and did not support high school students could not be convinced that the euro should be accepted. It's a serious story about the euro, and that's what you should be careful about. And just to say one more thing, the countries, the EU members, who still kept their currency, they had the highest GDP growth rate since the 2008 financial crisis and beyond. Let me remind you, what has been the mistake of the CNB since the financial crisis and so far, because this is an opportunity, we have had a full 3 years of deflation, a negative inflation, which has destroyed, and deflation can be worse than inflation, we have had the longest recession in the EU, and it has confirmed, it has been confirmed in the material that arrived on March 7th of this year by the European Commission, where it is on the 73rd page. It points to criticism and proposals that need to be changed by this government, and monetary policy here is a very important part. What do you say next? What we've been trying to run in this House the whole time, and you see, no one has dared to talk about the monetary policy in the CNB until the parties came to the Parliament like Change Croatia, Living Wall, until the SNAGA came, independent representatives like Marin Škibol, some members of the Mosta, etc. This second, it just went as it went, and then, gentlemen, when we change, reform, the monetary system of Croatia, and the party changes Croatia, it has as its key goal, we will eventually implement it with the support of the people. Now, as you would say here, the CNB has culled and allowed almost every small bank in Croatia to be destroyed for the past 10 or 20 years, and you don't have almost one small bank, and the situation around Agrokor, which is well known to us, says that there's been a lot of murky and responsibility being borne by the CNB and I repeat, today I'm going to ask for a written request, I've written a request closed with the one of the National Security, Finance and Budget Committee, and we're going to call for a hearing of the former and current governor, former and current head of the HANGA, but also the head of the SOA, means that we, as Parliamentarians, hear what's being declared a secret, because we can't be without us, therefore, in a closed meeting, that we have no idea, that we're sitting there. It's transparency, this country must have, it must have Croatian people, we can never get out of this crisis, gentlemen without it. We will, as a party, insist. For the party Let's change Croatia, our, let's say,... The ideological opponent is neither HDZ nor SDP, these are children of the same parents, i.e. neoliberal parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our key challenge, this kind of deformed capitalism, is the financial oligarchy that created an army of 330 thousand blocked citizens, and people who run financial institutions don't care about it. Therefore, as long as we do not implement the CNB reform and monetary policy, we can never expect any exit towards faster growth rates, let alone progress. The CNB as it has been and now, it is a key obstacle to getting out of the crisis. And you see, if there was a debate here right now about the Istanbul Convention, this would be all full, why? Because the HDZ in the SDP cares about the ideological issues of the conflict still Croatian people, and the story of the army of unemployed, blocked, those who go abroad, it's not your concern, but there are new political parties and forces coming and a number of us standing here, who are in the Parliament, we're going to change this, otherwise there will be no life for anyone in this country. And now, what can I finally say about work? You, Mr. Governor, are saying that banks are loaded like a boat of money, loaded, and then you wonder why, and even if something fell interest rates and those when they fell another ten times not ten, ten times more than in Slovenia not to speak any further. Why can't companies get loans? So because the CNB doesn't act like the European Central Bank at the time of the 2008 crisis, you know what I'm talking about, but tell me why you're not implementing, can't you or can't you? If you can't tell me who's defending you? Do you have any restrictions? And you know how to free these channels and how to get that money to businesses and how to make the economy go. So this is where the key battle is being fought in this House and politics between sovereigns and globalists. We will fight for this kuna, the party Change Croatia wants to affirm the national currency as long as we can talk about it and...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77292	Thank you. Very interesting and strong words you used, I bring you good news, but we're going to the replicas. The first replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77293	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. And thank you for the good news you bring us. Mr. Lovrinovic, I remember the time you were in the Bridge and there was a chance that you would become a minister. There was talk that you would become either Minister of Finance or Minister of Economy etc. And I remember actually how upset those financial structures were then that they were using the morning list, certain media to make you who were the Dean of the Faculty of Economics look like some non-professional person, some dilettante, some anarchist who wants to break the monetary system. Do you see Professor Lovrinovic using all the methods of these structures through the media to compromise, to differentiate anyone who examines their economic dogma, the economic dogma that brought Croatian society into a state of collapse, over 300 thousand people in a blockade, who cannot breathe, who cannot repay loans and who are laughing at them? You talked about the introduction of the euro, the Mastre criteria, nominal convergence, public debt over 80%, they boast that they meet all nominal convergences and public debt over 80%. They do not meet the Copenhagen criteria, and that is the rule of law because there is a syncope rule here in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77294	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77295	Thank you. Dear fellow Schibol. I'm glad we're fighting together and in the only option for weak, young people, threatened, blocked by no one, everyone gives them false statements. But when you asked me when I was in the Bridge why they came at me like that, they said Lovrinović was fighting for this chair, for this over there, here, but you see, I'm in the same place, I saved my cheek, I didn't want to sell or trade, and I won't. This is not why I came to politics, but to work on the well-being of Croatian people and all Croatian citizens. So, what are they for, let's say those interest groups we're putting at risk? They see that the rights, let's say the danger comes from this side because we are questioning the very foundations of the system that has become a pain in the ass. We must implement the reconstitution of a thorough reconstruction of the Croatian state and society because this cannot survive. And I repeat, it's only new people in the Parliament who have recently come like us, not those who have brought us to the brink of destruction. And they don't want to make anyone look like a punk, a criminal, set him up with something just to keep him from questioning what's wrong with them. And what is the key objective? Defense of interest. So we all know that the CNB has shriveled and allowed interest rates on its own people and businesses. So where are these democrats, where these Social Democrats are, that they didn't stand in defense of their people and their citizens. That's what this failed policy is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77296	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77297	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinović. Unfortunately, the euroisation has to be carried out, I'm a legalist, we have to sign it. However, what I am afraid of is the rape of Euroisation, we are going to force towards the euro, we want force towards the euro, and I fear that the EU will help us to enter this Eurozone system by looking through our fingers. The condition that public debt must be reduced to about 60%, I would not give up on that condition at all. There's no rate of debt reduction that's tolerated as if it's rapidly reducing debt, and then despite the fact that it's not 60% we're going to the Eurozone. No, we're going to 60% and we won't be in the Eurozone sooner. And another thing I have to say, I'm against the Eurozone as long as the banks are illegally operating. Until the Croatian banks are reduced to legal operating measures, there is no Eurozone, this is the first condition, the condition of all conditions. The second condition, 60% of public debt must be the total debt of the RH of GDP, without it we cannot enter the Eurozone, no relief and that is all wisdom. If we forcefully want to go to the Eurozone, we'll all die. Unfortunately, the CNB did not respect the fluctuating exchange rate from the euro rate, so it is now too late for such a thing. It's a done deal. We have missed all the chances as far as this is concerned and in the future there is really no point in changing the exchange rate of kuna compared to the euro if we are heading towards the Eurozone. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77298	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77299	Thank you. Dear fellow Alexic, I remember that summer, that hot day when with more than 20,000 sad citizens who were killed by the Swiss franc, we marched from the French square, Ilico to here and to the CNB. That's when a lot of people laughed. Many were sitting at home waiting for their problem to be solved. But I'm proud that's when we showed that something can be done in this country. And we'll do it in this area. I'm sure. But when you ask for the euro, Eurozone, it's not about introducing the euro of stories between little Ivica and Marica. We have signed, in fact, another one instead of us, the obligation to introduce one day, but it doesn't say anything when. You see that in Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, which is much better than we are. I repeat what I said 15 minutes ago, that the Republic of Croatia is completely consolidated and that we have a standard of living at the level of the richest countries no one would object. However, this has also broken down the pace of structural reforms and the rise of the strength of the Croatian economy, you know when we will enter the Eurozone under these conditions. To holy nowhere, as the people say. So no one can force us when we enter, but I explained why some people and structures are in a hurry to forgive this word, to get us into even greater mud than we have ever been before. It would be the last nail in the coffin of the Croatian economy and state. So the real question is to expose these people, the structures that want to lead us into an even more difficult situation. We see Greece rolling in trouble, and that country cannot be saved in a year and a half when the arrangement expires, you will see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77300	Thank you. The next individual debate is that respected representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77301	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs, the governor with his associates. So what does the CNB do in an inability to affect the state of the economy? She promises us a story about how we should go towards the euro, how it's a big project that will save us. The promise of a beautiful future, we could say heaven after death, it doesn't matter what we're suffering right now, but once we're far away, we'll be compensated, and that's how we talk about that euro, that when we succeed, and we know that we don't meet the conditions, we've heard that, in 10, 20 or 30 years, if we're alive, then we'll have honey and milk. I am, however, obliged for citizens who are looking at this transfer to say that the euro will not only solve Croatia's problems, just as it has not resolved its entry into the EU, but will actually charge us additional costs and further reverse the Croatian economy that is definitely not ready for the euro. I would like, say, to see the citizens who celebrated like that, and there was one good percentage of them 01.07.2013, when we entered the EU, here, it is now 2018, it will soon be 5 years, so let's see what these results are in those 5 years. Did the young people stop moving out, did the blocked ones unblock themselves, did the jobs open, did we have bigger salaries, was it better to be in health care, that but it's better to be in education, did pensions grow? No, they're not. The same is true of the euro, in fact, a bloated story that will ultimately have no significant effect because in these 19 countries that have already introduced the euro, it is quite clear that in these countries the unemployment of young people is also enormous, often even greater in some countries than in the Republic of Croatia, e.g. in Spain, that is generally high unemployment and that is a very common recession. If the Republic of Croatia entered the Eurozone, the cost of conversion of kuna into the euro would cost half of GDP. In addition, we would have to transfer 700m euros or about 5 and a half billion kuna to the European Central Bank. We should transfer 700 million euros to the so-called The European system, the European protection mechanism, would have to make coins, have to make bills, have to adapt and, should adapt accounting and be careful now what is very important, we would have to participate in paying the debts of other countries, which specifically means that we would have to pay the Greek debt. Croatia has no obligation at this time to pay Greek debts, but if it enters the Eurozone, it would have to pay Greek debts. So tell me, are we besides our debts that we already mentioned, so 100 billion euros, capable of paying Greek debts? The governor wants to push us into the Eurozone, and the public opinion survey shows that 70% of Croatian citizens are against the introduction of the euro. It's not my opinion, it's research by relevant agencies that have very good references. It is the same procedure when more than 90% of Croatian citizens are against GMOs, and here we find ourselves importing GMOs and GMOs. So we see clearly that one little elite is working against the interest of the Croatian people. Are we going to have a referendum for Eurozone entry? We won't. This will be decided by you and it will actually be a political decision, and it is my duty to warn citizens that there is no mechanism for leaving the Eurozone anymore. So I don't know before you get out of the grave but out of the euro area, because there's no possibility of breaking up at all, no. So once we give up monetary sovereignty, once we give up swearing, it's practically until Judgment Day because such a contract is essentially signed by the Croatian government. It is important to note that once we enter the Eurozone, a common interest rate will be imposed on us from the European Central Bank. It is a matter of time before we have it, and the common interest rate will not reflect well on the economy of many countries. Because it's not the same interest rate, for example, for a country that's in recession or for a country that's growing, and that's exactly what we're going to be forced to do. Since we will be imposed on a common interest rate, tax harmonisation will take place and Croats will have to pay those taxes they do not currently have to pay, for example, real estate tax. So these are also the additional costs we will have if we introduce the euro. In addition, it is common knowledge and I believe that even those who are not interested in this know that the introduction of the euro will lead to an increase in prices and above all the price of food and service, which means that all the burden of introducing the euro will actually be poured on consumers. So there will be no burden on the banking sector as usual, but right now citizens who do not already have enough money for food or services will have to borrow it further to bear the cost of introducing the euro. By introducing the euro, which is very important, Croatia will lose one of the most important tools of its sovereignty not only at the symbolic level, but also at the real level. And so it will further enter into a semi-colonial relationship in which no more important decision will be made in Croatia. It is truly amazing how much we admire anything that comes from Croatia. All we have is our own, and we have something to be proud of because we've been here for 1400 years. We despise it, and everything that comes to us from outside, we worship, we experience it as genius, as if wonderfully as if all these people who live outside of Croatia are aliens, I don't know the winners of the Nobel Prize, etc. And we're so left behind in the stone age it's good that someone's taking us by the hand like a blind man. It is saddened that the governor himself who listens to me now thinks that one of him is smarter and that he can lead Croatia better than he can. But, well, he doesn't really think long-term, he doesn't think about citizens' interests. It's important to him to get another mandate that's running out right now, so he's got to come up with something to justify his work, better say nelado in the CNB. So now we're going to introduce the euro. We have one story, we can appear in the media which times to see my photo and thus in some way try to gain the sympathy of those who decide. Therefore, the story of the euro has been completely missed. Croatia should remain with its kuna currency, completely abolish the currency clause. Without a currency clause to implement monetary reform, to go to targeted inflation, to bring the kuna into a real exchange rate, to collect imports, to cheapen exports and to achieve GDP growth rates that will be at least equal to those countries located in our nearest neighbourhood. Also reduce unemployment, increase employment. Of course, I did not reduce unemployment by moving out, but by opening jobs. And all that we can produce ourselves in Croatia does not import anything, nothing and especially food, especially those things that Croatia abounds in. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77302	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, here I have one happy news for you too, and that is that you will not believe in the EU there are smart people in the Eurozone who have realized that there are enough difficult patients to threaten the collapse of the euro and the Eurozone. And to receive another difficult patient like Croatia. They're more insistent on our servants from here than they want there and they won't let. And here's to telling you the other day, they refused Bulgaria to accept it, so at RNA2 so-called. Transitional mechanism. And do you know a colleague of Bunjac that Bulgaria has 45 tons of gold in its foreign exchange reserves? And you know the only country in the EU that has zero grams of gold? You know? Croatia. So, for example, Italy has 2450 tonnes, the Czech Republic 9 tonnes, Austria 280 tonnes, Hungary, Greece 120 tonnes, Latvia small 7 tonnes, Poland 110 tonnes, BiH about half a ton, Albania also something about half a ton, Slovenia 2 tonnes, Slovakia 32 tonnes. Tell us what you get if you had 16.15 billion euros to boast to the CNB whether you would keep it only in euros and dollars, something in francs, or like these other smart central banks diversify and hold gold. But I remind you, you remember we had about 15 tons of gold, so it was all sold and it was muppets, what for. So how do you assess this behavior of such an important institution in the context of other countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77304	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77305	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović. Well, I've heard there's a couple of employees in the CNB with a gold ring on their hand, so they wouldn't be able to say they have zero grams. Here may be one 10, 15 grams of gold, which is of course the consequence of the policy of the most successful governor in Europe, former predecessor of Mr. Vujčić the great Rohatinski who came from Agrokor and left Agrokor. And when they asked him why he traded four times his salary for as much as that, then he said I came here to be socially useful and here we see that we should believe it and then it was socially useful that he sold all of Croatia's gold reserves and today we don't have any gold. I don't know, maybe we should rebuild those old crafts on the Mura and Dravi River and send people with boats to shine gold again, maybe have something to do with it, so the CNB would finally have some little precious currencies. What is very important, however, is to note that the role of the central bank is to create money from nothing. So she has the right to broadcast the primary emissions, depending on what liquidity is needed in the country and then in this way she financed the entire Homeland War, the whole Homeland War is financed in such a way. And it is sad that we gave it up in 1994, and no one asked us to, be careful, no one asked Croatia to give up the primary show, but they gave up on their own and brought ourselves into such a position that from 1994 to today we have an absolute disaster of the linear fall of the Croatian economy and society in general, which is the worst of all and the number of inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77306	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Next replica, respected counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77307	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear comrade Bunjac. I have already said in the Eurozone because of the EU treaty we must enter, but Croatia's entry into the Eurozone will neither fix nor spoil, and it can hurt us. And that's why I said and I repeat once again, entering the Eurozone before we reach 60% of the BPD in total public debt for me is unacceptable, inadmissible entry into the Eurozone before that. And if we stick to that condition, we in the Eurozone can't get into the next ten years. In the next ten years, anything can happen, if the euro survives for the next ten years it means that the Eurozone is still a tough cat that is well held and that perhaps deserves to be part of the zone. So ten years is a minimum of some minimum time limit I'm predicting so we can enter the Eurozone. If we get in faster, it would mean that our economy has really grown because if we reach 60% of GDP in the total public debt in five, six years, then we are a successful economy, then we are developing well. I don't see a problem getting into the Eurozone at all, but that's not gonna happen. And I repeat once again, the first condition, the main condition to enter the Eurozone is to bring banks into legal frameworks of business. It is clear to me that Governor Vujcic has an agenda for joining the Eurozone and because it is part of his programme for a new mandate in the CNB. However, I will give Governor Vujcic my vote for the CNB mandate if it is proactive in resolving the illegal interest margins that are currently illegal in over 100 thousand loans because they are not agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77308	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77309	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Alexic. So as far as I've heard of people's wisdom, all you have to do is die. Therefore, arguing that we must enter the EU simply does not fully respond to reality because here we have an example of Great Britain, so a country that is some kind of cradle of democracy that has a long tradition and, most importantly, a strong economy has said it no longer wants to be in the EU. We have a whole series of countries that are looking to redefine their position in the EU, as I don't know Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, I'm not saying they're right, Italy, but they're simply not satisfied with their status. These some countries have profited from these others. Our entry into the Eurozone would look about like you came to a feast that just ended. The plates were taken away, the pots were taken away, the crumbs were left on your desk, and now you're like an equal guest after everyone settled down long ago. Therefore, Croatia simply has its kuna, has its currency and needs the same as the Czech Crown or Poland zlott or Hungary forintu, Russian ruble. Did Russia harm EU sanctions? They didn't, they strengthened her. These stories that we cannot do without the EU that we will pay for this or that. Has Iceland entered the EU? It's not. Is he all right? It is. Are the Croats moving to Iceland? They're moving out. Why? Because it's good there. And therefore, everything is simply subject to review, and I am also in favour of us in the Living Wall to conduct an objective public debate and to carry out another referendum after an objective public debate to confirm whether or not we have to be in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77310	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Marin Škibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77311	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Bunjac, you were talking about the Eurozone and Croatia's entry into the Eurozone. I just wanted to show you a detail that you may not have noticed how the CNB conducts that campaign to join the Eurozone. So they say to the public that Cost is in the making of benefit analysis, and on the other hand they go to colleges, they go to the public and talk about how they should join the Eurozone and accept the euro, and they say Cost is the benefit of the analysis. So they don't have a Cost Benefit analysis made to see what the benefits are, but they go to promote as well as how the euro should be accepted. So such a policy has nothing to do with logic and you mentioned the referendums. Look, serious countries like Sweden, like Denmark, are conducting Mr. Governor's referendums on the Eurozone. Sweden and Denmark refused the euro referendum, that's what you have to say. For example. The Prime Minister of Great Britain, so do you think he didn't have the exact information that Britain, ie. that the citizens of the VB were for leaving the EU, he had that information to Mr. Governor, but he again called the referendum. Why did he call for a referendum? Because a man is simple for democracy, it is a state in which democracy rules and how the people decide, even if the people decide to leave the EU, their political wants will not prevent it and we see it. On the other hand, we have an option out, VB and Denmark have an option out, why Denmark has an option out, and Croatia has no option out of Eura? Just because he's an older member, so some are more equal than equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77312	Thank you, fellow Skiboli on the line. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77313	In the EU, of course, discussions are held in Croatia in a way that two people who agree to talk in their opinion. I don't want to move now, let's say, the issue of this convention that's been talked about so much, but yesterday you had a debate on HRT that was exclusively advocates of one side and it's called a debate in Croatia. You had the same thing when it was the EU, they were just sitting at the table of four people who were in favour of joining the EU and it was called debate. Is this a debate? It's not a debate. I would like to watch a movie on HRT once about the situation in Greece, that someone gives us a documentary on the state of the economy in Greece and that the public finds out that in the entire history of the modern economy there was no such disaster as was caused in Greece, even on Wall Street in 1929 it did not cause such a disaster because Greece was under the pressure of the EU to adapt and to implement the austerity and structural reforms it has been talking about, among other things, and the governor of the CNB, lost 30% of its economy in a decade, 30%. So it's just a disaster of all disasters. And the country has the euro, the country has been practically in the EU since the first day, for what, half a century. And how did it go? Not at all. Just because there is no flexibility in that and only because national interests are not respected, so national interests are completely irrelevant. And tell me, at the same time, if they were Germany after II. The world's war-forgiving debts? Was Germany forced to pay for everything she did to the last swear? It's not. Germany itself has forgiven half the debt of the war damage it was owed. You see, these are these double criteria that are very easy to forget, which our public knows nothing about because there's nowhere to find them, and at least they'll find out from the governor of the CNB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77314	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77315	Dear Representative Bunjac, I listen to you, listen to people who are replicating you, it can be said in fact that the opinion of most MPs here is that we are against the introduction of the euro and that is also the opinion of the majority of the Croatian public. But the gentleman sitting there in the chair, the governor, he doesn't see it. I will therefore read Jesus ’ words to him from Matthew 15.13. He says, "Every seedling that my Father of heaven has not planted, it shall be rooted out." Then he said, "They are blind leaders of the blind, and if a blind man leads, they will both fall into the pit." I would dare say that in fact this policy that the governor advocates, that it is a blind policy and a policy that leads to Croatia in the pit, a policy where a blind man leads a blind man, and a few people who see, these blind people don't want to listen, even if they do, as we know, that they know better, etc. However, time will show that this monetary policy was wrong. When I say time will show in future time, I'm actually being dishonest. Because time has already shown, we already know, today, that this policy is wrong. Why do they still advocate it they know themselves, I suppose their motives, say in Serbian personal nature, we will say personal nature and that in fact society in the widest of such benefits, i.e. no benefit from that policy will they have. This is a policy in favour of the minority against the majority, but it is a paradox that when elections come, these parties that conduct such policies get 80 or 90% of the electoral body and that is the biggest tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77316	I thank my colleague Pernar. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77317	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. I would basically call that policy a coat-turning policy. So the most important thing is, I think, the governor to be governor. And his associates to be his deputies. I guarantee you that tomorrow if the Living Wall put together a government, they'd make the first phone call to us and we said we'd always been on your side. ... Yeah, we fought against the system inside, that's the best excuse. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now look what's interesting, what the governor said, you weren't here right now. He now, after Mr. Todorovic fled to London, he says the man should have been put in jail. And while he watched from the governor's position for 10 years as he cheated on the state and did us all to the donkeys, while Mr. Todorovic was speaking at the time, you are the most brilliant economicist in Croatia. And that's it. These people are all about their personal ambitions. It's important for him to be governor. He will accept whatever you command him. Today will be said by the European Commission, Central Bank press kuna he will print 100 billion kunas. If he tells him I don't know no lip, he won't say no lip. So he's got to do what he's supposed to do, and that's it. But that's not good because when it comes to citizens' interests, when it comes to interests, then you should simply say no and at a cost if you need to live your own life. It's the easiest thing to give up. Whichever power comes from, whatever I can do, I'm doing my job, etc. That's it. But then you should have a responsibility. And it was just those people who had the courage to stand up to each other who wrote history, and that's how it's going to be now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77318	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77319	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. I read today an article that talks about the initiation of the Masonic Lodge. He says like this in English is... It's some deacon log. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Who's there? Who goes there? ... So the one who wants to join you says:... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] So a poor, blind candidate who wants to be brought out of darkness into the light. ... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] to get the rights and privileges of participation in that lodge. ... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] It says set by God and dedicated to the saints. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Be careful what thought:... Such that no one should say about a Christian. ... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Christians don't walk in the dark. ... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] He who follows Jesus will have the light of life and follow him. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] John 8 and 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77320	Dear colleague Pernar I'd like you. [[I'm done with it now.]] Just a little while while I tell you. Your time has been stopped. I'd kindly please let you speak. You've talked about this time so far that you've taken advantage of what has nothing to do with the subject we're talking about. I would ask you now to make a nice transition to a track that leads to this subject of half-yearly financial information so that I don't have to interrupt you again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77321	Well, the financial situation in Croatia is a disaster, but those who think we're being led in the right direction are in error, great error, and I think this monetary policy is a disaster, and I'm going to say why. He says Croatia has registered a real wage drop compared to 2010 and now. So in these eight years, the real purchasing power of the citizens has fallen. These are the two mandates held by Governor Vujcic at the Croatian National Bank. We can agree that the number of employees also fell during that period. We can agree that industrial production is falling, that strikes have become daily. The other day he was in Ulnik, and then he was in Dalekvod, and now I don't know her in Chakovec some tricotage, or textile industry. Mostly worker strikes, mass emigration of young people, collapse of domestic production, especially agriculture due to cheaper imports. After all, Mr. Vujcic, 300 almost 30,000 citizens who are blocked accounts. Well, that tells you all about the state of deep indifference in which our society is located. In view of that 330 000 citizens, the question should be raised whether this financial system as such solves their problems or whether the debt of these citizens will just continue to grow. Apparently, Mr. Vujcic's debt-blocked will continue to grow, and that's what we witness from day to day, week to week, month to month. You've been telling us some fantasies about how you're going to cut your external debt. That's what Minister Maric's finances, Zdravko, told me recently. However, the fact that Croatia has penetrated the ceiling of 300 billion kuna these days amounts to a debt of the state, but the state is trying to cut it down, in fact, I would dare say that I find the right word with a makeup. So the state once says we're going to take 10 billion kuna loans for highways and we're going to pay them back, but we're not going to count it as a debt of the state. So you're doing some bookkeeping again. Again, the debt of the state does not appear to be a debt of the state, but despite all these cats, the debt continues to grow. And in the end, we come to the very citizens who are bitter about the situation in the country. 70% does not support the government's work, it is about 70% against the introduction of the euro, etc. etc. And the question arises is whether the citizens are satisfied with that monetary policy that you have implemented. Apparently, I personally have to tell you that I didn't. Why? So because I see all the statistical indicators, I look at the liquidity, I look at the public debt, I watch the number of employees fall, I watch the number of blocked and their debt grow, and so on. etc. But that's not what you're interested in. Why? Well, that's because you're okay. If a citizen who is currently in a blockade or without a kuna in his pocket had incomes like yours, and he wouldn't have, say, debts and blockades and he could say that this monetary policy is good. However, this monetary policy actually enables only a few people to live well, I would dare say elite, and most other citizens, I say the Greeks in debt, in blockades, survive from month to month, aware that if they lose their jobs or pay him late, etc. that the next day may also be decommissioned, and in the end, people are moving out of Croatia, which is why you are also witnesses. How acceptable this report can be to someone, I don't know, but I can guess why someone would accept this report, and that's next. That the policy that is being implemented in Croatia was decided on the outside and managed on the outside, and that it is being implemented on the inside and that the way you have implemented it was satisfactory for this and such authority. Why? We return again, you look at my court, your personal interests, in my court you don't care about Croatian citizens, and in the end you don't care about their opinions. Col. Skibol was well aware of the thought, he said you advocate the introduction of the euro, and you did not make an analysis of any benefit from it or damage. So why didn't they make Mr. Scibola? So because if they did, they would see that there are more damages than benefits, and thus the introduction of the euro would be free, but the introduction of the euro is imposed on us as an ultimate good, in the same way as it used to suggest that we join the EU. So the goal is not economic growth, the goal is no longer employees, the goal is no higher production, the goal is no smaller indifference, the goal is not to drop the number of bad loans, no, the goal is to join the EU. And then we get into the EU well, and what are the results? It's a disaster. Also in monetary terms, the financial situation is a disaster, your goal is not to solve the problem of liquidity, solve the problem of bad loans, exactly the opposite. Under your conductor stick, the credit crisis exploded, you had a case of as many as 35 billion kunas of bad credit to Agrokor Ivica Todorovic. And you're confused, you're surprised, you're saying how could this happen? Either you have that approach, or sometimes you have another approach. Sometimes you say, I warned, I was saying that you should be careful, but those calls you made about caution, and your suggestions that maybe Agrokor could find himself in a situation that he wouldn't return the loans, the citizens didn't hear. I didn't hear them myself. I've never heard you say it's very likely Agrokor won't be able to repay the loans and should be careful. And because of this end, this Todorovic spread as a modern Fikret Abdić "Babo" from Velika Kladura, the bonds without cover and those bons that were actually a paracurrency, i.e. a symptom of the situation in Agrokor which was such that there was no simple money, that our "babo" Todorovic had to pay with bons and notes. So there's no money and you're supposed to react. The role of the CNB is to react. You could have reacted in two ways. One is to make a reflection, to pump money into the monetary system, if it's obvious that money is terribly missing, that it's a terrible waste of money. Or you could point to that problem and say listen to the people, there's going to be a breakdown, it's going to be worse, this policy is taking us nowhere. You didn't make either one or the other. You're just letting everything fall apart in its own order. And here you are, my dear governor, and what can I tell you? I can clap for you, and you know it's not for clapping, but you'll have enough of them to clap for you, over 76, so don't worry. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77322	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pernar for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, you remember and know that for at least 15 years as a university professor, I have been fighting for changes in the monetary system and that my monetary reform comes first, and as far as I know, not only do we change Croatia, but we also have a living wall that comes first in monetary reform. You often say the same thing about whether our National Bank is a central bank or a exchange office, it is really a exchange office, it is neither Croatian nor national and we have yet to create, build a central bank that the developed world knows and serves the development of the economy and its citizens. We actually have such a destructive monetary system, you were even slightly and mild, which is unusual to me today, it acts destructively, and some have been cautious and said so it is a semicolonial system, it is a typical colonial mechanism which Croatia holds really in colonial status, does not allow it to develop. I'm sorry I can't explain as a university professor, give a lecture, I've been looking for it here in the Parliament for months, but they don't want the ruling coalition to deal with, the real topics, but they want the Istanbul Convention, the records, the screams, etc. So they run away from life issues, they impose divisions on the Croatian people, so I would ask you, you're a very temperate young man, so let's say this ruling coalition, but also the previous rule in these two parties, why they support the same concept of monetary policy, the kind of People's Bank as it is, why, why, until we came to the Parliament, so this one group of how many parties, so it wasn't even talked about, it was going away without any critical approach. Why does this structure support such a People's Bank?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77324	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Answer, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77325	Dear Professor, we live at a time of deep unfreedom inside and a display outside of great democracy, human rights, diversity of opinions and similar paroles. The fact is that Croatia is in a colonial position but through a more subtle way of colonization. Before colonization was obvious, the slave knew that today and this post to say, that is, the neoliberal age, colonization is subtle, it is led against countries and peoples by turning central banks into exchange offices, it is done by controlling the media and not by putting chains on people's hands, but rather by trapping people mentally through the media, through an educational system that indoctrinations them, washing their brains and, on the other hand, through debt, people are pushed into debt slavery and actually no longer need for those classical slavery, why? Because classical slavery is no longer profitable because before the slave owner had to solve the household for the slave, he had to provide food to feed the whole family, care for his health, etc. It's too expensive today, so people are actually left to be directly slaves to the system, not to some individual, and then this system suppresses them, suppresses them, exploits them, etc. And what's wildest and most interesting of all professors is that this is how elections come, these same slaves will vote for their masters again, they won't vote for those who want to free them from debt slavery, from actually a enslaved state of consciousness or a deep non-freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77326	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. The next replica, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77327	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, you've begun to talk about the Masons, I must say the Masons are allowed. So whatever we think of the Masons, they're allowed organization. I don't know who the Mason is, who he isn't, no matter, but it's not forbidden. That's one thing. And the other thing is, they're not masseous, the problem is the inaction of institutions. HNB's indemnification. The CNB doesn't do what her duty is. The CNB did not propose, Governor Rohatinski or Governor Vujčić did not propose amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations which would limit the way in which the currency clause was used in loans. We cannot ban the currency clause, the Constitutional Court has said that the currency clause is allowed, all right, but the currency clause can be limited, it can be written under which conditions the currency clause is placed to consumers. This could also be proposed by Governor Rohatinski and Governor Vujčić to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Finance, who always asks for the advice of the CNB when they pass certain laws, when they propose laws, would surely accept that the advice is given in official form. Governor Vujčić can say that he was here in the Parliament saying that it was not good to place the CHF currency clause, but he never formally proposed to the government of the Republic of Croatia a way to regulate the law. That's what Governor Rohatinski or Governor Vujčić should have done, that. Also, the CNB has already said, on its pages it has been ruling banks in administrative ways to determine interest rates by decision of the bank. And according to the Mandatory Relations Act, that's forbidden. What kind of legal service in the CNB that does not know Articles 269 to 272. The law on mandatory relations is articles based on Roman law that are over 2,000 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77328	Thank you, colleague Alexic. My colleague Pernar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77329	Comrade Alexic, at the very beginning, you said that the masseary is not a problem, but here, I have to say that it's one of the few things that I disagree with you about, and here's why. Because we know globally that secret societies are the ones who control the money-making process, or that monetary policy is not determined in accordance with the interest of most people living in some space, but in the interest of the minority who controls this financial system. Since this minority that controls, influences and determines the policy to be implemented is not publicly declared, so there is no group of people in Croatia who will say I don't know, we think we have a name, e.g. the advocates of the currency clause or the advocates of money as debt, advocates of debt slavery or advocates of the executive system that kills people, no, such a public group does not exist. And yet such a policy is being exercised over people which gives the conclusion that politics is being defined in secret, not in public, not in front of the media, not in front of TV cameras, and that then these people in the speaking Parliament are only those who are implementing and not those who decide on it. On the day when the Living Wall is in power, then the monetary policy of this country, the country's executive law and all other laws will be in the interest of citizens, then the interest of a single masseuse who recently went to that world will not be ahead of the interest, let's say 330 000 blocked but unfortunately the Living Wall will come to power, we will testify to the continuation of the murmuring of our citizens, inaction or misbehavior by the People's Bank, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77330	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77331	Thank you very much. Agent Pernar, we knew the governor of the CNB whose mission is to determine the situation. So he's finding a condition and that's it. He warns us, for example, that interest on loans will grow by 2% points, which in some citizens will mean 1/3 more interest than there is now, i.e. 500-700 kunas more credit rates and then warned us. It's like listening to a weather forecast, and then it says, "The storm on the Adriatic." And this one, now whether you go out in the storm or not, that's your business. Or, like when you come to church, the priest says to you, live by the Ten Commandments of God, love your neighbor, etc. So, pure moralization without action. Like if you came, I don't know, dentist, you say I have rotten teeth, and he says what I can, why you ate candy, so it's not right, you could read that, say, in the textbook. So the thing is, the governor needs to act. They need to do something, not just look from a distance without any interference, let's just say, in the course of the matter. We had a case of the Swiss franc and the governor knew very well, very well, I'm sure he wasn't so uneducated, that the Swiss franc fraud was realized in the '80s in the 20th century in Australia and that there this, all these loans were annulled by State intervention. He had to know that. If he didn't know, then he really didn't belong up there. And he was supposed to stop the citizens. It's not the duty of a citizen who comes to the bank to know that the bank will cheat on him, it's exactly the duty of regulators, people who have knowledge. Just like it's not the duty of citizens to study medicine, it's because he's a taxpayer to treat someone else when he's sick. That's the thing, inaction. That's the worst thing about it, the inaction that the CNB is responsible for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77332	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Answer me, Comrade Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77333	Dear Mr. Bunjac, imagine that Governor Vujčić is the head of the secret service and goes out to the media and says: Ladies and gentlemen, in two weeks, he will be in the Republic of Croatia three attacks by car bomb, a single ferry will be submerged and killed in the jacks and says the name of 15 people and goes back to his post after that conference. Well, people would all ask him, well, sir, so what do you do to stop it, if you have that information? Why don't you do something to make it happen? But when the governor comes in and comes out publicly with the thesis that the interest will rise by 2% and that, as you said, for a third of the interest and possibly, maybe a fifth of the loan rate, the governor will do nothing. And why is that? Because he is, by all accounts, not a person who can make a decision to prevent interest growth, which means he can't really do anything. That means he's not running monetary policy, he's not a governor, he's just the manager of a currency exchange and he's leading a disaster. And his stories about those foreign exchange reserves he's talking about, I don't know how much now, 16 billion euros or how much, so Mr. Vujcic, I'm going to tell you one thought, so you know that foreign currency reserves are just an external debt fragment. You know that these foreign reserves, that's the money banks had to put into account the mandatory reserves and what the foreign reserves in the National Bank were and that it wasn't actually the National Bank's money, it was the money owned by private banks. So the CNB actually doesn't have any foreign reserve, it's all foreign debt that's owned by foreign banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77334	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Governor with his associates, numerous colleagues and colleagues. How many of us in the assembly best show how many of us are very often discussing the CNB as much as it is in their interest, and therefore, whether I agree or disagree with my fellow Living Wall colleagues, all honors, there are also defending their views and their goals. So that's it. However, since we are discussing reports that are already under what they are offering, far, far out of date because, in the course of the 2018 budget, the Minister of Finance has already used fresher data. But given our debate, I ask myself one question, are we discussing within certain legal frameworks or are we going according to our own understanding? And look at the son of a bitch. Two, three and four. The CNB Act, there are enough tasks there, the goals of the CNB to base these specific tasks and objectives on asking the governor of the CNB if this has been done. If we disagree, then we suggest amendments to the CNB law. Because it's the function of this Parliament. So, is the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia stable? Elemental question. Is Kuna stable? Do what's most important in the law in the CNB, I think it's an art. Four, do we have price stability? So I'm looking for an answer to those questions, and then we can discuss some things. However, what I already said several times when I discussed these CNB reports because I also said in the reply to the governor, the intention of the legislator to put in law that the CNB is obliged to report on the financial situation twice a year to the Croatian Parliament, was in this direction in view of the specificities of the job, given a series of data, information that the CNB has, and the rest do not have, that the Croatian public through the highest legislative body simply informs about it. And what I would recommend to the governor for the future, with this information that has been placed in this report, which can be found in an expanded form on the CNB website, I think, Mr. Governor, that you should in your report think to Mr. Governor that you should look more at the individual forms that have occurred in your report. And now I'm going to name it. And if they did, I'm sure there'd be far fewer plantings of things that simply or simply don't stand or are not founded. Because if you were to give the chronology who financed Agrokor all of this in 2003 to the banks that did it. It's public information, it's not a secret piece of information that we understand each other. Because of the interest of the Croatian public, then they may, perhaps, get answers to many questions. Also today, you have responded in part to what happened in the financing of Agrokor, because simply when I mentioned the law at the beginning then it is known what your powers are. What could you do that you didn't do? Because no matter what you can or can't do. You, if you do not answer those questions, remain in the air one large questionnaire that no one can answer except you, whether they should or should not. Because you can't say that 600 million euros that came from SBER bank, from its business somewhere outside of Croatia, an ordinary man doesn't know how to, what, why, how. I think, regardless of the fact that the Croatian National Bank is obliged to offer this kind of response. But not for you to break something, but trust me with such an offer of response you will strengthen the Croatian National Bank as an institution, you will strengthen yourself as governor, you will gain citizens' trust. Because if you don't answer questions like this, simply everything that's covered by the veil of secrets creates certain problems and certain questions. So I say these phenomenal forms you should simply say as you said here today in your opening statement, that regardless of the crisis and the exposure of certain financial institutions to Agrokor that the Croatian banking system is stable and that no practically financial institution is significantly shaken. Believe me, that sentence of yours has become one positive signal to all those who talk, it's like this and it's like that. Because look, it's one thing to file dry reports, and one thing to talk about in the environment we're in. We simply, you as an institution simply can't get away from some things no matter how much you claim you can or can't, you just can't. You saw here today how many questions remain in the air. These questions cannot be answered by the government, cannot be answered by the Prime Minister or by the finance minister, it is not in his jurisdiction. The next thing is to amend the Law on the Croatian National Bank. I think it's something simple that has to happen because of the good Croatian National Bank. And I think that primarily for you as governor would be in the interest of your associates and your review to enter the Croatian National Bank and to make the final report they can make. But these changes must go in line with what Croatia signed when entering the EU, which is that all amendments to the Central Bank Act must be made to the Central Bank in Brussels. It's just a fact and we can't get away from it. And you must say it here as governor, because it has far more power than when I say it as a representative of the ruling party. But apparently some changes have to happen. So, the latest amendment to the CNB Act was 2013. You will, you will not since 2013 and from the moment Croatia became a member of the EU many things have changed. Look at colleague Vujčić, governor of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. It is easy to talk today when practically overnight activities of Croatian banks are 10 billion kuna, when capital at very favourable interest rates you have as much as you want, when you can go out as an EU member and self-indebted. But only 12 or 13 years ago, there was no such situation, nor was there capital for entrepreneurs, nor was there capital for citizens, nor was there capital for the state. And what was very expensive. And at the same time, you were burdened with the growth of foreign debt, so that the Central Bank did not cause an explosion of external debt to introduce mandatory reserves that the banks paid for and 15%. But it can also not be said that monetary policy did not respond, because when the economic crisis began, the financial crisis in 2009 freed the Central Bank, in fact reduced the minimum reserves and thus freed 4 billion kunas that via the bank, through the HBOR tried to place to entrepreneurs. And you know what happened to your co-workers and colleagues. So, at a very low interest rate of 4%, unfortunately very few entrepreneurs were in a position to raise credit because they were creditworthy. And 80% of credit claims were that model A, B and C, go into HBOR's website and you'll see, 80% of entrepreneurs asked for credit exclusively for trade funds, for nothing else. For nothing else. That wasn't so long ago. That was eight, nine years ago. But even from the whole... The Croatian financial sector came out stable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did any of the banks go bankrupt? Did Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs lose their deposit? No, they're not. But all of these things need to be talked about today for reasons that are not all wonderful and wonderful, and we haven't had everything quite available to us today. But some people laugh very sweetly here. Whoever believes something should be changed in monetary policy, anything to suggest amending the law to the Croatian People's Bank. Mr. Lovrinović, it's me. I listened very politely while you were teaching, and you were teaching to be polite, so listen to me while I speak, and then grade me with a grade. [[Intruder Brkić: Please do not disturb your colleague.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77336	Thank you, fellow Shuker. I would ask you colleagues not to disturb each other in the debate and allow a hearing without distraction. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77337	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, these reports are not outdated, these reports are the same as they are now because they are based on the illegal business of banks. I don't deal with changes in the monetary system, I don't go that far, I deal with a legal problem called the illegal business of Croatian banks. It is illegal because of the inaction of the CNB which is prescribed to oversee and regulate the functioning of banks, so that is already prescribed, this should not be further prescribed. He knew Governor Vujčić and his colleagues used to say that they couldn't enter contractual relations and they couldn't enter individually, but if it was found that over a hundred, even 200,000 loans were agreed with an unfair and worthless contractual provision on how to change interest rates, then that's not an individual problem, then it's a systemic problem. And then it is the duty of the CNB to regulate that part of the problem as a people's bank through the Government of the Republic of Croatia by proposing a law that will be dealt with, which then enters the Parliament and votes here. The CNB didn't do it, however, she, I repeat, kept a notice on her wall saying the bank's administrative decision was a normal thing. How can a normal thing be something that is contrary to the Law of Mandatory Relations? The National Bank of Serbia, when it found that there was a problem in Serbia, in 2011, without courts, without any major processes, proposed a Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services and regulated a variable interest rate agreed in Serbia in an indeterminate manner, says: if the interest rate, the variable interest rate is determined so that it is indeterminate, then until it contracts the interest rate in a way that is determined, the bank must not apply an interest rate higher than the initially agreed interest rate. The National Bank of Serbia regulated it in 2011, and we cannot until today. The CNB is the supervision and regulation of Croatian banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77338	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77339	My colleague Alexic, if you've listened to my argument, I've said that the governor, with what he wrote here, must speak to this Parliament about individual forms. Because as long as you don't talk about it, whoever's directly hit with something or who's representing someone will talk about it, and that's why I said that you stayed here and that you're discussing it because you simply want to warn some things. I'm not going to get into it, I don't want to be a judge, actually, you are right or you're wrong. But correct on your part to talk about it. And that's why when I was saying, if you heard, I don't know if you were there when the governor spoke here and when these reports were last debated, then I was saying that we just have to talk about appearances, we can't be too small and just talk about statistical indicators, because if you don't talk about these phenomenal forms, we're going to make an elephant out of flies in an hour. And that's not good. If the forms appear in time, then problems can be solved. But I repeat, Croatia is a very short independent state, because you're just listening to debates about the introduction of the euro, someone talking about devaluation, what would happen at this point that the kuna devalues 10%? All those who have loans, the state, everyone else, what do you think the salaries would follow that devaluation? These younger ones don't know that, when traders changed their prices per day on shelves, before the ten-month stabilising programme in '93. years, then they'd see that no salary increase can track the devaluation. There would be chaos in Croatia. So let's discuss the subject without taking it out of the context of time and space, and then we'll understand each other better. Because only conversation and discussion leads to mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77340	I thank my colleague Shuker for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in. He's gone. Dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77341	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, in your presentation, you mentioned the need, the creation of a new CNB law, and listening to today's debate, and several times when the governor was here in the Assembly, the questions being asked whether this CNB law could give the authority of the CNB so as not to re-emerge in Croatia the Agrokor case, the franc case, and how, as legislators, we could intervene in a law that would therefore give even more power to the CNB when it comes to the business of a particular commercial bank. In fact, several times the governor has spoken, neither the CNB's authority can verify any individual credit of a single credit, i.e. financial institution in Croatia, or banks, but on the other hand, when that number of credits which are not checked is not within the reach of the ratios that we had in the case of Frank or Agrokor, where these credits are as they are, can the law intervene to limit and establish the work of the CNB without it being incurring with its independence, i.e. compliance with the laws defined at the level of the European Central Bank. And secondly, I agree with you completely when you claim that, for example, the Agrokor case, however financial impact it was, did not shake up the Croatian financial system on banks and on Croatian banks, which is still about the condition of the Croatian banking system, for which we certainly cannot deny the merits of the CNB. And second thing, I'm out of time, never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77342	I thank my colleague Bačić. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77343	Thank you very much. Look, my colleague Bačić, by amending the Foreign Exchange Act, I think that in 2002, let my colleagues from the CNB's I.D. if not, be allowed by Croatian companies and individuals to be in charge outside on the exact terms. Now the question arises, given that this provision of the law has led to several traumatic situations, one of the famous Raiffeisen savings banks, although there is nothing to understand, there is nothing if the laws are read because with these people from Raiffeisen savings, I have spoken much more to them and helped them to come up with some things than some who are drilling today, but perhaps, now, this case Agrokor, those 600 million and later those 400, 500 that have come, maybe we should sit together and think whether there is some kind of instrument that when these large amounts of money come out of Croatia is a huge amount of money for Croatia that maybe we find some kind of control instrument to do this because look, we founded the HANFA to control the non-bank financial sector. Now, the ones who are the most groaning about Agrokor today, they've been staring at the HANFA for three years, but they've changed the HAFA law, they've removed the head man of the HANFA, and they haven't responded to that flood by not entering at all what they are and what they are, but it's important to attack someone else, and it's important to attack this or that, and it needs to clearly tell what the CNB is, which is HANFA, which is ultimately the Ministry of Finance. But ultimately, we all have to find an instrument to protect the Croatian state whether someone likes it or not. But if 600m euros came to Croatia, we need to find a model to explore what, how and where because no matter what someone says there is no law, but maybe if it hadn't been for that time, that what I know, in Agrokor went out on the IPO, or something else, maybe this wouldn't have happened. But I'm saying it's all possible, and that's why I'm saying it would be a good idea to sit back sober, if, in line with everything that's been going on in the past, we're thinking about a new CNB law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77344	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77345	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shuker, you say the banking system is not shaken, so of course it is not shaken because Croatian citizens are shaken for the price for them to be stable, Croatian citizens had to suffer catastrophic damage. Croatian citizens were thrown on a beggar stick to keep the banks stable. You say no bank went bankrupt, yes, but what was the cost? Tens of thousands of Croatian crafts, companies, companies, OPGs ended up in bankruptcy so banks could be free of bankruptcy. You say that banks bathe in money, truth, bathe, but that's why Croatian citizens have nothing to eat, have nothing to pay for directing, have no basic existential needs. Why don't banks give you to the citizens now that you say they have increased liquidity? Why do they come here to the Parliament to us at a Live Wall club that's all craftsmen, OPGs who don't even want to reprogram credits, let alone give them some new ones. Even those receiving contracts for EU funds cannot get loans to finance that initial stake. You say 1993 prices changed on a daily basis. How many were employed in 1993, and what is it today? In 1993, how many banks are in Croatian ownership and what is it today? How many companies were owned by Croatia and how many today? How many banks were owned by Croatian banks in 1993 and how many today? How many companies were owned by Croatia and how many today? How many Croatians had in '93. And how old is he today? There's less for 700,000 people. That's the policy you supported, Mr. Shuker. That's your real statistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77346	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I once told you in one line that I respect everyone in the assembly. And I respect what it says and respect everyone's opinion. But you as a scientist should know no matter what sphere of life you want to compare the two things that happen at different times, you must methodologically level them. And then I told you by your terminology, methodology, 10 hours drive to Split equal to 3.5 hours drive. So what you're counting now, that sounds nice, but by looking at economically, you compare things you can't compare. Tell me, who owns the Zagreb Bank? Where's her seat? In Zagreb? Business, any other. Whose HT is it? Who does he pay taxes to and all other things? Comrade Bunjac, tell me, what are the Croats who can invest several hundred million euros at the moment? Which, however, I will first give them my support along with you to do so, but without new investments, let us not cry over young citizens who go out of Croatia. Not someone who builds a company in Croatia will put it on their backs and take it away. It is in our interest to have Croats working inside, to be well paid and to have their rights protected. It should be of interest to us as Parliamentarians. Banks as long as Croatia was in the '90s, in what state were they in and what was their financial power? So do you know that Croatia in '98, '99? She couldn't get a loan from anyone because she had an economic blockade. And I could list you with so many thousands and so much, but I told you, all these years, neither Croatian pensioners nor Croatian defenders nor Croatian soldiers nor government employees nor children waiting for children's allowance nor mothers waiting for maternity benefits were not without it. Someone took care of it, managed on the domestic and global financial markets how he could secure it, but I say, I respect every debate and yours. But if we go to discuss some data, let's methodologically put them on the same level and then we can talk, and if you convince me otherwise, any minute, I'll shake your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77348	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear Representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77349	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear CNB representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Our financial system is stable. That's a fact. And congratulations on that to the CNB. But our citizens are not stable, and among other things, they are not stable because banks in the Republic of Croatia are allowed to operate illegally. And they're allowed because the CNB doesn't do what her job is. The capital in the Republic of Croatia has. The capital in the Republic of Croatia is of Croatian origin. I've watched bank balances since I've followed the Frank case, before that I haven't, but all credits of Croatian citizens, consumers are covered by deposits as well, Croatian citizens. Therefore, full credit for Croatian citizens is covered by Croatian citizens' deposits. Only in the first two years, 2004 and 2005 and loans with the CHF currency clause were covered in francs because there were not many at that time. But later, when the demand for these loans began to grow, the banks no longer had Swiss and they had to convert Croatian citizens' deposits in euro and kunas into Swiss. And how did they do that? Forward contracts with a currency swap, probably. I don't have that data, but I can see it's off-balance sheet. You can tell exactly that everything is covered off the balance sheet. 70% of the debt is covered in off-balance sheet. Probably derivatives, how different? So it was allowed for banks to be here for El Dorado to make huge profits, so between 2010 and 2017 PBZ and ZABA shared a total of 10 billion kuna dividends, which means their profits are even higher. It's just dividends. Erste Bank 2.3 billion kuna dividends between 2010 and 2017 RBA 700 million kuna dividends during that same period. Hypo Addiko 750 million kuna dividends. Sberbank between 2013 and 2016 400 million kuna dividends. That totals more than 14 billion kuna dividends divided by the owners of banks and shareholders within 7 years. During that time, the citizens are rotting under the burden of debt slavery. Well, normally dividends can be shared when citizens are charged huge interest rates that are illegal, and I already said why they are illegal. They are illegal because they are agreed to be amended by a decision of the bank, and such a method of agreeing the interest rate is unfair and, therefore, no harm has been established by a court ruling on 13 June 2014. The history of CNB inaction is the following. It's all reflected in today. So I'm going back, but it's all going on today. Nothing's changed. That's why I have to say it. So, first of all, banks negotiate interest rates so that they change by decision of the bank, and the CNB on its website keeps a notice to consumers, on the consumer protection page, the bank's administrative decision on changing the interest rate is an interest rate arrangement and it's a normal thing. After that, however, the government finds that such a change in interest rates is not legal. What's going on? During 2013, changes to the Consumer Credit Act are being prepared and it is determined that banks that have not agreed on the parameters for the change in interest rate and the parameters have to define them, have to comply with consumers, and finally have to contract them, that is to say. What are the banks doing? Banks define, send notifications to consumers that they have defined and that's done. Therefore, they did not comply with consumers' interest rates and did not agree with consumers' interest rates. After banks did so, 13 June 2014. The High Court of Commerce finds that such a way of negotiating the interest rate is unfair and therefore irrelevant. Afterwards, the CNB should, as someone who oversees and regulates the work of banks, order the banks not to apply the increased interest rates of the contract in the future, in which they have defined that interest rates will be arbitraryly determined. As someone who oversees and regulates the work of banks, it would be the duty of the CNB. The CNB did not do so, despite the fact that in a court ruling other than that the contractual provision on how to change the interest rate by decision of the bank is unfair and therefore harmful, it writes something else. He's writing a declaration, this was a declaration, but it says something and it's executive. It says: banks that are convicted must not behave like that in the future. However, banks continue to behave that way. Only new loans contracted after 10 January 2013 do the banks not behave, in new contracts because the Consumer Credit Act defined that they must define and negotiate in new contracts from 10 January 2013, unequivocally negotiate the parameters and the fixed part of the interest rate. However, if they wanted to comply with old loans with existing loans with the law, banks had to comply with the parameters in those loans and then contract them afterwards. The banks didn't do it. At this point, we have a dozen rightful verdicts and over 300 first-degree rulings that are determined by banks that have to pay the debtors back the difference between the increased interest rate and the initial interest rate, plus a tight interest on each subscription. The problem of the CNB was to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to speak systematically. That's what I suggested last year by a law that wasn't passed here. But if the CNB helped in that, that it gave the green light to one such law, that it told the Government of the Republic of Croatia yes, the court ruled and so it is necessary to systematically solve the problem of 200,000 citizens because the problem of interest rates is not only a problem for CHF loans but also a problem relating to both euro and kuna loans and CHF loans. So in all loans regardless of the currency, banks have negotiated an interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision. And it's the system's duty to systematically solve a problem that's systematic because if there's a problem in 200,000 credits, then what's a systematic problem, it's not an individual problem. On the other hand, we have a problem with non-compliance with contract provisions, and it's really not the work of the CNB to order banks to respect the contract. It's the job of every single debtor because we have a legal situation. Imagine you may not know the gentlemen of the CNB that the banks were doing to legal persons, and I have such convictions. The banks agreed the interest rate with the legal persons in a proper manner, imagine, despite the fact that it was not prescribed, they are drawn up as if it were not prescribed to regulate the interest rate, so they did not regulate the interest rate as they should, but with legal persons they are. The banks regulated the interest rate with legal persons so that they agreed that it consisted of a fixed part of the interest rate and of the variable part of the interest rate. But what happened? If the variable parameter starts to fall, for example they agreed that the fixed margin was two plus the variable parameters of Euribor-Libor and it was happening that Euribor and Libor began to fall and the bank which would be the second but fixed part of the interest rate agreed as a fixed change that it was no longer as agreed but as 3,4,5. And I have a verdict from Split where a single bank has to pay back a million and a half kuna because it changed the fixed part voluntarily. You see in the business of Croatian banks almost nothing is legal, the entry fees in my opinion are not legal, the general conditions that change with the will of the bank and must be applied later are also not legal because only those general terms that are known at the time of the contract are valid. The interest rate is not legal, the exit fee is also legally found not to be legal. So legally in their business before 2013, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77350	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic, for this individual debate. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA fellow Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77351	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm going to take advantage of the occasion since I have the CNB representatives here to suggest how to solve the problem with banks that are still present, and that way the report for this year will be far better than the previous years' reports. What do you need to do? Since interest rates are still illegal in a large part of the credit due to the application of non-contracted parameters, it is necessary to define by law the methodology of how to obtain a fixed interest margin. I already proposed such a law last year, however, it was not accepted, among other things because it was retroactive, but I said during the debate that I was giving up this retroactivity, however the law was not accepted. So here I am now saying in advance I have prepared again two variants of this law that would resolve margins, the variations are such that one variant takes into account the market conditions applicable at the beginning of the contractual relationship, and the other variant is such that the interest margin is determined by the parliamentary majority's decision and both variants would apply from the date of entry into force of one such law. So what would this first variant look like? For example. If I agreed on a loan in 2007 at 6 months Euribor was, say, about 4 my interest rate was at that time 6.1% initial. If my interest rate was agreed as an initial 6.1%, if Euribor was at that time 4, that means my fixed interest margin must be 2.1. And so for each contract compared to the time when it was contracted, a fixed interest margin should be determined. And then it applies from the date of entry into force of that law, so it's not retroactive. The application of the conditions applicable at the time of the contract does not mean that the law is retroactive. This means that only the conditions applicable at the time are applied, which is also in accordance with the Roman law which says: “Quod initio vitisum est, non potest tract temptoris convalescere”, “If something is not valid at the beginning, it will not be improved over time”, other words, if we want to fix what is harmful, which is unfair and harmful, and the judgment found that this is how we must return to the beginning of the contractual relationship and at the beginning of the contractual relationship on the basis of those conditions which were at the beginning of the contractual relationship to regulate the problem. And since no one is to be retroactive, against it is the government, against it is the CNB, everyone is against it, I agree to that, and then I suggest that it applies from the date of entry into force of a concrete law. And from that moment when banks would act on it, they would still have to deal with the debtor, if the debtor didn't want to, it's his business. After negotiating such a parameter and a fixed margin, they thus enter into the legitimate business track and their business from that point on is no longer illegal. The other option would be if we were to octroly determine what that fixed interest margin would be. This was done by Hungarians, the Hungarians passed 3 laws at the end of 2014, relating to the Swiss, but also part of the law refers to the interest rate, as the interest rate in Hungary was as unfairly and innocuously agreed as in Croatia, was changed by the decision of the Bank. So the Hungarians said, first of all, they solved the Swiss, set a course by which Swiss-to-Forint loans would be conventioned, but in order for the loan to be paid further, an interest rate had to be set. So the Hungarians said, the interest rate will be regulated so that it is determined by a fixed margin 1 and most of the beetles, and for those who do not know, the representatives of the CNB know that, for those who do not know, the beetle is the reference interest rate in Hungary, which is valid for the forint. And so they solved it, and there are no problems. The banks have been rebelling from the beginning, a little bit and a euro commission, I think, but all that's been through is fine. So I invite the CNB to look at what I wrote, prepare, send them these copies, analyze it and support one or another variant. If Governor Vujcic supports one of these variants, he will get my vote in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77352	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic, for this final word. Final word on behalf of the applicant, Your Honor, Mr. Boris Vujčić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77353	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, thank you very much for this debate. I've been keeping notes, so I'm going to try to organize this final word of mine, about some things that have been launched, not necessarily around everyone, but I'm going to try to group some of the questions that have come up. But let's just say I leave now from the end, when we're done with the esteemed representative Alexic. You know that the door to your CNB is open, it's always been. You've been with us, you can come back, however, we'll look at the initiative, we'll support the initiative, if it's okay, if it's legal and about it, I think we know, that even before you asked me some things you got from both us and the analysis, we stay open, come to us and we'll look at that new initiative, which you say is not retroactive, which is very important, and then we'll talk about it. As for those things that were mentioned by CHF, interest rates, I've said it many times before, I'm probably the last man to have something to say about credit in Swiss. I warned this House that people are probably not aware of the risk they're taking, so I'm aware of a dozen at least cases so-called. ... and that is when banks are taken, they are in debt in currency, which is the interest rate at that point lower and then they give loans in their own country, in their domestic currency, at a higher interest rate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that interest rate is still lower than the market rate. This is how banks win market space and are financed at lower interest rates. This has in many cases ended for consumers, well, in many cases bad. So it can go in both this direction and that direction. Whoever took those loans, they all took them. I was very unpopular when I was against them. I was very unpopular back then and I would have been very happy, Mr. Alexic if you had supported me then or anyone else. If you had stopped then, if there had been so many votes against it, then maybe something would have happened. I said, and the former governor said here the same thing, that it could be prevented, by changing the Law on Mandatory Relations, in which it would be said, that it is possible to give housing loans only in swearing or in euro. Why the euro? Because it is being saved in Croatia in the euro, and because the CNB is essentially currently providing all those who have loans related to the euro from the exchange rate risk. How it does that, the leading policy of a stable course. And then you'd like to come up with some of these substances that you've respected, Mr. Representative Bunjac and many others have run here. First of all, I'd like to say that we're very glad that besides me, there's someone else who's really worried that I haven't gotten rich and that's you. So the two of us are worried about that. I'd also be happy if I got rich, and unfortunately, I didn't make it out of pay, I'm a tenant, I'm divorced, I have alimony, I have two loans, I know it might not fit the theory that I'm the president of large capital that they're paying for, I might have some kind of house or apartment, but unfortunately, I don't. But I'm glad you're worried about it, too. As far as the course is concerned, the course is something many have mentioned that a solid course policy should be abandoned, that a depreciation or devaluation policy should be conducted. Well, just what we're talking about, it should show you that it's bad for Croatian citizens. So you're saying on the one hand, Croatian citizens are over-indebted, on the other hand you're telling us to devalue the course. So when we devalue it, it will be even more in charge, so 10% devaluation in Croatia leads to debt growth by 50 billion kuna. So 50 billion kuna would increase their debt. So you have to decide whether you want to be less in charge, or whether you want the course to be depreciated. Both together, it's not just possible. That's economically impossible. It is also a concern that citizens, businesses, states, and on the other hand talk about not giving banks enough credit. And now the same question, do you want them to be even more in charge or less in charge? We can't do everything at once, or the debt decreases what's happening now, where our public debt fell from 86% to 80% of GDP, where external debt fell from 50 billion euros, to 41 billion euros, or from 115% of GDP to 80% of GDP, the population sector has reduced its debt, 7 years in a row, and the business sector has been developing. Now, what do we want? Should these trends continue or increase debt again? The fact is, at this point in the banking system, we've created a huge liquidity, 26.5 billion kuna is the surplus liquidity that banks hold at the interest rate of 0% in the CNB. They could, instead of keeping them 0% in the CNB, give someone at an interest rate of 4, 5, 6% and earn money. Why don't they do it? So that was a question that was also going through a lot of these discussions. They don't do it because whatever interest rate you have money at right now, you won't give money to someone you don't believe you'll get it back. It doesn't matter what that interest rate is, if you don't believe you'll get it back, you won't give it back. At this point, precisely because of what you said yourself, that a large part of the company is overindebted, there is no collateral, the banks are not ready to give because these companies are over-indebted and unable to take an additional debt on themselves. Our assessment in the CNB is that about a third of the companies in the Republic of Croatia are still over-indebted even after the deleveraging. About a third of the company is what we say, cash rich, has cash, has its own money, doesn't need debt. The banks are running around them and they'd like to give them a debt, but they don't need a debt because they have enough of their own cash, they won't take a loan. And then you're left with, basically, a third of the companies that are credit-worthy and now some of them need a loan, so don't need it, and that's the ones that get it. Until we increase, so the number of credit-supervised enterprises will not grow faster. That's what's happening. The credit burden on companies is slowly decreasing and our credit activity is growing now. So now credits to businesses are growing over 3%, 4%, this year it's going to go a little more, but that's not something you can expect to quickly come from this level to the 10% growth level of credit activity. We must, once the debt is accumulated, it must be relatively reduced to re-create the capacity of additional borrowing. Of course, that's where we come into the debate what can it do? Unfortunately, monetary policy has been mentioned here, so there has been talk of fertility, migration, non-payments, etc. These are not things that are solved by monetary policy. There are other policies that can be done. What is important to us and we repeat this all the time are precisely these structural reforms that will make the business climate in the Republic of Croatia better to attract foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia, which is not available, nor.../The speaker has spoken English./... The investment has not been seen for a long time, to encourage again the stopper of domestic investment. But what led to the recovery at this point, as I said, of the Croatian economy is primarily export growth. And export growth based on EU accession. So our entry into the EU into the integration of European countries and the large market made it possible for us to have 3 times as many companies in the Republic of Croatia today that export than we had in 1.1.2013. The CNB is confident and has made an analysis of costs and benefits, that and the next degree of integration of the Republic of Croatia, which is the entry into the Eurozone will also be good for the Republic of Croatia, such as EU accession. Otherwise, I wouldn't have been offered that. Otherwise we wouldn't be talking about it at all. We did make that commitment, but we wouldn't represent it if we didn't absolutely believe we were going to profit from it. And why we're going to profit, you've listed all the expenses, we talked about it on the board last week, you've made a nice list of all the expenses, but you haven't listed any of the benefits that I was talking about back then. The main benefit from entering the Eurozone is the removal of the exchange rate risk. So, solving this question is that we have people who have income in one currency, and they have obligations in another currency. 500 billion kuna, as you well remember, 511 billion kuna of debt in the Republic of Croatia is tied to the euro. That's why I'm saying, 10% devaluation of the euro raises the level of debt de facto by 50 billion kuna. And that's why we have to keep the course stable. We do not want to allow an appreciation, not to spoil the competitiveness of domestic companies. We cannot allow devaluation not to increase our debt because if debt increases, fewer people will be available for consumption, spending will fall, fewer companies will be available for investment, investment will fall, and the state will have a budget problem and will either have to raise taxes or reduce spending. One, the other, and the third, it's pro-recessional. So it reduces the GDP growth rate, reduces wages in the Republic of Croatia, reduces pensions in the Republic of Croatia. It's all worse than that, not better. And that's why we're running this policy, and that's why we're going to keep running that policy unless someone convinces us that it's possible that I haven't heard that it's possible. As for the questions that were asked to the CNB, let's say I brought them together on a matter of Agrokor. It's one thing the CNB was doing in the case of Agrokor. Well, she was just doing her job. You need to understand what the work of the CNB is. Which means telling the financial system regulator. First of all, it means we don't have any authority, no legal options, no assignments to check out the situation at some firm. The CNB doesn't go, it doesn't check the firm's condition. That's what their auditors do. What did you have in the case of Agrokor? You had a private company that was a Dutch company at the time, which was borrowed by private banks and private owners of their bonds, to which goods were supplied by private companies and from which private companies additionally funded. There's no state body here to watch what's going on. To whoever owns the capital, he must fight for his own interest. If I borrow some money I need to know who I'm lending money to, that's what banks do. Well, the CNB won't be checking out who she's going to borrow money from. My salary you said was big. My salary is 10 times lower than their salary, so what am I supposed to tell them to borrow money, that's their business. If they borrowed the money wrong, now they're gonna lose them, and that's gonna happen. When you borrow money wrong, they don't come back to you and you have to write it off and that's what the restructuring process is about. What's going to happen? Because the CNB limited the exposure of domestic banks to Agrokor, and we did it for five years continuously and fighting, believe me, it was a month-to-month trench fight, where we were attacked in principle. When I had a bank squeezed a little harder, it immediately launched an attack on the CNB. Among other things, here and in the media and so on. However, we succeeded without a criminal provision on action against financial stability, only in violation of the provisions, we managed to bring all banks into the practical frameworks. And that's how we saved them from falling apart. You said it was a lot, someone said... A lot of small banks in Croatia failed, and Mr. Lovrinović I think he said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, if we hadn't done this, there'd be a lot more of them now and there'd probably be a significant cost for fiscal, or taxpayers in Croatia. Croatia would have had a simple tax cost if we hadn't done it right. And everyone gives us credit, anyone who understands anything about bank surveillance for what we did in one way that we did it. It is primarily our job, primarily to keep the banking system stable, because if it is not stable, it costs a lot, so the bank's collapse is basically a very large tax cost. We experienced it in the '90s when we saw what it means to destroy domestic banks in terms of tax costs. Slovenians, our neighbours, with state-owned banks experienced this a few years ago when they both lost the New Ljubljana Bank and Nova Credit Bank Maribor and Abank, the 3 largest banks. Their public debt went up by what, over 30%, 35%. To our Irish colleagues, 60% of them almost increased public debt when their banks collapsed. It's the most expensive thing that can happen in the state, the collapse of banks. Now we have to be very careful about regulation and what we do with regulation. As soon as the central bank deals, except for the natural stability, the price is the stability of the banking system. We will support, support every regulation that goes after consumer protection. We ourselves have brought a series of regulations to protect consumers, let's say this whole process of selling bad claims happens in a framework that we already regulated in 2014 in a way that nothing can happen to the consumer that would lead to him in a worse position after the bank sells the claim than he did before. Effective interest rates, interest rates, interest rates. We've developed an application for mHNB to which you can now compare interest rates. In the spring we will add to this app all fees, someone mentioned here fees that the bank charges 150k for not knowing what, we will compare all fees that every consumer on his mobile phone can see who collects at least. But one thing is consumer protection, and another thing is that we need to be careful. With that regulation, I'm saying it because I'm in the Parliament again, maybe in a few years, so I'd like to keep track of it if I said it, maybe in a few years you'll say look at the offer of the loan is weak, the availability of the loan is... interest rates are too high. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That can happen among other things if we go too far with that regulation. One of the things the Parliament has done is reduce the ability to carry out the pay. Hello. This goes in terms of consumer protection. What was the consequence of that? We have a smaller availability, so a smaller number of people who are now also available credit. Now the question is to what extent do we want to push it, it has nothing to do with free, as we say, no free lunch in the economy. Anything you squeeze somewhere else can appear to you as a problem. So my message to protect, but let's be careful, that we don't have the consequences that are unwanted, or that we might say that in the end we have made a situation for the consumers themselves who are worse than it was before. As for what, loans of domestic banks to Agrokor, what we published is the total amount of loans given by domestic banks to Agrokor, 10 billion kuna, we cannot give individually because it's a banking secret. I, when it was that investigative committee on Agrokor, told me publicly to take off my obligation, like the Parliament, to keep a bank secret, that no one can sue me, and I'll say it, I have no problem saying it, but I can't break the law that exists. And I'm ready to do that, if I get stripped of keeping banking secrets at all times to do it, I said I'm willing to show you the documents that we've been doing with a single bank as we've forced them into order in relation to the exposure to Agrokor. As for the debate which, as you say, is outdated because we are talking about the '16th and the first half of 2017, I agree with that. When I became governor, the first time I came to Parliament in 2012, I was talking about the monetary policy that the CNB is running at that point. However, I was told by the Parliament, MPs, to stick to the letter of the law and to have to go back and talk about what was before. I don't have any problem talking today and I'm doing it in the end line publicly because the public keeps asking you about the monetary policy that the CNB is running today and I think it's most interesting to actually talk not about what happened today, not about this policy that's being run by the CNB today, but about what's going to happen to us in the next 2, 3 years. That's what I'm talking about, for the next two, three years, it's not realistic to expect these kind of financial conditions to remain. The CNB will have to adapt to that again because the economy is like the laws of physics, you can't have sheep and money. No free lunch. We will maintain the stability of the banking system, to keep the debt to domestic citizens, businesses and the state from growing, to have to react. The situation may not be easy. It would be more interesting to talk about this than to talk about these things from the past and me alone because I've been talking about it all the time and we're talking about it in the CNB and in the end line and when I go around in conferences, here we are now talking about a meeting of small, open economies right now, the governor was exactly what we can expect in the next two years and how he... and monetary policy by the US Central Bank and tomorrow the European Central Bank affects our economies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think I'm going to bother you too much, if there's any more questions, I'll gladly answer it, what I'd like to say is, there's a few incorrect data, one I think that keeps repeating, I'd just like to say, most people in Croatia and we've just studied the last survey, and now we're going to conduct continuous polls, most people in Croatia are for the introduction of the euro, 56% is for, 35% is against right now and 9% is undecided. What's interesting is when you look at older people for, how you go towards younger categories there's more of those that are against being students mostly for, they're without college education versus or even younger than that. It shows us that we have to do a lot of work and explain to the younger ones. The older ones remember inflation, the older ones remember the devaluations, the older ones remember how we came into the problems we came into in the early '90s, the policy of continuous devaluations, when there was no currency clause, when the central bank ran a policy of selective lending and printing money that it was good, and now Yugoslavia might not have failed. But it wasn't right. And today to offer such policies instead of what the CNB is doing, it certainly is not good for Croatia, it is certainly not good for Croatian citizens or for Croatian companies or for the Croatian state. We are if we decide to enter the Euro Zone, what we should have in mind, as was the EU's entry, we are the first step into the EU, I would say entering the Euro Zone, making it stand alone, if we hadn't left out, we could never make those decisions, and now that we're making them, I'm making them because it's in our interest. And that is the only reason why we will bring them or not because it will be in the interest of Croatian citizens, Croatian businesses and Croatian states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77354	Thanks to Governor Vujčić, we have several replicas, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77355	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Governor Vujčić, how could I have supported you when you were talking about CHF when I had no idea about it ever since? How could I have supported you? Well, the banks were the ones who had to warn us about the risks, and they didn't. The only thing they wrote in the contracts was that the course could rise and fall. Well, I knew that. She didn't have to write that to me at all. Everyone knows that. But the bank did not warn me of the difference between the euro and CHF, that the CNB protects the exchange rate against the euro rate within the limits possible while other currencies are not so, did not warn me that it escapes capital in CHF when the crisis is, did not warn me that CHF has already grown in this way over the past 30 years. So the bank didn't warn me about it, and you as the CNB were supposed to give the banks a warrant that they had to warn, as the Austrian National Bank did. You say, credit. Governor, you say credit, there was no credit, I was looking at the balance sheet, credits are in the balance sheet, they're not off the balance sheet, there's no credit in the balance sheet, there's no credit, all the deposits of Croatian citizens, so there's no credit. Out-of-balance sheet business was done. It's not lending, we know what it is. It's that unsuspecting exchange of thousands of such contracts is done and constantly exchanges the euro for CHF, the euro for CHF accounting, and the difference of exchange rates goes to the bank's mother, rather than to whom other than the bank's mother. And now, in the end, I'd like to ask you two questions if you know how to answer. The first question, which is the ultimate result of the conversion, exactly what is the total cost of conversion because what was on the ministry's pages, it was assumed, was not a total result. And the second question is, did the banks take advantage of the tax relief on conversion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77356	I thank my colleague Alexic. Answer, Governor Vujcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77357	So, as far as the first one is concerned, I totally agree with you, they should have warned you. And I know cases, and then people told me that they told some at the bank that they were taking exchange rates, I was saying that all the time, take a course risk, the CNB can't defend the exchange rate and the Swiss. I made that very clear. And that's what the lenders were supposed to say, if they didn't, they did it wrong. And that's something that can be used by the Croatian state now. As far as this second one is concerned, the Ministry of Finance has received information and published it, and it's the only official data on conversion and the cost of conversion for now. If you're asking if they are, it means the cost of conversion that was obtained through that questionnaire on banks, if you're asking how real economic costs are, now that's already something else I can't give an answer to, and you know why I can't give, it wouldn't be good to give it. The more tax reliefs the banks had, given that they had profit or loss, they used the tax shield. Tax shields use when they can use it. Some can use it, some can't. So, depending on the bank to the bank, she used to use it second, she didn't, but if you want, we can give you that information, and you can get it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77358	Thank you for your response to the governor. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77359	Thank you very much. The Honorable Governor, here you said, one very interesting thing, I wouldn't want to move forward, so I'm going to repeat it again, namely, you said that your salary is 10 times lower than the pay of the director of commercial banks and I think it's very valuable information to the public, given that they corner. Unfortunately, they don't know anything about it. You're asking, what would happen, then, if there was a devaluation of the kuna. So take the Czech example, what happened in 2013 when the Czech crown devalued 10%. Did this harm the Czech economy or did it help the Czech economy? Of course it would be a problem to devalue the kuna without having a currency clause. But if there was no currency clause, then it would certainly come to this, that people would pay less credit rates, because through devaluation they would increase more or less wages, but credit rates would remain the same. Well, you've had cases, I believe you're old enough, remember the '80s. Sir, where people simply, after a while, though, were then hyperinflation, were free of credit. And over time it would mean that credit rates would decrease, and people could pay off those loans because they were getting smaller, and on the other hand it would encourage them to take credits, because they wouldn't be afraid that someone would depose them, that someone would do them, that someone would block them, etc. The currency clause is a problem, not a devaluation. But, of course, you're holding the currency clause right now. With the leverage of your monetary policy, and that's where we're very different. The public will judge who is right, but this situation we now have in Croatia is certainly not good. I trust you well, but for 98% of Croatian citizens, it is not good at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77360	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Governor Vujcic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77361	Thank you for asking, so as far as the Czech Republic is concerned, that's the first question you've asked, my good friend was the governor of the Czech Republic when they made that de facto restriction further, putting the floor on the move of the Czech crown 10%, reducing the course and then not allowing the appreciation, but if you compare the course of the crown in 2013 and today it's the same. So what they did, they had a strong pressure on the crown's appreciation. Why, because the Czech state has a rating. And it's considered in international finances as one of the countries that we call safe haven, certainly safe havens for deposits from other countries. As the crisis in the euro zone went to its peak, they received a large inflow of capital, which is a very huge pressure on the strengthening of the crown. And they saw first strongly before they could stop it. But their real course didn't depreciate. So they just did it because they didn't have a choice anymore. They bought, bought, bought euros, increased their balance, as we are now doing, because we have a large inflow of capital. We bought over a billion euros in the last year from banks, but it wasn't enough to prevent the appreciation. And that was the only reason they did what. As for the currency clause, the currency clause, as you know, does not determine the CNB, but is legally established and can be changed by the Assembly, however, should be very careful. I say in Yugoslavia we didn't have currency clauses, people were saving in German stamps, loans were in dinars, it didn't end well. There's a huge exchange rate risk opening up, and in the end, when your bank collapses, who covered that cost? Well, it's the state again, because there's no one else. That's the problem, you don't have, it's your circle square, it can't, there's no free lunch. It would be great if it worked out like that. The abolished currency clause, people get, they keep money in the euro, they get loans in kunas, and no one's at risk. No, the risk is always... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77362	I thank the esteemed governor for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77363	Thank you very much. Mr. Governor, I'm glad you've stepped away from the stereotype in your final word. And it's good that in the future, when you submit the report, you say briefly what happened and you say what was expected and what was in store for us and then we discuss it. And I'm extremely sorry that there aren't many more MPs in the assembly today. Because in this final word, it's answered a lot of questions, a lot of questions, which I don't want to offend, people don't understand, then they say things. And then they say things. And then it happens that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia don't do their jobs. One more thing you said at the end of your presentation, but I think we'll have to sort of agree to make some kind of publication of all the financial traumas in this very short Croatian history, so when someone talks about foreign banks, when they talk about this, when they talk about it, about the collapse of banks, let's say how much we've paid in our past. And how many different financial exhibitions we are guilty of, we are not, are now in the total public debt of the RH of the 200 billion along with the shipbuilding and the railways and other things, because we simply have to do it once and for all, to finally throw it away as some kind of trauma from the past and political bickering and deal with concrete things. And so, I say again, when we passed the law, you remember this well, you remember, this provision was to bear this exclusively because, given the expertise, the CNB informs the Croatian Parliament and the wider Croatian public about the things that are going to happen and that is why it was going to happen that this report is not adopted but is being taken into account. And I'm saying, this is a good final word for you, after all, just ten seconds please, it's a good thing you said this about Agrokor. I deliberately said that 600 million came to provoke you to say that this loan was given to a Dutch company, not to a company in Croatia, which is the other number. The other thing about... still having all the connections how, where and who founded the companies... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77364	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Shucker for his rep. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas. I'm closing the debate. I thank once again the governor of the CNB to Mr. Boris Vujčić and his associates, Vice Governors Damir Odak and Bojan Fras. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues with this have exhausted all the agenda points for today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. with a vote on the points discussed. Have a nice rest of the day. Session interrupted at 18.24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77365	Half-yearly information on the financial situation rate of price stability and implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2016, the applicant is CNB, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: it takes note of the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy for the first half of 2016. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 93 for, 6 abstentions and 13 against, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council. Come in, colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77366	Mr. President-in-Office, I don't understand how we can vote on something that's being taken into consideration. You should have arranged it for the Rules of Procedure because it's illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77367	You have had the opportunity to propose a proposal with the new Rules of Procedure, whether or not to vote on something being taken into consideration, you have not suggested, and if you had suggested you would probably have rejected it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-22-0.u77368	It was too crowded, you couldn't hear us.
