ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119845	Now let's go to the next draft law, that's: - Final proposal of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 399 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 3. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia This Regulation shall enter into force on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law have been implemented by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119846	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Assembly MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of Parliament's MPs. The current Law on cattle farming from afar 1997, with its subsequent amendments and additions, is mostly based on the provisions of the EU's end-80 EU technical legal acts. In the early '90s. Mr. last century. During the years of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation, in the midst of differentiation and diversification of the rules governing certain areas of agriculture, the implementation of certain chapters is also covered by that law, is prescribed by legally binding EU acts, adopted through other national legislative acts in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, thus making the Law on cattle farming insufficient, effective and applicable. The European Parliament and the Council have, with a view to the need to amend, harmonise, level playing field, and to create a uniform and summary legal framework in the area of the zoo technique, have joined the creation of a common legal act and adopted Regulations 1012 and 2016 on zoo technical and genealogical conditions for the breeding of valid animals, pure breeds, farmed hybrid pigs and their replacements and trade therein, as well as for their entry into the Union, and in amending Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006. 60, 52, 2014 and the Council Directive of '89. Number 68, or 425 from the '90s. Mr. I place the amount of power to certain acts in the area of animal breeding, through the so-called This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, specificities on the implementation of breeding, reproduction of domestic animals, the preservation of genetic diversity, and the assessment of the breeding value of hooves, through the organisation of competition, are being further cut. In relation to the text of the law in real reading, the question of obtaining the status of originality, breeds of domestic animals and the recognition of a new breed of domestic animals is arranged in a way that clearly and unequivocally prescribed procedures are followed by the approval of the breeding programme, which aims to restore the breed or create a new one. It is also more detailed in order to extend the geographical area of implementation of the breeding programme due to the possibility of extending individual breeding programmes from another Member State to the Republic of Croatia. The final proposal puts emphasis on breeders holding domestic animals exclusively for breeding purposes, with the aim of creating breeding animals, better, production products. Breeders are free to join as an interested group in breeding societies, breeding organisations, design, create their own breeding programmes and, after approval by the Ministry of Agriculture, implement them on domestic animals they own. The main objective of the implementation and breeding programme, in full terms, becomes the creation and cultivation of valid animals. Furthermore, the basic concept of the Animal Breeding Regulation and the final proposal of the law enables the isolation of breeding society and breeding organisations in the implementation of breeding programmes and stresses the need to strengthen their administrative and institutional capacities in line with EU guidelines, to support livestock farming, in order to fully meet those associations' conditions for the management of the breeding programme, and in relation to other breed societies and breeding organisations in the EU area, to be competitive. The law regulates the conditions and means of recognition of the breed society and the breeding organisation, which will be implemented according to the new model through separate procedures. In doing so, there is no possibility that the Ministry of Agriculture, empowers several breed societies or breeding organisations to implement one or more breeding programmes, on the same breed of domestic animals, and thus... a number of associations, lower and higher levels, which ultimately aims to bring together and round up breeders and to strengthen all forms of capacity of breed societies and breeding organisations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law protects the institution of ownership rights, private ownership, and in particular underlines the right and need to enroll breeders in a breeding society or breeding organisation. A domestic animal, intended for breeding, should be included in one of the breeding books, run by an authorised breed society or a breeding organization. The imperative of the entry of animals in a breeding book, and its inclusion in the implementation of the breeding programme, and the acquisition of the conditions for receiving a zoo technical certificate for the animals concerned, there are important elements in keeping and rearing animals. In accordance with the EU's positive environmental rules, cultivation of biodiversity and genetic variability enables animal genetic resources to obtain the status of a gene bank in the framework of conservation of animal genetic resources by growing representative collections of cultivation... and thus extends their activities and actively participates in the exchange and use of live animals and their oscillating material with the possibility of obtaining financial benefit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the field of reproduction of domestic animals intended for breeding, the obligations of legal and natural persons of non-financial character relating to training and keeping records with a view to monitoring and monitoring the use of oscillating material have been introduced and for the purpose of controlling the market for ossuary material, improving the quality of breeding and more effective implementation of the breeding programme. The final proposal of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals in relation to the text in the first reading was also amended in the section relating to the Croatian Agricultural Agency, which is abolished in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reduced number of agencies, institutions, funds, companies, institutes, foundations and other legal persons with public authority since 02 August 2018. The Croatian Agricultural Agency has ceased its work since 1 January 2019 and its activities have been taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Centre for Agriculture and Food. The provisions were also amended alongside the bee pasha cadastre to be led by the Ministry of Agriculture, not the Croatian beekeeper's Union, as outlined in the text of the draft bill. The Ministry of Agriculture, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Agriculture and the Veterinary Law, is responsible for the management of the Unique Register of Domestic Animals, and bees and bees must be registered in this register, so-called I'm here. I'm here. Thank you for your attention. Here reminds me also of the Vice-President that we accept, in the opening statement, the amendments expressed by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119847	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119848	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, the name of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, the only thing that is a good title, and as far as domestic animals are concerned, as regards cattlemen, people dealing with cattle, not one measure here, except the rules on what they have to do, not one positive measure I do not see here, which is a measure in the form of either a fund or some kind of help to survive swine fever, that pork is the greatest success of Sinj, that we simply do not have in Croatia the production of pigs, you did not impose anything but obligations on cattlemen, that they have even more paperwork, registration, obligation. You simply do not realize that people need, cattlemen, to provide sources of funding, to the survival of their cattle. To be competitive. And this is just one piece of paper that's a very good PR that only imposes obligations on cattlemen, not to keep domestic animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119849	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119850	Thank you. Thanks for asking. Dear Representative Bulj, this law adopts a framework for breeding programmes, for the keeping of domestic animals, the previous law we discussed, the final proposal for a law on agriculture defines both the programmes and measures of agricultural policy, including I. and II. The pillar of the common agricultural policy, including national support measures, with particular emphasis on livestock farming, explained well to you by Minister Tolusic, in which part of the ministry has so far been developing measures financed from the European Rural Development Fund, i.e. through the national envelope and through the 1st pillar of the common agricultural policy, but also measures, criteria that are adapted through other laws as something that favours and treats cattle animals in the context of, therefore, our programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119851	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119852	I thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In the opening part, you stressed that it is essentially in the focus of this law that domestic animal breeders, that the conditions and methods of recognition of the breeding society and the breeding organisation that will be implemented in separate procedures under this new model in law are more clearly regulated. So, the legislator has created preconditions for the independent work of these breeding associations and their market performance, but what I'm interested in is how can the state, or your ministry, support the work of these associations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119853	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119854	I thank the esteemed representative Mikulić. So far, over the past 10 years, breeding associations, or farming organisations and higher and lower levels, means that we are talking about alliances or associations that unite producers in livestock, through our budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, we have provided at that 10-year level a total of 6.8 million kuna, meaning at an annual level somewhere between 650-700 thousand kunas. This year, the amount has been at that level, and since next year, the Ministry of Agriculture has provided a far higher amount at 2 million kuna levels to increase competitiveness, the capacity of a livestock breeding organisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119855	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, we are discussing animal breeding today. The law stipulates that artificial seduction training is carried out by the Centre for artificial excreation, i.e. educational institutions. In recent years, we have had problems with people going to Slovenia, so it was not recognised in Croatia. What's changed? And further, I'm interested in what the state is doing about the impaired production and breeding potential, especially for cattle production, which we know we have had hard skin, so the potential has been compromised. Furthermore, I am talking about the dairy sector. Furthermore, goatmeat, poultry and beekeeping, on the one hand and pigmeat as a sector separately which is in the collapse and fertilized sows at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119857	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119858	I thank the esteemed representative Krizanic for asking. So, we've had problems training breeders so far. They had to go abroad to ensure, therefore, a certain skill for this kind of work, and here it is possible by law that our Translation Centre or the Translation Centre can do, meaning, training or educational institution and also to recognise this acquired education at the level of abroad. In the second part of your question, yes, as far as damaged production... in bovine animals due to lumpy skin, i.e. due to the aflotoxins mentioned today and because of the Russian embargo, the State has provided, respectively, the Ministry of Agriculture 195 million kuna for [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] procurement of female calves within the deadline [[Intruder: Thank you]] 3 years [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119859	Thank you. Now, you see, yesterday, you shot down a colleague of Thundero on me when I was on the phone, and I phoned to make a deal because there was an emergency session requested within 24 hours, and I had to organize it. You see, you're making a phone call now and you think it's okay, and it wasn't right when I made the phone call. I just want to tell you that the criteria can't be different. If it's not right what I phoned, no matter what I did because I had to do it within 24 hours, well, then it's absolutely wrong for you to make a phone call during the session, right? Here you go, which is where the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119860	You've hurt your ankle. 33. because you're giving me a lecture here, I had a call and I immediately broke up, I said I was in session and I had a replica, and we were warning you for five minutes, you were taking a session and talking on the phone. And don't compare it, it calls, it's important to me, I said I can't go to the Assembly right now, and I broke up right now. And I don't know why you're calling me here right now when I didn't even talk on my cell phone, but I hung up right now. You're taking advantage of the situation now to justify your completely inappropriate behavior yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119861	Yeah, you see, uh, of course it doesn't suit you and obviously your criteria are not the same. You're allowing yourself something that you think I'm... Had, and yet, it wasn't like that because there was so much screaming that, behold, a colleague of Mader couldn't speak at all, I begged him, however, to let him speak, but he wasn't. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's just let it go, I just wanted to figure it out. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119862	Dear Vice President, I don't understand you, I must... You have double criteria. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Secretary of State, I hope that this Law will bring about a solution to the great problem that applies primarily to horses that stick to free pasture, and later on, we have witnessed in several agricultural shows talking about the poor management of their owners, to this day we haven't solved this problem and today we have these damages that are happening, here in our Sisak Moslavina region, but they happen in other parts of the Republic of Croatia where such evil of the use of attitude seems to be. Unfortunately, no one can put an end to these people who keep cattle out of stock all winter, suffer cattle and do harm to other farmers and other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119863	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119864	I thank you for your question, Mr. Parliamentary Representative Lenart, this law defines the breeding of domestic animals. The issue of jurisdiction, which you mentioned, is part of the legislative framework, the Veterinary Act or the Animal Protection Act that we have amended in this direction, in order to address this problem, means, keeping animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119865	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119866	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, look, I'm talking, not talking on my cell phone, like you did yesterday. So, dear Secretary of State, I have a question, the cattlemen still don't have enough land, you've given God's incentives to the calf system, and what about the milkmen? So that's one question. And we have this land problem that people invested in building new stables, and the municipalities took away their land and that's the key problem of our cattlemen. The land and this incentive problem that I highlighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119867	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119868	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of the Grmoy for asking. Here, I am already in response to Mr Križanić, I will respond and I will repeat the part in which it has been priorityd towards restoring the production, damaged production potential for the dairy sector, or livestock sector, 195 million kuna in 3 years under two measures is reserved through the National Budget. I won't mention it this way, but I also remind you of rural development measures, measures 4.1 and 4.2 in which dairy and processing industries related to the primary sector in the production of milk can count on certain means. As for the Law on Agricultural Land, if there are cases, means, by the units of local self-government to break the law, that is to say, priority, means farmers are farmers who do not have enough surface area in relation to the number of cattle throats based on the new Land Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119869	Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists will speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119870	Thank you, Vice President. So, as for the very Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, we have these complaints on a series, so articles of this Law. What is particularly, for us, problematicly, that this Law adopts a series of additional provisions which are contradictory to the Regulation, contradictory within the proposal of the Law, unclear, undefined restrictive and discriminatory for entities dealing with it means the breeding or production of animals. For example. In the proposal for a law, new terms and clarifications are first added in Article 3(1). Despite the need for the regulation to unify terminology and simplifying the rules so far, did the legislator forget to define some concept in Article 2 of the Regulation? In order to point out the illogical nature of the concepts, reference should be made to Article 21(1) of the Law, which reads: ‘A beekeeper is a natural or legal person who is a breeder and/or a bee.’. It is unclear what this definition serves when the regulation in Article 2(1), paragraph 7, defines the body concerned. If that definition is not good enough, why does the bill not define cattlemen, pigs, sheepmen, goats, hensmen and not just beekeepers? To be even more contradictory of the bill, the same rule wants to impose the same rules on a person who only holds bees, so he has no intention of neither rearing nor enrolling his animals as farmed in the parent book. The proposal for a law is also largely unclear and contradictory as regards the distinction of concepts: breeding animals, purebred breeding animals or breeding hybrid pigs, Article 2(1) point 3. Regulations. And farmed animals of pure breed, animals registered or registered and eligible for entry in the main part of the breeding book, Article 2(1), point 3. Regulations. So the concept of a breeding animal is broader than the concept of a breeding animal pure breed. Therefore, there may be a breeding pure, breedingly valid animal without enrolment in the parent books. Instead of these terms, or in addition to these terms, the proposal for a law uses the concepts: domestic animal breeding, targeted selection of individuals for plan-making, for the purpose of creating a breeding offspring, Article 3(1), point (1), of the proposal for a law. And the breeder, the person who selects the units of domestic animals intended for breeding with the aim of creating a breeding valid offspring who participates in the implementation of the approved breeding programme, Article 3(1), point 5 of the Law. Such a termology shall erase the difference between the entities wishing to enter animals as breeding rolled into the parent book and those who do not want it to be discriminated against and restricted by those persons who have no intention of enrolling their animals as breeding valid in the parent book. The result of the chasing of these terms leads to the following contradiction between the Regulation and the draft law. The Regulation states in Article 4(1): ‘The Association of breeders, breeding societies or public bodies may, as regards purebred breeding animals, apply to competent authorities for the recognition of a breed society.’ The proposal for a law in Article 5(1) states: ‘A legal person who deals with the breeding of domestic animals with the purpose of the creation of farmed domestic animals shall submit a request to the Ministry for recognition of a breed society or a breeding organisation.’. Therefore, there is a contradiction between the concepts they can and bear where the term "can" in the regulation is an option while the term "subsist" in the bill is actually binding. That the obligation arises from Part 5. Infringements of the bill. A fine shall be fined if it deals with the breeding of domestic animals with the intention of creating farmed domestic animals without a previous solution to the ministry, Articles 5(1) and 6(6) of this Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, these contradictions are reflected in Article 19 of the Law, which reads as regards the breeding of grey bees, that is, Article 19, the requirement to sell only queens of breeders who are registered in the register of queens is inconclusive and contrary to EU law. This would mean that every EU or non-EU queen producer must be registered in the matrix breeder register. In order to introduce another administrative obligation in the form of a registries register where all activities and all domestic animals are already covered by some form of records, e.g. Company, OPG, craft, unique register of domestic animals. In this context, it is reiterated that Article 1(2) of the Regulation and paragraph 49 of the Regulation are already cited. So the bill rules out exactly the opposite of that regulation. The provisions of the bill prevent access to trade, i.e. the use of bee queens to anyone who is not in the register of queen growers, whether from the Republic of Croatia or from an EU Member State or from a third country. Such a legal solution shall prohibit, restrict or interfere with the use of both breeding animals and their replacement products which are registered as breeding animals in a breeding book or register and those not intended for entry or registration as breeding animals in a breeding book or register. This restriction is further enhanced in paragraph 3 where it is prescribed that the registry of queen growers is run by a recognised breeding society. So the second question is why the breeder's register is run by a recognised breeding society. The Regulation lays down, inter alia, rules for the recognition of breed societies and breeding organisations and for the approval of their breeding programmes, without limiting the number of such associations or organisations. That the recognition of new breed societies should not be refused speaks paragraph 21 of the introduction of the Regulation. On the other hand, the Croatian legislator decides that there is only one recognised breeding association, which will be given the authority to run the breeding register of queens. So he gets the authority to run a register of breeders that represent competition on the market. In addition, this association shall be authorised to run a register means a breeder using purebred breeding animals or their substitutes, their replacement products and when producing animals which are not intended for entry or registration as breeding animals in a breeding book or breeding register. Thus, such a legal solution leads to discrimination, restrictions on entrepreneurial freedom and inequality. Such a legal solution also means Article 21(2), (3) and (4) shall be granted the power to the Croatian beekeeper's Union, to the association of citizens, to determine the pasture order, hence the means, conditions of use and assignment for the use of bee pasture, the number and accommodation of hives, the timing of honey, the area of pasture and the proportion of honey plants in the total plant composition in the area of pasture and the predictability of bee pasture. After the Croatian beekeeping union determines the pasture order, it determines the availability of the bee to beekeepers. Ways, ways and conditions of use and assignment to use certain things the number of accommodations of mobile items, hives on a property is exclusively the authority of the owner of the property and plant owners, regardless of whether the property is the property of the land or the land. Thus, such a legal solution also violates entrepreneurial freedom, namely one association with the citizens of the Croatian beekeepers' Union, is given to establish the way, conditions of use and the assignment of bee's pasture, thus putting that association and its members in a monopoly position on the market and is therefore Article 21(2), (3) and (4) contrary to the provision of Article 49(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I remind you, the state provides all entrepreneurs with the same legal position on the market. And this bill is not in force. As regards the other provisions, it may be further mentioned that Article 21(5) and (7) is also contrary to provision 48(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which reads, reads. The right of ownership is guaranteed. Because it restricts the owner to place his own thing in a way that he wants on his real estate or to allow someone else's thing a hive on his property. It limits the owner in the way he manages and exploits his plants, so the bees are pasture. So it's obvious here that the law is contradictory, that it violates both market freedoms and the right to private property, so in that sense it cannot be supported as such. There is still a series of provisions that we could warn about, for example. provisions concerning the meaning of the Commission itself to consider a request for recognition of a breed society or a breeding organisation and to submit an opinion to the ministry on the request. In order to conclude that, on request, the application referred to in Article 4(1) of the Regulation shall be considered, unless uncertainty is criticised due to unequal terminology. Therefore, Article 5(4) further lists the composition of the commission as representatives of the ministry, legal persons with public authority from scientific institutions. This provision is explicitly undefined and non-transparent, it is undefined which number is the number of members of the commission, which is the number of representatives of the ministry, the number of representatives of legal persons with public authority, and how many are from scientific institutions, which are legal persons with public authority, who proposes, who chooses, by which criteria, to which period of the members of the commission. Article 26 paragraph 9 of the Law reads. Therefore, inspection of the implementation of this law and the rules adopted on the basis of its implementation shall be carried out by a agricultural inspection. It is necessary to examine which expertise is needed to control the implementation of the rules laid down in the Regulation where the main issue of breeding is pure breed breeding animals. Is there an agricultural inspector with a college in the field of agrinomia of any knowledge of animal breeding that would exceed the knowledge of an average person, let alone special skills in the veterinary field. In addition to the fact that such a person does not have specific expertise on animal breeding, he does not have the right to properly apply the rules to which implementation should be controlled. So, a number of contradictions, we believe, should therefore access the making of a whole bill over and over again, starting from the fact that the regulation is fully applicable and that it is only necessary to ensure application without any major corrections. Here, so much for me, we, of course, cannot support such a law as the Most Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119871	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Križanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119872	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about a proposal for a Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals. This bill is a follower of the Law on cattle farming, whose guidelines and provisions date back to the 1980s. The law has been amended and amended in the meantime, but this new law should give a summary of the uniting act and the implementation of the EU Directive and the regulations that we have adopted by joining the EU. The production of genetic material and the way domestic animals are reproduced is regulated. Furthermore, the implementation of artificial sensations, keeping records and registers on the production and transport of seeds and embryos, catastra of bees, breeding of poultry, pigs and horses, and supervision and control of breeding. The law is a regulated breed societies, breeding organisations which the ministry recognises for 10 years. Such association and reorganisation submits a request to the Ministry for recognition of one or more breeding programmes whose aim is to restore the breed and create a new breed, which is decided by the Ministry on the basis of the opinion of the committee or advice appointed by the Minister. In order to improve the final draft law between the two readings, a new article has been added to regulate the possibility of expanding the geographical area, implementing the breeding programme. It also clearly regulates the process of acquiring the originality and recognition of the status of the new breed. This association and the reorganisation independently carry out specific activities such as the management of breeding books, breeding documents, DNA analysis, while third parties can be entrusted with carrying out tests of growth, development and other phenotypic forms. Genetic diversity is reflected by the implementation of breeding programs using... genetic and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] material in gene banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They must meet certain conditions such as the genetic resources of individual species and breeds of domestic animals, facilities, equipment and professional staff. The endangered breeds are part of national heritage and their preservation is achieved through the implementation of approved breeding programmes. The main objective of the implementation of the breeding programme is the creation and cultivation of breeding animals. The reproduction of domestic animals is carried out by natural discount, artificial sensation and transfer of embryos or embryo transfer. Only farmed male throats in accordance with an approved breeding programme intended to preserve the breed should be used in a natural discount. Artificial sensation may be performed by legal and natural persons while the transfer of ova and embryos may only be carried out by legal persons. Legal and natural persons of the actions carried out must keep records and data in the register. The training of persons to carry out these tasks shall be carried out by centres for the collection and storage of seeds or centres for artificial sensation and by an authorised educational institution. Domestic animals intended for breeding and their traps traded on the EU market or entering the EU must be accompanied by a zoo technical certificate. The Katastar Bee Pashas, run by the agriculture ministry, which also determines the pasturage order instead of the bee's former alliance, is also introduced as indicated in the first reading proposal. Only pure breed poultry and grandfather breeding flocks which must be included in the central list of breeding flocks may be produced from eggs of pure breeds and breeding flocks. This law also provides for rules of competition for hooves which may not differ from EU rules and with their application are responsible national sports alliances while the competition organiser applies the rules. The inspection supervision of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by the State Inspectorate which controls a whole series of provisions such as enforcement, trade, documentation, cultivation, compliance and compliance with the conditions. Also new in this law, i.e. the first reading, is the abolition of HPA in accordance with the government's conclusion of August 2018, because since 1.1.2019, its affairs have been taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Centre for Agriculture and Food. The law on livestock farming and many, even 29 regulations concerning the Law on cattle farming will cease there, while new sublegal acts relating to the implementation of this law will be passed by a minister of a year. I also appeal to do so because otherwise there will be problems. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119873	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Allen Prelec, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119874	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, here's the law, among other things, was made for the removal of agencies, for adapting to European regulations, but I'd say it's a lot of technical nature. In order not to just say that it's good and without criticism, we're going to say a little bit what we actually see is something controversial about it, first of all in Article 9, and I'm going to read a part of Article 9 that I think is controversial, so here we are, just so the secretary of state hears what I think is wrong. He says, "The association and organisations can entrust third parties with carrying out the tests on growth, development, production and genetic evaluation of breeding animals associated with the management of their breeding programmes in accordance with Article 27(1) of the EU Regulation." What third parties are these? They allow the management of breed societies especially at the time when one air-empty space is left to be left to be removed by HPA, which has been a major aid in the former functioning of breeding societies. It also raises the question of what resources human and IT and professional breeding associations will carry out those tasks under the right Article. In Croatia, similar institutions do not exist, or in other words, we leave the control of the breeding of foreigners where such companies exist. And here I'm afraid, everything we leave to strangers, I don't think it's going to work out, and there's a little bit better to regulate this and see how this article 9 actually comes to life. This proposal also opens up the possibility of conflict of interest. In the part of the implementation of the legal provisions, a significant part of the work in the field of genetic construction has been taken over by breeding organisations. What kind of breeders are these? Breeding domestic animals, except for a few horses that function on their own. Up until now, in their operation they have relied on the aid of state institutions under this primarily I think of the Croatian Agricultural Agency, although confidential data should be asked how many agency employees were directly involved in the work of individual alliances and associations. And we know that in the agriculture ministry system, 3,000 people are working, and today we have 100-29 advisory services. How directly are they involved in helping our farmers, or cattle farmers? It is a practice in other EU Member States. The farming of domestic animals in economic and social terms has a strategic importance for the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. And contributes to the preservation of its natural and cultural heritage. This agricultural activity that contributes to safety and supply of quality and healthy food is the source of income for the agricultural community and the basis for the preservation of life in rural areas. Breeding of domestic animals is best promoted by the use of purebred breeding animals or farmed hybrid pigs, recorded high genetic quality through a system of technologically technical procedures in the breeding and exploitation of domestic animals. The above system implies developing effective methodological approaches in the field of biotechnology and applying and using the same results through processes of technological technical character in breeding and exploiting domestic animals called the common name zoo technique. This law also aims to encourage the association and rounding of breeders, which is what the minister himself said in an interview, I think it's a good direction. We have a lot of breeders, or farmers dealing with pig and cow farming, but they are not sufficiently united and are too weak for one common approach on the agricultural market. The EU law allows for the independence of breed societies and that is good that this law brings about isolation, so that they can perform independently on the market. Care should also be taken about the preservation of genetic diversity, but also the reproduction of domestic animals, indigenous varieties, here I am so I would say particularly sentimental towards the area where I live, and live in Croatia Zagorje, that part, Zapresic and... The end of Croatia's Zagorje, there we have the indigenous varieties of Zagorje turkey, which for a time Zagreb County, i.e. Zagorje County promoted and gave special incentives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here, and in that sense, I think it's important to worry about the reproduction of these domestic animals and indigenous varieties. Zagorje turkey, could be one of the brands of our Croatian agriculture. When we talk about domestic animals, then we can say, clearly these are cows and pigs, and now, in that part, I have to look back at some specific things, here I have had one cattleman, or milkman, who was doing significant results on the Croatian level, was one of the better Croatian milkers, with exceptional results, however, they could not survive. He could not survive selling milk on the Croatian market, Dukat, which he bought. The price of milk, the purchase price of milk was such that he simply could not survive, turned, as it is said, into marry and in his beaks began to produce milk processing, sell milk on milk, and here today, is one successful farmer, who has a future, with whom he sees with his 3 children how he will survive in Croatian agriculture. This is a positive example, unfortunately, there are not many positive examples. Many, many farms in Croatia have fallen, precisely because of the low price, because they did not join together, strengthened. I hope, along with these laws, which will encourage them and which will worry about, that Croatian agriculture does not go down the way, but that it grows, which is not the current trend and I hope that everything will change. This was one example of dairy, Minister Tolusic said in that previous law buy Croatian products. Well, I believe most Croatian customers want to buy Croatian products, they are certainly better quality products, thus encouraging domestic production. Now, are they favourable and cheaper than import products? No, they're not. It is the same, in the previous debate either, why they are not more favourable, why they are not at least more competitive in import products. Here, it's the same point of all this together that law needs to be regulated, a way to make our domestic producers more competitive. The minister said we can do it in a way that we can encourage them, that we all buy. But clearly, we will not only buy domestic products, because here we want good domestic producers, because we have a sense of Croatian products, but must be competitive, or priced. The same way as here, the production of pigs in Croatia has fallen to a level that has never been, or has never been worse. We import pigs, we have homemade prosciutto, but that home ham is not from domestic pigs, but is bought from imports from Hungary or from various countries in the environment. So let's encourage the purchase, but let's also encourage manufacturers to have a reason to produce and be competitive. These are the laws we have to think about. We must take our concrete actions and every citizen and all of us together to be a Croatian producer, a agricultural producer, to be competitive, to buy these products but to help them be affordable. In addition to these remarks that I cited, these two remarks,... I beg you to respect this, and we have no specific objections regarding this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm sorry that he's not here right now so the minister doesn't say we're criticizing for criticism, because today we're not really interested in criticizing for criticism, but it's simply well-intentioned criticism. I think the opposition here is to point out for all the weaknesses of the law and of this law and the previous one, that we work together on the well-being of Croatian agriculture, Croatian economy, and to take it with one, I would say good intentions, because on my part at least that's a good intention. And we from the SDP Club here are trying all the laws that are good and that we don't see great shortcomings to support and we won't be against this law, I hope we accept it but we'll be restrained. In any case, we want to show good intentions in the debates, point out things that are not good for us to encourage the minister and his associates to be even better, to write better laws but to be concrete when it comes to the desire to help the Croatian farmer, the desire to help the Croatian farmer have such status that he can survive. Anyway, here's this law, for this law we don't have a lot of objections and we won't be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119875	I thank my esteemed colleague, Prelec, for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119876	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished secretary with his co-worker, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, as my colleague Grmoy used to say on the club's behalf, so we have, we have a lot of good reading, we have a number of observations, but the fact is, regardless of the observations that at this point domestic animals are very rare because politics, it has not worked in the interest of developing livestock farming, and even in terms of association, it is simply visible when we see statistics in the last 10 years and today, and even before that, they are even more rapid. I'm sorry that he doesn't take it seriously either, what he's here all the time is essentially in his law which is... The law on agriculture and basically all the time and speaking opposition to this, opposition to that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry. Here's what we didn't protect. on tax reform, the amendment also accepted about the Dalmatian prosciutto, the državni prosciutto, from the pig products, however, is becoming less and less in Croatia a pig. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think they need concrete measures for domestic animals, for people who deal with cattle, shepherds or shepherds, and that will be very important for the development of this region. I'm saying this because it comes from Dalmatia, from Rome it's famous Dalmatia for being a sheep's end, growing goats, and I know what it means, and when I was younger, I don't really have much, it's not as many years as it means cattle as it is today. The results are catastrophic, catastrophic, here they need concrete measures as regards the breeding of domestic animals and these measures are the survival of people in the area and it is not, and it is not currently in the focus of either this government or the former governments because they are simply devastating, humiliating results and because of that we have what a colleague on behalf of the club was saying to the SDP, we have to import pigs from other countries to produce Dalmatian prosciutto, to produce Dalmatian prosciutto or something third. So we're simply not working to protect domestic animals, not in protection, but simply to grow domestic animals. That's right in dairy production. Not so long ago, we had 64 thousand dairy producers, now we have under 5,000 dairy producers, much larger imports, and that's all consequently related to what simple import lobbys do their jobs, and the import lobby did it disastrously. I will repeat another story, it is incomprehensible for me to import the most in Croatia of all 3 billion euros to import a billion, to import the most food products, to import pork, it is really... while our farms are empty in Slavonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these laws and prejudices, we also have meanings and persuasion, we have too much copying of European regulations and European directives to get in touch with European officials while we have left our traditional production that should of course be modernised, but in that we are essentially in order to court European officials, we have essentially forgotten the village, peasants. Apparently, it was nicer to wipe their shoes off than to have mud in Slavonia or Dalmatian Zagora. Here's another secretary I'd say it's a very important measure, that we expect, not just the obligations and responsibilities of the cattlemen who are getting smaller and smaller. Here, unfortunately the shepherd, the cattleman or, as counterpart Bačić said, the shepherd is getting smaller and smaller. So I expect that measures, concrete measures through various funds, not only in the EU,... The EU is because we have been coughing for centuries that we will encourage the livestock and survival of people in our hearths, and in particular I said Dalmatia Zagora, the hinterland of Primorje, Lika, Slavonia, of course Gorski Kotar and all those mountainous areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So get into the protection of the peasants. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119877	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have a replica, dear colleague Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119878	Mr. Bulj, I wanted to replicate today but there was no chance of that, you mentioned several times that between the 13% VAT rate should have been applied to the Dalmatian and the Drape prosciutto. I do not agree with that, and I will never agree, so long as there is at least one millimeter of pork from the Croatian state in this Dalmatian and drape prosciutto. So I'm responsibly saying that in 95% of the dutiful and Dalmatian prosciuttos, we have import butts. In these prosciuttos we only have Croatian salt and Croatian air, or storm. With such a 13% VAT rate if applied to Dalmatian and državish prosciutto which has added value times 10, they would further destroy domestic Croatian agricultural livestock production, I say responsibly and so long I will not raise my hand for it until the Dalmatian prosciutto producers buy Croatian pork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119879	Thank you, fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119880	So I agree with you that simply the less pigs and pigs that are domestic and we agree there and that's why I disagree with the minister, and obviously you don't agree with Minister Tolusic because simply the man code lives in another country, the code we don't live in the same country, in the same area, he's talking quite the opposite of what you just said, he's telling fairy tales, how much incentives he gives, how much he's made, how much he's forced, how much he's done. In essence, I agree, more and more imports and this GMO food, fed pigs, it is known that imports of soybean soybean soybeans, which are fed, imported and sold, are produced domestically, under the cover of domestic products, which are essentially not domestically produced pigs in other parts. That's why we all want to fight together and encourage people to grow domestic animals in our fields. We don't do that, and I agree in this first part, and apparently you are, too. Then... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] With Minister Tolusic, who boasts that he has done everything. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119881	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. We move on to the next debate, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, is not present. Final word on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119882	Dear Vice-President of HS, honourable parliamentary MPs, I have nothing but to thank you for a constructive and positively focused debate under the Final Proposal of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, even those who had objections to the version of the first reading. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119883	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We have one replica, dear colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119884	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, you did not answer me or the rest of you are obliged to answer what the Ministry is specifically doing about the impaired production and breeding potential, you said something to me about beefing and the calf sector, but you didn't answer me anything about sheepmaking, goats, poultry and beekeeping, and you didn't have time, so I'm asking you to answer that in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119885	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119886	I thank, here, the esteemed representative Križanić, that I did not have time, so, except for this part of 195 million kuna for the restoration of the damaged production potential in the beef sector, specifically for the dairy sector, the Ministry of Agriculture has provided another 24 million kuna in a three-year period, as well as this 195 million for three-year period, for the calf cow system, for the poultry and sheep goat sector, but you have asked an additional question that you have not now asked, meaning, in the pig's sector on an annual level, breeding throats, meaning, breeding pigs have 1,000,00 kn support, while all those original and protected breeds by, means, the conditional throat have the support of EUR 200,00 per year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119887	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. With this, we have exhausted all discussions on this agenda point, I see Mr. Križanić is pleased with the answer. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and his associate for their reasons and for their answers. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119888	Final proposal of the Animal Breeding Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 399. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee by the Proposer accepted them and they became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals. I find that with 78 votes for, unanimously, the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119889	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to the next item of the agenda, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Spatial Planning, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 529 Proposer is Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of Art. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172, The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure in accordance with Article. 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of the Article. 197. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I ask the representative of the motion of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal of the Law, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119890	Honorable MPs and MPs. Based on the Law on Spatial Planning, which entered into force in 1.1.2014, the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development has been established to carry out professional activities of spatial planning for the Republic of Croatia. As we already know from several exhibitions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted its conclusion on 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other real persons with public authority and this conclusion was planned to join the Croatian Institute for Space Development with the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and to continue its work in the composition of the Ministry with the date of 1 January 2019. By passing the proposed Law, the Croatian Institute for Physical Development will join the Ministry, the professional affairs of the spatial arrangement for the Republic of Croatia will be carried out by the Ministry through the competent internal establishment unit of the Institute for Spatial Development. The availability of the state-level space plan adopted by the public in analogue form will be ensured by the Ministry. The ministry will take over all jobs, workers, archives and other documentation, resources for work, rights and obligations, financial resources and other assets of the Institute. The Croatian Institute for Spatial Development will cease to exist on the day of registration of the register and on the date of erasure of the Croatian Institute will cease the term of office of director of the Institute, the term of office of the President of the Administrative Council and members of the Governing Council will cease. As far as further concerned, this law extends the time limit which is now 5 years in which no urban planning has been adopted for an isolated construction area outside the settlement and until which the basic infrastructure is not built. So he stops being a building plot and we extend that deadline to seven years since it's an art. The 43rd paragraph 6 set out that it was 5 years ago. We know that the law was passed in 1.1.2014 and for those spatial plans that are such a provision, when it entered into force, that deadline would end in 1.1.2019, of course, it would have had a large number of construction areas that would cease to be construction areas, and perhaps even during the construction of the basic infrastructure or are under way to develop urban plans, so we are extending it to 7 years to avoid such an unfortunate situation. There were no other changes to this emergency procedure. So to repeat everything that is related to the government's conclusion is the subject and this urgent change that is related to the deadline. The Ministry of course prepares and amends the Law on Spatial Planning which, in front of this Parliament, will come somewhere, I hope in 2 months. Which is some kind of plan, and there's gonna be a lot of reform-related changes, and that's right. Information system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119891	I would like to thank Mr. Mejdric's esteemed secretary of state for this explanation. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119892	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. We have received an open letter from 4 professional chambers, Croatian chambers, so construction engineers, Croatian chambers of electrical engineering engineers, Croatian chambers of engineering engineers and Croatian chamber of architects, which indicate that this bill was done without any consultation with the profession, that it introduces disorder as well as uncertainty in this sector, and for this reason they have ordered, therefore, the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Shromara to withdraw and remove this law from the agenda. Please, can you comment on that open letter, if you have received it, if you have shown yourself about it, have had any changes compared to that proposal you have previously made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119893	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac, Secretary of State Meštric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119894	Thanks for asking. As far as this law is concerned, this is partly a question and in the next Law on the Chamber of Architects, but I'll just open it up for you, so this law has been consulted, it's passed all the standard procedures that the law has to pass and such remarks we haven't had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119895	Thank you for your response. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Lončar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119896	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Spatial Planning, only the purpose of administrative discharge... the system in accordance with the plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I welcome that the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development will be integrated as a structural unit at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, in a way that all the jobs that have worked so far continue to work, because the Institute is very important for the spatial planning profession, for all levels of the Republic. The current and future tasks of the Croatian Institute for Physical Development are very important and include, among other things, the development, that is, co-ordination of the production and monitoring of the implementation of the state plan, the spatial development of the Croatian Parliament. The public positively accepted expert meetings, with the support of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the spatial arrangement of the organization of institutions such as urban rural ties, the key topic was the relationship between smaller and larger urban centres and their rural environments in the context of spatial planning, and then the expert assembly of urban rehabilitation was the unlawful construction seen with several aspects, as a conference on... on the occasion of the marking of the 2nd International Day... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Council of Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current staff of the Institute as civil servants will devote more time to professional affairs, as it will staff,... Hard work to do together in the ministry's service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's still good to expire. 43. paragraph 6 which is defined as an isolated construction area from 2 settlements for which within 5 years the deadline runs from '14. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, the plan or infrastructure is not built, will be proposed for up to 2 years and I welcome this proposal this way, as it is a reduction in the costs of the unit of local administration, but within an additional 2 years they can go through such activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Isolated construction areas for outside the settlement should also be planned where an interest in better and greater economic investments is expected. The problem arises that a particular area is reserved, and nothing is built on it. This makes it impossible to make an area of interest to new investors, and I believe that this is a very large measure. The HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119897	I thank my esteemed colleague Lonchar for this debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Bernarda Topolko, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119898	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning. This draft law, which is in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since August of this year and concerning the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds and other legal persons with public authority, with the aim of their effective work, plans for the Croatian Institute for Physical Development to join the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in 1.1.2019. The HNS representative club accepts this bill for a number of reasons. First of all, the law will allow the ministry's office to join a more rational business organisation and more efficient business, resulting in a total reduction in operating costs. Also, this bill will extend the deadline of 5 years, to 7 years in which no urban planning of the arrangement has been adopted or until which the basic infrastructure is not built, ceases to be a building land. Namely, by order of the Art. 43 century 6 of the applicable law, it is prescribed that an isolated construction area outside the settlement, for which no urban planning has been adopted within 5 years of the date of its designation, or until which the basic infrastructure is not built, ceases to be a building land. This deadline began on the date of entry into force of the law, i.e. on 1 January 2014, which means that it expires on 1 January 2019. This will result in a large number of construction areas, including those for which urban planning is under way and for which construction of the basic infrastructure is being completed over the course of 5 years, which would result in significant damage to the economy and result in significant cost of time to complement spatial plans, and thus significant financial costs. Therefore, by way of provision of this article, i.e. by extending the period from 5 to 7 years, such a situation will be avoided. As I mentioned, the club of HNS advocates supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119899	I thank my esteemed colleague, Topolko. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Daniel Meštric, the Honorable State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119900	Well, I thank you for this brief and concrete debate. But I would still like to mention one sentence, which is important, and it is mentioned by Mr. Lonchar. Our office isn't actually being abolished, it continues to work as part of the ministry. He's going to be working on a state-run spatial plan, so he's not going into any kind of market. What's being abolished, it's Mr. Lonchar, Parliamentarian Lonchar, he's well noticed. The Director shall be abolished, the President of the Governing Council shall be abolished, the entire Board shall be abolished, the administration shall be abolished, the floods etc. and they continue to work as part of the ministry that has the service. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119901	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for the final word. With this overexhausted... And you have a replica, I apologize to my colleague Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119902	Thank you very much, Chairman, Your Honor. The space is the most important thing, and we're going to keep the room safe and we're going to triangulate it. However, I am sorry and sorry, I have invited you today to a very important trial, and I have given the law, amending the Construction Law, where base stations and Latin pillars would need a building permit like in the whole EU or on the entire continent, only in Croatia is not. You gave a negative opinion, that's your business and didn't get most of the board. I'm hoping to get some from the MPs. I'm sorry, the Ministry was invited today to participate in the round table where there were over 40 associations and many people, and I organized it, and I'm sorry that no one was present in an atmosphere from the Ministry of Construction, where there was... You received a call from the Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry that the ministry avoids this discussion of the preservation of our space and that we are working in the interests of our citizens, not in the interest of foreign teleoperators, because here is the fact that teleopers are above the law in the Republic of Croatia. They don't need a building permit or respect today's norms. I'm sorry you didn't come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119903	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Meštric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119904	Well, this may not be directly related to the Law on Spatial Planning, although it is related, the base stations are planned with spatial plans, but in my presentation, I said that we are moving towards amending the Law on Spatial Planning, amending the Construction Act, there will be a big debate, there will be counselling, and there may be room for some sort of repair. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119905	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119906	The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Spatial Planning, the emergency procedure, first and second reading of PZ No 529, is proposed by the Government, the debate is concluded. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Spatial Planning. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 79 votes for the U.S., the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Spatial Planning has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119907	We're going to the next item on the agenda. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Sit down, Secretary of State. I'll call you back. Emergency procedure, I. and II. Reading, PZ No. 530, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 5. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall be brought together by I and II. reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of Art. 197. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I call upon the representative of the motionor, the secretary of state, the respected Mr. Daniel Mestrić, to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119908	Thank you, Vice President. Once again, I welcome distinguished MPs and distinguished representatives. The law on the chamber of architects and chambers of engineers in construction and spatial planning has arranged a basic structure, part-circuit, public authority and membership in the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, the Croatian Chamber of Engineering and the Croatian Chamber of Electrical Engineering Engineers. The purpose of the Law supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Engineers in Construction and Space is to ensure the implementation of the Government's Conclusion, which was adopted on 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority, which are scheduled for Croatian spatial development to be attached to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and that the tasks carried out by the Institute will be carried out by the competent establishment units within the Ministry with the starting date 1.1.2019. It is necessary to amend the provisions relating to the suspension of membership in the chamber in order to enable employees of the Croatian Institute for Physical Development, who perform the tasks of making business plans, to carry out these same tasks after joining the Croatian Institute in the Ministry, meaning the jobs they will carry out in the ministry. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget. So it's a follow-up to this law, which we just said to the people who worked in the office, and since this law prescribed that employees of the ministry can't hand out spatial plans, this changes allows these employees to work on a state spatial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119909	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, would the rapporteurs perhaps take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Davor Loncar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119910	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the Chamber Act... the number of agencies and other legal persons with public authority shall be carried out by the proposed organisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, agencies are doing jobs and looking from the point of view... and transparency for end-users is more acceptable, that there is one office with clear powers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of the proposed law of professional work for the state allows employees of the Croatian Institute of Spatial Development to continue to conduct their professional activities, but now in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. In addition to the general provisions, the law contains provisions governing the structure, area and manner of operation of the chamber, the public work of the chamber, the authorities of the chamber, the public authority of the chamber, the general acts which bring the chamber, the registration of the registers of the chamber, pension and termination of the chamber membership, and the liability of the infringement provision, the overZOR of law enforcement. The HDZ Club will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119911	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lonchar. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, you gave up your colleague, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Bernarda Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119912	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's another law in front of us from the construction facility, i.e. ... more specifically, the draft law supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a proposal for a law which is in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 14 August of this year and related to the reduction of the number of fund institutions and other legal persons with public authority with the aim of their effective work. The draft law plans for the Croatian Institute for Physical Development to be attached to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, i.e. to continue work in the composition of the ministry since 1.1.2019. The HNS representative club accepts this bill, as it will first and foremost enable a rational business organisation and more efficient business, resulting in a total reduction in operational operating costs. Also by passing the law, it will allow current employees of the Croatian Institute of Physical Development, who, in order to take over jobs from the ministry, become state officials in the ministry, to continue to carry out spatial planning tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119913	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardi Topolko for this debate, I would like to conclude the debate, thank the Secretary of State, Dunji Magash, and Secretary of State Daniel Meštric for the reasons of the proposals and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-06-0.u119914	The final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No 530, is proposed by the Government, the debate is concluded. I give it the vote Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 FOR and 1 COUNTRY, have been passed a law supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Before we continue to work, I would like to welcome all of us students and students of crafts and technical school from Dubrovnik. Welcome. Today's agenda 1st item is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration, second reading, P.Z. No. 419; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environment and Nature. The government has submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
