ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66877	Thank you. I'd like to talk today about religious science in schools. I'm looking for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66878	A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66879	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA club, I am looking for a break of ten minutes to talk afterwards about customerism in the Republic of Croatia in the context of the new book of Politologist Davorka Budimir "Political Elite of '86. until '90'.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66880	Well, this is already advertising products, we shouldn't be doing this. Anyway, it's the book that's being bought. [[Student Alexic: Scientific paper.]] It's a colleague of ice cream. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66881	President, the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66882	All right, all right. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66883	I'm looking for a break to talk about changing the tariff fee in HEP and collecting electricity for our fellow citizens and related to that pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66884	I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66885	Also on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66886	You got it. That's five requests for a break. So we'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is the Advocacy Club for Croatia. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66888	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. I was recently in Clay. There was a symposium on post-traumatic stress, and I have to say, I was thrilled to hear how that gline association worked. They're proactive how we're supposed to be all Christians, not waiting for the state to do something. That's where they do everything from honey to cheese to beans. All praise to them. In the symposium, they were lined up at the pay phone, right there on stage, everyone. From militant atheists to psychiatrists and wonders, no one mentioned God in that formula for post-traumatic stress. It's like God doesn't exist. Why are we ashamed to bear witness to our faith? If we're Christians. Are we formal Christians? Are we proactive, are we kutur Christians? You have 10 commands of God that are a framework, and if you don't believe in God, like most heads here don't believe in God, formally believes in God, but it's cultural Catholicism. This is a framework, the foundation of civilised Europe, the 10 commands of God. Then you have another, which is totally antithesis of those 10 commands is that one order that says one satanist named Alistair Crowley and said this, he established the first satanic church in the world, of course, from England and said this: do whatever you want. How's that going? Here are those 10 orders in Croatia. The way I see it. She says, "I am the Lord your God, she is the first." And a lot of heads don't believe in God, of course, does one, says he goes to mass even though he doesn't believe in God, every case that he exists, he must have a relationship. That's where it counts. She's doing great. You've got to have some kind of connection. Some got baptized and needed a fork to baptize them, they had 120 kilos when a new Croatian state arrived. Second, do not utter the name of your God in vain. I didn't see anywhere, I was... in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's art. I've heard of one recently, God forgives me, he curses the barbs that hold the sky and the office where St. Peter pays the angels. It's art, I've never heard that before. Shout the Lord's Day and go to church on Sundays. Friday is a saint with Muslims, a Sabbath is with the Jews, and in us Sundays. Well, they loved Sundays, too. I told some recently at the restaurant, says you know better Latin mass than the late Cardinal Kuharic because that's where you stalked people when you went to mass there. That's it. They went to mass too. Don't kill me. I don't need to talk about it. Here, abortion. How many Croatian children are abortions? We're talking about a demographic monster, and how much here is co-operated by NGOs with one organization, it's called Planned Parenthood, Planned Parenthood, Smoke Curtain, and it's the only association responsible for the abortion of millions and a half of lives of human beings. And we keep our mouths shut about it. Don't sin in vain. Now you have a zoophylia and other philanthropy, coming here. And now you have, say, a man under investigation for pedophile at Big Brothers. There's a head. He's got a record longer than my leg. And what will it look like when they start making extramarital love of a SPD man and a HDZ man? What's that gonna look like? We don't have to say don't steal. Don't steal it, since '45. There was one command, and that commandment was: keep it together. I don't want to talk about kleptocracy. We all know that, people are sick of talking about thieving, we know everything. Don't say false testimony. Opening archives. One man told me, he said a lot of heads would die of sadness if they entered the archives. What would they see in the archives? That a woman ratted out her husband, husband's wife, and it hides the archives. Records in Belgrade, down there, informants, petty shoemen have code names. There's one here, I mean Odysseus. Is that what happened? I don't know what it was like anymore. Now, here. Now comes the Istanbul Convention. The Catholic Church, all theologians say against, HDZ says about other heads for. Are our believers confused? Of course they're confused. And now I have to say in the end that a lot of heads are grieving in the Parliament today. They mourn these militant atheists and other heads because he rests his soul, General Stipeic is being buried under the sign of a cross and church ritual and that means there are no atheists in the trench and when you walk across the pond. Now it's easy to act like an atheist, and when you go over the bar, when you see what you've done in your life, you think a little differently. And it's militant atheists, you can only pinch your teeth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66889	We're going to another debate. On behalf of the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66890	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to say a few words about clientism. Clientism is something that has lasted 50 years in the Republic of Croatia. Clientism is a cancer that eats this country, and it is evident that unless you are a member of a party you cannot advance in the state sector. It's very hard to make progress. Yesterday I was at the promotion of a kind of scientific work, political scientist Davorka Budimir, political elite in Croatia in '86. '90s. It's a document, there's not a single bet, but there's a clean document mentioning some of the acts, the organization is mentioned, and there's the names of all the officials in '86. And the '90s. And nothing has changed since then and to this day in the way it works in political life. Because before anyone becomes the head, the director, any important function in society, we must be a member of the KP of Croatia, without it not progressing, and everything was a state sector, there was very little private sector. Today again, if someone wants to be a member of the board of directors, if they want to be head, director, assistant minister, secretary of state, anything like that, if they want to be even some professional person in some state sector, they simply have to be a member of a party that's in power, at this point it's HDZ, when the SDP was anything like that. Of course, when they come to power, they look after each other because, for example, When a new government comes, someone needs to get off the essentials but he's moving somewhere in the back and he gets still, good, good pay. And that's the mass, the mass, and the mass, and there's no end, and there's the cause of the state of Croatia stagnating, that's the main cause. There is no value for expertise, no appreciation for the results of the work, someone who has ruined some kind of company, is once again appointed to another company for a member of the board, and it lasts, lasts, lasts, and lasts. I will read a few details of the documents in this book and so before the 1990 elections, the Law on the termination of the law on the examination of the origin of the property of the confiscation of illegally acquired property was passed. Therefore, before the elections themselves, a law has been passed which, outside force, has been laid down by the Law on the examination of the origin of the property and the confiscation of illegally acquired property. Why was it put out of force? It was put out of force to protect the communist officials in the past and so that they would not get hurt when a new democratic power comes, it is a modus operand to avoid getting hurt, and it should be done in a very bad way because bad things were done. Now I'm going to read you some things from the HDZ announcement before the election. That announcement now that I'm reading it, I would vote for HDZ, but I would join the HDZ. Well, that's where they say what they're fighting for. For the purpose of eradicating secular elements from the state name and national symbols, for the full and real equality of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their national or inu membership, for the equality of the Roman Catholic Orthodox, Islamic and every other religion of all worlds, for the halting of emigration and the faster and more complete return of the displaced Croatia to grandfatherly hearth, for the society of social justice that will ensure the employment of the working population and the special assistance of families with more children, for the return of dignity to work and for the justice of the personal ability and the pawnage, for the dignity and affirmation of women in social life, for the protection of families, for the protection of families with more children, for providing support from the state budget to the unemployed and for all who find themselves in material anxiety, for the reduction of women in social life, for the sake of health and health care, for the welfare of children's health care and health care, for the welfare care of children, for the welfare of children, health care and health care and social care care, for the care care care care, for the care of children, health care and social care, health care care, health care, health care care care, health care, health care care, health care, health care, health care, health care and social care and social care, health care, health care, health care, health care care care care care care care care care care care care, health care, health care care care care, health care, health care care and care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care care care, health care, health care, health care care care care care care care care care care and care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care, health care care care care care care, health care, health care, health care care care and care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care, health care and care care, health care and care, health care care care and care care care care care, health care, health care, health care care care care and care, health care and care care care care, health care and care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care care There was a problem. It didn't work out right. For delegation, reduction and reshuffle... The structure and bureaucratic administration, for its final rationalisation and for the legal society without fear, coercion and without an invisible network from the people of alienation, for a healthy environment, for the protection of nature and the human environment, for a coherent, balanced economic development and preservation of natural resources, for the care of Croatian history and cultural heritage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let us ask ourselves how much of this declaration has been achieved. I don't see a 10% out of that declaration. We're not from that system we had before '90. not one millimeter out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66891	Let's go to the third debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66892	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs, MOST of Independent Lists also addressed the Final Proposal of the Election Law and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Croatian Assembly on the Elections of Representatives on 30 March 2017. Soon, colleagues and colleagues will be given the anniversary of the proposal for the adoption of the Croatian Assembly. Let me remind you, the MOST proposed that the law increase the number of preferential votes in the elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We suggested that each voter has 3 preferential votes instead of one. The main goal of this is to democratisation the electoral process and bring policy closer and politicians closer to the citizens. We want voters to be able to choose by name and last name a number of MPs who they think will best represent their interests. Applying Election Law... Parliamentarians. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At present, we have a situation where MPs from the current lists of parties are largely guided by the logic of the political opportunity. They follow the instructions blindly of their party leadership while not taking into account the will of those who chose them because only blind obedience enables them to chair, sinecur and political survival. We therefore want to make the electoral process more personal, parliamentarians closer to citizens who choose and make them responsible citizens. In addition to 3 preferential votes in our amendments to the Electoral Law, we propose a ban on candidacy for convicted criminals as we did in the Law on Local Elections. The model brought by parliament on the MOST proposal prevented thousands of convicted criminals from running in recent local elections. We want this system to be applied to parliamentary elections as well. After all, we are bound by the Constitutional Court's decision of April 2017 to apply it throughout the electoral legislation. We would also like to remind a part of the ruling that this proposal was one of the conditions of the former coalition, so we are surprised that they do not want to even discuss it, let alone stick to what they promised when they needed hands to form a government. I remind you, we brought this law together in our first reading. If someone hasn't changed their mind in the meantime, it's time for the citizens to explain why. Moreover, not only did the proposal of the electoral law, that it rots for a full year in the agenda of the assembly, but the government did not favour or give its opinion throughout that period. In accordance with this and the fact that the protocol is almost a year from the submission of the proposal, we call on the President of the Croatian Parliament to determine the date of the debate on this topic in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. We also call on all of the Club's opposition and all MPs to support us in this request, and that the first legislative proposal that the opposition will put to the debate is just to arrange the election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It is one of the foundations of our democratic, constitutional and political order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66893	We're going to the 4th debate, the SDP Representatives' Club of Honored colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66894	Thank you very much, colleagues and fellow citizens. Today we warn of two problems that show that it is essentially for HDZ and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic that citizens are just numbers or that they do not understand or want to help many of our citizens in their daily problems. One thing we point out today is that HEP, respectively, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency has reduced the border to entering the so-called Red tariff model from 30 to 20 kilowatts. Not to explain in detail now, what it means, but eventually it will result in bigger bills for those who, for example, are heating up electricity during these colder days, for 13,000 new users will result in accounts of 1,000 kn bigger than yesterday. And without any notice, without any information that people are making copycats, that they can't use more power than the tariff model provides, but simply at the end of the month, there will come an account that will charge 13,000 of our fellow citizens, companies, with at least 1000 kunas of larger bills. The most affected will be the people in Dalmatia, because the state there has not provided gas pipelines and what it should have provided over the past years, so that people have cheaper heating. And now that it's a little colder, people are still heating up on electricity, and they're going to have bigger bills on that side. This only shows that the authorities, i.e. HDZ and Plenkovic, are far more important to who will be directly in HEP whether the HNS will provide one or two members of the administration. Whether someone will get caught in this or in that county, rather than whether 13000 of our families will have higher costs that will be 1,000 kn higher per month. And I'm warning here from this public pay phone on this, and on the other hand, we're asking HERU and HEP to return the old border to the so-called border. the red tariff model. The other thing that is even more scandalous is the insistence of Plenkovic and HDZ on the so-called "Hydden". pension reform. Nothing has worked for a year and a half and the first reform they announce, which they will push, is the one that will hit hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, future pensioners, who say that in 2033 they will retire from 67 years ago five years earlier than they were supposed to. And that will increase the penalization of the early retirement of our fellow citizens. What will it mean, for example, that in 2033 when he retires 5 years before it was planned and 5 years less, than if he were 67 years old, he'll have a pension almost 20% lower than he would have worked until 67 years ago. What makes the European Commission, let's say it doesn't push France to do that? Why does Andrej Plenkovic accept any order he receives from Brussels at the expense of Croatian citizens? The answer is very simple. Mr. Plenkovic, the change counts another year and a few days and will likely leave us on some duty in Brussels. And that is why it is more important for him to please what the European Commission is looking for than to protect hundreds of thousands of our citizens. It's about those who were born in 1966 and who are going to now, so instead of 61 it means those 5 years it's over 300,000 of our fellow citizens. The message that Andrej Plenkovic sends to our citizens is working until the end, you work until 67 I don't care how you live from your low pension, as far as I'm concerned, you can go directly to the cemetery at 67 years of age. And that is what we must not allow and that is what we must all rebel against in Croatia. And so are those who go to school today, because it's their future, because when they do, they'll get into that situation. And to Andrej Plenkovic, once more a message, do not listen to Andrej as he tells you, listen and protects his fellow citizens, they are 100 times more important than the Brussels officials are more important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66895	Comrade Mars, you've abused these ten seconds. But I'm sure the Prime Minister will listen to you. Let's move on now, it's time for our esteemed colleague, Ljubica... Junkers. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on now, it's Ljubica Lukačić, the club of HDZ representatives, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66896	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's today I want to talk about an extremely important two days. I must admit, I expected a few more MPs to ask for a break in order to speak at least once this day, but no one. The current political situation which, I dare say according to what we just heard and it's not very current, is far more important than what I'm about to talk about. Today is the World Day for Down Syndromes, equally National Day for Disabilities. People who have acquired their disability at work. They believe that most of their issues in the Republic of Croatia have not been resolved yet, although we have taken an extremely good path. Unfortunately disability is the reason for early retirement, disability is for not getting a job. These problems are facing both categories of people with disabilities that I'm talking about here today. The Croatian Association of Disabled Workers will warn the Croatian public all week long to show that their remaining abilities are still of value and that they can keep their jobs until their regular retirement. Both categories of people with disabilities face a major problem, which is to artificialize and determine disability or physical damage. On this occasion, I would like to express my great satisfaction that we will soon discuss the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which will finally enable us to give opportunity to the Institute of Arts and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in order to determine the disability that has not been possible so far. By establishing the disability and one and the other categories of people with disabilities I am talking about here today, they will exercise their rights based on the disability solution. People with Down syndrome will be able to get a job, which is a rare thing to this day, and we all look forward to seeing a person with Down syndrome as a waiter. They can do other jobs, so other occupations can be relevant for people with Down syndrome. People who get hurt at work have major problems because they often do not return to work after these injuries. Therefore, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation will strengthen the centres for professional rehabilitation whose task will be to enable disabled workers to return to work. One big problem facing both categories of people with disabilities is the systematic financing of associations and associations of persons with disabilities. We want to achieve and for a long time we have been talking about it, a compromise, a deal to make between all alliances and associations of persons with disabilities in order to propose a law on the financing of such associations and alliances. I suggest to colleagues who have not remembered that today is this important day to put on different socks for Down Syndrome or some work clothes for disabled workers to maintain these important days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66897	Thank you. That's what we came up with at the end of the debate after the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66898	It's nice to hear from Mr. Babic and Mr. Vučetic, and now we'll hear what Mr. Pernar has to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66899	The Honorable Chairman is asking for a break so that I can speak against gender equality, namely that there should be gender inequality in the matter of retirement, that women should have the right to go to retirement early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66900	And may I ask if you are ready to speak immediately without a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66901	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66902	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66903	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Independent Lists regarding the financing of Croatian sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66904	Are you ready for the same thing right now? Mr. Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66905	Dear ladies and gentlemen, until 2014, women could retire at 61 years of age without any penalties. However, the law was then adopted to move the retirement age every year after 2014 by 3 months, meaning type 61 years and 3 months, and 61 years up to 65 years, i.e. the goal is to work equally. However, as it is said in those Top Shop ads "but that's not all", because the plan is later to rise, that is, it's the retirement age for 67 years, which means that because of the reform of the pension system that the governments have made in Brussels and the left and right, which is already set up for us by the stories of gender equality and equality, women will eventually go and the ones who look at us if we fail to make it out of the Living Wall six years later into retirement than we should, it's a big deal. And the question arises whether women need this kind of gender equality, or whether the story of gender equality is just one cover whose goal is actually to impose not only on women but also on men in the end to work longer. Because according to the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, men will have to retire at the age of 67. I think women should have the right to go early retirement more than they do very difficult jobs. Not to mention, here I can list here in the Croatian Assembly working for 2900 kuna have 30 years of standing clean. Imagine a woman here will have to clean up until 67 years in the Parliament for wage misery. If by any chance her spine goes away or wants to go a little sooner or the woman in the kitchen will be dragonishly punished. Is that gender equality? And those parties that, like, the seamstress who works in Vartex, say, they're gonna have to sew until '67. A year instead of '61. Are you aware of what that means? And I'd like to say one more thing to the HDZ gentlemen. They told the false defenders we'll give you pensions that you have no right to. We're your friends. But they didn't say the next thought. By being faked by the military disabled, we're going to have to retire because you're going to retire 20, 30 years early, which is why a million people are going to have to retire later. So that lie that Proton Pseudos, the first untruth that HDZ has placed, is that it's possible to give someone rights that don't belong to him without anyone else losing the rights they have. This system of pensions designed by HDZ will eventually lead to those who have no right to do something and those who have no right. And I'm now asking you gentlemen and the SDP who advocates gender equality, for the protection of women, the same thing I ask the GLAS gentlemen and the CNS why you support it to equalise the retirement age of women and men when we know, or women and men, when we know that women are weaker sex, gentler sex, and that they do often difficult jobs, that children must be raised etc. I don't think your policy is aimed at protecting women and that this gender "equality" that Brussels is suggesting is actually not going to lead to a better position for women, but rather the opposite. In practice, women's lives will be even harder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66906	Thank you, too. Women aren't the weaker sex. Mr. Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry to interrupt one important topic, but since Mr. Pernar took a break, I took the opportunity to talk about a topic that is currently current, which is financing Croatian football. They're recently, come on, we can say such an abbey initiative or so on. The third time in the Croatian Football Federation, which was represented by Mr. Miskovic of the NK Rijeka, highlighted and presented his plan to finance Croatian football. It should be said immediately that for me personally as a fan it is not a third time, it is the same way to Croatian football and that their plan for financing Croatian football is a new swallowing of Croatian citizens and in fact it results in Croatian football being financed by new taxes, local self-government, and that it is actually funded by private football clubs that earn football managers. I just want to say that the right way to cure Croatian football is to reform the judicial organisation in the Croatian Football Federation, move management to confirm the charges in all clubs, restore the confidence of Croatian fans in football and then we can start talking about financing Croatian football. When Croatian football becomes fair, when people who follow Croatian football, and now we have a situation that here in the last round of matches between Inter and Lokomotiva, the letter and number literally followed 26 viewers. It's more expensive at the average people's first honour than at the first league football game. When the confidence in Croatian football comes back, the viewers will come back and therefore sponsors and then we can start talking about financing Croatian football. So here, I want as a fan and as a politician who follows the part, to express the view that this initiative and the abbey initiative is not acceptable to me personally as a fan, but also to Mosta as a political party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66908	Thank you, too. We're going now, we're moving on to the debate, we're moving on with the club debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66931	Dear colleague Ivan Pernar answered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66932	Dear Chairman, I would like to request a break on the subject of the EU's hypocrisy on the protection of women's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66933	Thank you. Anyone else? No one. I'm setting a break by 2:30. Thank you very much. It's a meeting at 14.20 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar, asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66935	Dear ladies and gentlemen. From the EU, we are often told that in Croatia we are insufficiently protecting women, that protection of women should be greater and just by alluding to these suggestions, I would like to ask the EU gentlemen why they are forcing women to work longer? In fact, the pension system in Croatia, thanks to EU directives, changed in such a way that women can no longer retire at 61 years of age, can currently be 62 years old and will gradually be able to retire at 65 years of age as men. After 2014, every year for 3 months longer they have to work to retire, meaning 61 and 3 months, 61 and 6 months, etc. Currently in 2018 it is 62. Next year it'll only be 62 and 3. And when they get to that famous 65th year, then HDZ and this Brussels team there's the SDP, there's another joke, and it's called raising then retirement to 67. So the goal is ultimately, from 61 years of working age to 67 years of age, to raise the age for retirement from 61 to 67 years of age. Women will work six years longer. Ask yourself, women, what hard jobs all work. I mentioned: cleaners, can cooks, can mention seamstresses, there are a lot of jobs where women are really made, will they have an unfettered internship or not? He won't. He'll have to work until 67. And one more thought I have to tell you. Women do not just work at their workplace, but when they come home to a large majority of them have to cook lunch, not to say what all home jobs do, so women defacto do not just one shift, but work at least two, on average, usually. Thank God there are men who do housework, but right now the fact is that women do more housework. And finally, this gender equality, that is, the story of this gender demagogy, where would the EU be equal to women and men, however equal they are? So they're going to retire at 67. Is that equality? 'Is that the gender equality Plenkovic offers women? Are these women's rights? And why am I telling you this? Because when I heard that this gender ideology suggests that a man can make sense of himself, so if I feel like a woman, that I can say that I'm a woman and it's going through, it occurs to me that when I retire, I simply say, if I don't have enough working time, I'll say, "Listen, I feel like a woman and go then as a woman in retirement." Well, but the legislator has a trick, the legislator said, "You don't want a bandit, the legislator said he'll do women the same as men." And in the end, we come to this whole story of gender equality, of gender equality, of some kind of women's rights in practice is actually just demagogy and it's just on paper. In practice, both men and women will have to work until 67. People will work to the death. Of course, you'll say: e Mr. Pernar, but there's a possibility that with '41. You're retired at the age of 65. Well, or sooner, I don't know. But what's the trick? Or women to leave a little early. Well, the thing is that only 17% of pensioners in Croatia have more than 40 years of work experience. And 41 or more years of work, even less. So basically, 85% of the future pensioners will have to work until '67. years and men and women alike. Now that's the equality we're fighting in the Living Wall, we're trying to make women retire from '61. A year, and men in '65. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u66936	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, for the explanation of this pause.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76926	Now we move to the agenda points, I propose unifying the debate, that is: - Proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018-2020 and - Proposal for an annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. Is there anyone against the motion to discuss it unitedly? If there isn't, then we'll start with that point. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 27 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Official Statistics Act and Article 31 The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now ask the applicant of the proposal, or the representative of the applicant, to further explain it. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance esteemed Željko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. As the President of the Parliament has also said, in the opening statement, pursuant to Article 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on official statistics of the DZS in cooperation with other holders of official statistics draws up a draft proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, thus drawing up this three-year programme since 2018-2020. The programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia is a programme document of official statistics which determines the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia during a multi-annual period and is developed for periods identical to the periods set out in the European Statistical Programme. Since the European Court of Auditors has recommended that the multiannual programming documents of European statistics be aligned with the multiannual financial framework. At the end of October 2017, EU Regulation 1951/2017 amending Regulation (EC) No 1951/2017 was adopted. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical and technical assistance and other technical assistance in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation. Therefore, the proposed programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia concerns the same period, i.e. the period as I said 2018-2020. The initial basis for drawing up a draft proposal for a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia is the Strategy for the Development of Official Statistics of the Republic of Croatia from 2013-2022. For the purpose of carrying out the activities of the programme each year, the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities whose version for 2018 is also today a second point in the session of the Assembly. The programme is based on the needs of users, but also on European requirements defined by the 2016 review of EU statistical requirements, the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2018-2020 includes priority areas and activities to be covered by the Croatian statistical system in the period covered by the programme, the review of the development objectives of official statistics in areas, the main results to be produced and disseminated, the responsible holders of official statistics and the primary purpose and the main users of statistical data. This programme continues to achieve the main strategic objectives of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, of which it is important to highlight those achieved in the previous period. Since the start of the previous programme, there has been a significant reduction in the burden of reporting units, as a result of modernisation of the way of collecting and increased use of administrative data, the number of pages of paper forms has decreased from over 11 million to less than 1 million pages per year in recent years. The State Statistics Office also participates in an action plan to dissipate the economy by continuing to reduce the burden of reporting units, but also to abolish the obligation to pay all fees provided for in the 2007 Regulation on the classification of business entities according to the NKD, which should reduce the administrative cost by almost one million kuna per year. In addition to the above, the DZS also increased data availability during the previous period, but a significant number of activities remain in the area. Out of the concrete statistical activities covered by this programme, it is important that the highlighted preparations for the list of populations, households, households and dwellings in 2021 are implemented fully digitally as well as statistical monitoring of indicators for monitoring progress towards global sustainable development targets by 2030. Something about an implementation plan for 2018 It therefore covers the review of all statistical research, i.e. the development activities that the official statistics holders intend to carry out in 2018. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 planned to implement a total of 280 statistical activities, of which 158 were based on direct data collection, 78 statistical surveys based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and 44 development activities. Of the total 280 statistical activities of the DZS in 2018, 232 activities will be carried out. The total resources necessary for the implementation of the annual implementation plan in 2018 are EUR 133 million and EUR 400,000, slightly above that. From this, the funds required to the DZS amount to slightly less than 109 million kuna. As part of the DZS financial plan for 2018, the planned expenditure is financed from general income and income of 90.8 million kuna. While the rest of the 17.8 million kuna is planned at EU aid positions, that is, by refunding from EU funds, i.e. the European Social Fund, own revenue and other aid. The necessary funds will be harmonised according to the needs of the 2018 changes and additions of the state budget. The new approach to drawing up the Annual Statistical Activity Implementation Plan resulted in a wider set of institutions, as well as other users in the process of making it. And only a brief review of research areas will be carried out in the area of demographic and social statistics, in the area of macroeconomic statistics 47, business statistics 100, agriculture statistics, forestry and fisheries 36, statistics for several areas 23 and support for statistical output one activity, so this is the total of 280 statistical research and projects in 2018. Here, in accordance with everything said and in accordance with the legal provision, we propose the adoption of a multi-annual statistical activity programme since '18-20. and the 2018 Implementing Plan of Statistical Activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76928	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have two replicas. First came the honorary colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76929	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Secretary of State. I have to admit that when I looked at this a little bit, I didn't resist asking you one question, and it's about module 1.0.2.0.3 that says: birth statistics and discrimination. So says a brief description of the activities and the review of the objectives and the basic purpose of the data, says general indicators for the adoption of measures in the area of gender equality. In the context of all the opportunities we have to hear all these days, I am interested in how long such data is collected, here it is said that data is actually collected which are particularly related to the pay gap, in terms of the pay gap, so I am interested in how long such data is collected, in terms of further activities that will be and are related to this module, which is predicted and has so far been any problems at all with the name of the module and the meaning of this module? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76930	Deputy Secretary of State Later, okay. [[Intruder: later.]] Then let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76931	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Honored Director of the State Statistics Office. Well, here's the proposal for a programme about the activities of the Republic of Croatia which is a very extensive material and I have to admit, I'll be an honest representative, I haven't been able to read it all, it's quite complicated. But what I'm interested in right now, the program is made, I see the studio, all areas are covered, but what I'm interested in, maybe you can answer me because of the Croatian public, when we talk about business activities, when we talk about the activities of the body of units of local self-government and administration, how much is it actually written here in the materials that the State Statistics Office is the bearer of these activities and it collects the data mainly, but in order for it to collect, someone has to fill out those forms. How much of this burden is actually on business entities, so on our crafts, businesses, and in what way you do it and how you plan to work in the future to make it easier, so that here's the unit of local self-government, our employees have trafficked to actually fill in some of the forms that come to us constantly because of statistics that ultimately do not achieve the effect they should have. Let's just take a census, every 10 years, do you really think 10 years is enough to cover this monster that is now ruling in the Republic of Croatia, which is the departure of our population? Here's to shorten that question, if it's possible to answer how much is actually a burden on all those who are preparing this data for you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76932	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76933	So, as I was saying at the outset, data is being collected and anyone who has these data, who has them and who needs to deliver them in some way, of course it requires a certain administrative procedure and a certain consumption, whether time, is financially less likely. What I was saying at the outset, as you heard, is that the number of these paper forms, i.e. the number of pages, has decreased over the past period from 11 million to less than 1 million. Therefore, it is to ensure that data delivery is automatically withdrawn from a variety of publicly available services, etc., but it is also said that further work is needed in the coming years in this respect, so that further discharge is expected in the coming years, even financially, of all those of which individual data are collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76934	Okay, thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. If the applicant's representative wishes to further explain the proposal, this has already been the case. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76935	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Tufekčić and Honored Director Kristoff, Honored colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will also support the draft programme of statistical activities for the Republic of Croatia for 2018-2020, as well as the draft annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the Law on Official Statistics, the State Statistics Office shall draw up a draft draft programme for statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, as well as a draft annual implementation plan for statistical activities, in cooperation with other statistics holders. As we heard in the preliminary presentation from the promoters, the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2018-2020 includes priority area and activities that the Croatian statistical system should cover. Then, the review of the development objectives of official statistics in areas, the main results to be produced, distributed, and responsible holders of official statistics, as well as the basic purpose and main characteristics of statistical data. The annual implementation plan shall be adopted for each year covered by the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, and this annual implementation plan shall apply to the first year of implementation of the new multiannual programming document. It covers the review of all statistical research, i.e. development activities planned to be carried out in 2018. As we have heard, the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 planned to implement a total of 280 statistical activities, which is a reduction of one activity compared to the previous 2017. Of the 280 statistical activities, 158 are based on direct data collection, 78 statistical surveys based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring, and 44 development activities. Of the total 280 statistical activities, the State Statistics Office will carry out 232 activities in 2018, down from the previous year by two activities. According to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, the total funds are estimated at 133 million, 417 thousand, 463 kuna, representing an increase of 11 million, 351 thousand, 824 thousand kuna compared to the previous year 2017. But this increase in funding, it refers to preparations to be made for the list of population, households and apartments in 2021, as well as the 2020 agricultural list that are fully planned to be implemented digitally. The necessary funds will be harmonised according to the needs of the change and addition of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76936	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas. Mrs Vesna Pusic is in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76937	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, Director of the Department of Statistics, colleagues and colleagues. This topic is far more important than the Rules of Procedure. But obviously not registered as such because this is a plan that will collect data, in what way, by methodology and how we will see ourselves through that data. In addition, one question that I will open later in the debate is who and how these data will be used and what other data are being collected, and perhaps not within this three-year, or one-year implementation plan of the State Statistics Institute at a time when the debate on Cambridge Analytics, the agency of one of the world's mains at this point, let me also think that this is a little more important than what everyone here has become so upset about, because it is really defining the basis for us to observe our society, and what we will know about each individual individually and how we will use it. This plan is very important because it defines what data is collected about, and also what data is not collected about. It also defines the form in which the data are collected you could see if you were looking at a little bit of this E-plan and the implementation program for 2018, some data are collected classically, some are classical statistics, so it simply collects the phenomenon, some are surveying the relevant samples, some are some kind of extrapolation, so to conclude what the situation will be like tomorrow or what I know, in 5 years based on the data we have today. All of this affects, of course, what we will later claim by the basis of the data that will show us that they are facts. But we need to be aware of these facts, they'll be collected in a different way and they won't have the same credibility, let's say, or the same unwavering justification for reality as different depending on the methods and methodology used or the methods used to collect these data. So one says as much as the data is collected as it says and the data is not collected. Let's take some examples. Let's just say here, a colleague of our Mrak-Taritash mentioned an interesting fact that birth data is collected without delay by our National Statistics Bureau, which is necessary. Let's say the pay gap between men and women, controlled for the level of qualifications or the level of education. It's obviously an integral part of collecting statistics forever. Or at least let's say since the '70s when we even started talking about the subject. It is clearly not considered a drama or ideology, unlike some other topics that are occupied by the Croatian public. Education, the way education data is collected. Whether each post-school education is used as an indicator or as an indication of the number of highly educated people in Croatia or differentiated between universities, universities, it has nothing to say, valuable courts but shows us the accuracy and accuracy of the data we will be faced with. Environmental pollution, for example, whether averages are used or less geographical units are used to collect data. On average, this can be quite acceptable, where you can include on average some parts that are completely clean whether parts of the water that are completely clean and parts of the water that are terribly polluted and on average will be relatively acceptable. So, just as an illustration of how and why it is important to define and have a clear picture of how these data is collected. Employment, I can see that polling will also count here to say, so employment can be specific data about people who have permanent jobs, and then to those who have temporary, occasional, seasonal, etc. If you put everything on the pile and measure, as I know, 15.7. when everyone is seasonally employed, you will have a completely different picture than if you measure, I know, February 1st and differentiate between different categories. Migration, a very important topic for us. Relatively new. It appears in this three-year program. Refugee migrants, a subject that is both political and much wider than Croatia itself at this time for Europe and would say not only for Europe, but let's say that we are interested in Europe in the first place, extremely relevant. Are we making a difference and how do we distinguish and collect such data between migrants and refugees? Whether we are collecting these data based on asylum requirements, on the basis of statements, on the basis of some other standardised data, also a very important basis for not only to know what it is, but to be able to formulate and articulate state policies because one kind of policy towards people who come as refugees, another kind of policy is for people who come as migrants, who are likely to need the same thing in the future. Especially individual profiles, today people are already leaving and looking for construction workers in other countries in the region because they cannot find them in Croatia. So there are very significant reasons why this data is important to have, clear, demarcated and collected by the basis of known and recognizable criteria. The second topic is the use of these data. I mentioned Cambridge Analyst because of the company's big debate today that she bought, took, received, received, data, it seems from fifty million people from Facebook and used them in targeted pre-election propaganda in the last American elections. She doesn't seem to have been quite present in a referendum on Brexit. These are huge countries with very sophisticated protection mechanisms that we can't measure in any way, so to speak. So if they're able to do that in the UK and the United States, imagine what they're capable of doing with data in one country of 4 million people, of which there are probably 3 adults, so, who vote and appear in elections, buy and anything else that's relevant here. What kind of way are you, what are you doing with that data? From this plan you will see that there is not only the State Statistics Office, which appears, but there are several institutions that are called here, authorized bodies to perform official statistics. It is the administrative body of the City of Zagreb, for the collection of official statistics, Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, Croatian Institute of Public Health, Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. It would be very interesting to hear and see, firstly, how to standardize the methodology and data that collects these various bodies and to what extent is the Office of Statistics present in control, to say, or, in a controlled manner, in which these data are collected, processed and used. Using statistical data, the security of these data, the way these data is used will become one of the main topics in the time ahead. And I think it should be an integral part of a concept like this. Finally data that are collected and presented, and especially methodology, therefore, way, because you will get 75% of the people in Croatia, as I know, has a car, whatever, any data. You need to know how to do it or I don't know, use public health or use private doctors. You need to know how this information was obtained, it must be clear to you to know how you have to use it. I have a good example, the other day just here, I had a meeting here at the Committee Assembly, so I failed to participate, we had a debate on the report on the use of EU funds. That dear God doesn't understand. You take that piece of paper, you don't know what else those IPAs are, those pre-accession funds, how it's overrun in that famous N plus 3, so three more years after the last year you've got to use it first. Where did those funds we used start using after we became a member? What we applied for, what we got, what we paid for, so completely incomprehensible. That's inadmissible in my opinion. So for an average man, the data we get, they have to be understandable. We need to know, when you read, if you're on average intelligent, you have to understand what it says. And that's when it comes to statistics, you know there's a famous book how to lie statistics, how to lie with statistics. When it comes to statistics, it's especially important. That is why this whole background, therefore, is a way of collecting data, a way of presentation and a way of keeping and a clear and transparent use of data for us is absolutely essential. And every day, this subject, which seems so benign and has been with us for decades, becomes almost a central topic. Data mining, as it is called, will become the main theme of the future. I therefore suggest that we be extremely serious on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76938	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first replica, Mrs Grozdane Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76939	Dear Vice President, dear Mrs Pusic, that I think that we are paying insufficient attention to this subject and we all like to have data and we all like to deal with data, and obviously we are not all thinking at all about how these data comes into existence and what methodologies and how they are collected. So here, in this material itself from the beginning is very shrub, but at the end of the day when these 193 tables are given, it seems to me pages, then you can see what area is being explored, who is implementing it, how methodologically it is going and what it is serving. And there is, among other things, that there are the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Administration, so that's the answer, perhaps in terms of the question of who and how they collect the data. So everything that is methodologically set up should be done in all institutions that do so regularly, monthly, half-yearly and so on, so from these data that these institutions do on a daily basis, then the accuracy of these data that they then enter into the system is achieved. So with units of local and REGOS and the Ministry of Economy on the number of crafts etc., on receipts and so forth, and this gender where it is then said to be data about men and women, sex, the amount of their income and everything else. So once such a system is established that gives it through institutions any public health, any of these other institutions, then the reliability of these data is higher and then we can believe that really this data that we get from statistics can be used correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76940	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76941	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague, that's exactly what I'm warning you. So once it's established it's driving along the same, but the weather has changed dramatically and the conditions have changed dramatically here even when you have an institution that collects data is very questionable to what extent they're standardised. And imagine when you have here, I mean 5 or 6 plus units of local self-government that collect data that need to be standardised. And then you have an additional question about how these data are used. So in that respect, I think it's very important to have a clear picture for the different collectors that so I say, the data, to what extent they're controlled by the State Statistics Office, to the extent that it's one standardized form where we get as much data as possible, certainly not all the data, certainly everything is going on, but as much as it's possible to standardize data from these different data collectors, so to say, that's what we call solid facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76942	Thank you very much. Second and last replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76943	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pusic, you've opened a series of topics, but I think it's very important that this ends up with what you've ended up with. It is certainly when we talk about data collection, it is something that will have very significant implications in the future. Of course, by mathematics, if we look at applied mathematics in the form of statistics as applied science, it has its own methods, and it's probably, and it's also the agencies and the Ministry and the State Institute used, but in this work we don't even have any objections, it's methodologically done, whether or not it's polling, either like this, but what you're stressing, which is very important, who controls these data because of possible abuses. We have, of course, the Data Protection Act, but I'm going to give one example, in this report in the chapter, watch out for 4.0.4.2.4. I say, that's very extensive, so among other things says the forecast for the agricultural price index for 2018 more expensive DZS and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture has its own agencies. Look, it's very important data. Every piece of information has a price. The state must not treat this lightly. We have seen this on a series of examples of how the state treats itself lightly and not just materially. So this is about data that have their own market price. If someone gets past this to say illegally, then we have a market position better than the one that came legally. And when we're not talking about human rights or anything else right now, and especially here, you've mentioned the impact on the election, sure that the data that marks some trends in society can affect and that if someone comes to them, they can affect the result of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76944	Thank you very much. Answer, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76945	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Žagar, namely, what I wanted to achieve in this second part is to warn about this new situation that is currently being created, which is in the process of emerging and changing the whole relationship and status of such data collected especially when it comes to use and especially when it comes to influence as you mentioned, on the market. The market is such a mechanism that even some of what I know, rumors or some situation, I don't know, what's going on with Cambridge Analyticals has in one day brought down Facebook value for $6 billion. Okay, that's huge and it's all a lot bigger dimensions than what we're working on, but in our case, of course extrapolation, that's what you're talking about and projections can affect market behavior, they can affect a whole series of things, and they'll certainly affect policies that the state and the local community will take. And if the state has or the local community depending on where, for example, You withdraw poverty and say you have 3% of the poor because that's how they draw the poverty line, if you pull it a little higher, you've got 25%, or I know 30% of the poor, so you're going to direct your budget as units of local self-government, as just a small example.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76946	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on these agenda points and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76947	Proposal for a Programme of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018, 2020 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal of the Statistical Activities Programme of the Republic of Croatia 2018, 2020, please vote. I find that most of the votes 112 for, and 2 abstentions have been adopted by the Programme of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018, 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76970	And now we move on to the item of the agenda, which I will read whole: - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and 2016 for the purposes of national minorities The Reporter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 37. Constitutional law on the rights of national minors. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State Darko Nakic of the Ministry of Administration is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. In accordance with the provisions of Article 37(3) of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall submit to the Croatian Assembly a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided in the national budget for the needs of national minorities. The component and this report are also forms for the unique statistical monitoring of representation of representatives of national minorities in national administrations, judicial authorities, and the administrative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government, which give a presentation of the state of representation for 2015 and 2016, and is a comparative analysis compared to the situation of the previous year. During this reporting period, a number of activities related to the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities were taken, and of particular importance for the exercise of the rights of trainees of national minorities in 2015 were elections for representatives in the Croatian Assembly, where members of national minorities also elected their representatives, and elections for councils and representatives of national minorities in local regional, regional self-government units. My colleagues from the other ministries are here with me. They will answer all your questions in their area, i.e. to present those activities they had during the observed reporting period. The Councils and representatives of national minorities in their local environments still do not participate sufficiently in the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities at local level. The project, implemented by the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is supported by local minority councils, which aims to provide for preconditions for more active participation of councils and representatives as well as a project implemented by the Ministry of Administration. Support for effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Administration and the Office of State Administration in Countys in the implementation of the Constitutional Law will contribute to the participation of national minorities in the economic, cultural and social life of society, while preserving the identity of culture and traditions of national minorities. The implementation of the national strategy for Roma inclusion for the period 2013 to 2020 has seen further progress in achieving the rights of members of the Roma national minority, the implementation of activities during 2016 in the field of health care education, employment, housing of social welfare and the regulation of status rights, as well as the successful implementation of a number of projects at national level, and projects of civil society organisations, in particular at local level, have contributed to the further integration of members of the Roma national minority in society at all levels. Given the numerous challenges still ahead for the full integration of members of the Roma national minority, it will continue to carry out various activities to achieve comprehensive inclusion in all segments of society. In the area of the fight against discrimination during 2016, the office coordinated the process of drawing up a national plan to combat discrimination aimed at protecting against discrimination, and promoting and improving the right to equal treatment in the Republic of Croatia, and raising public awareness of the importance of knowing and exercising this right. That national plan was adopted by the Government at its meeting on 1.12.2017. There is also a good practice of organising round tables and public stands that have contributed to further promoting tolerance and countering stereotypes, as well as conducting different educations based on anti-discrimination. In the implementation of the Constitutional Law, significant resources and efforts have also been made, as can be seen in the fact that despite the continued trend, significant financial resources have been spent in the implementation of the Constitutional Law in 2015 and 2016. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia spent 148 million 640 thousand 839 kuna and 61 lime in 2015 and in 2016. 131 million 152 thousand and 781 kuna, totaling nearly 280 million kuna in these 2 years. This report was unanimously accepted by the Committee on National Minorities, and as I said, and here are colleagues from other ministries, so we stand, here is available for all your questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76972	Thank you. Mrs. Jeckov has a replica, they tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76973	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. So here I am, at this stage, intending to say a few important things that concern the education of members of the national minorities. So, in short, I'll just look back at the report that we had the opportunity to see, so these are statistical data, which refers to the number of kindergartens, secondary schools, primary schools and the number of students, all of which is an exact thing, well prepared. It must also be said that the state has made one legal framework, education by one, the other and the third model, and has allocated correct funds, but it is also important to say that we still have situations that schools in the east of the Republic of Croatia are therefore not registered as minority although there is, therefore, a clear model, a legal framework, the same thing as it was done when it comes to the Hungarian national minority and the Italian minority, any other, except, when it comes to the Serb national minority, the issue is still not resolved. In your report, I had the opportunity to read that the National Minority Council also referred to the subject. I would appreciate it if I could get an opinion on this subject from the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76974	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Ante Babic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76975	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Vice-President, the ministry, the Ministry of Interior, is there, culture, judiciary, education and the Ministry of Administration. It actually says how much the Republic of Croatia cares about its national minorities. I am pleased that this is also what my colleague Jeckov emphasized in this replica about a single legal framework for national minorities. So, this constitutional law on the rights of national minorities related to art. The 37th century 3. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to submit once a year a report on the spending of national minorities from the state budget to the Croatian Parliament. This annual budget spending report is being discussed for 2015/2016. the year, and that is, and is evident in the report itself in full, in one detailed way it shows that and for which the funds were spent, i.e. the financial support of NGOs and national minority institutions in 2015/2016. A year. Perhaps only at the beginning of the report should it be pointed out that when setting out these financial assistance for programmes are applied both in general and in specific criteria, and I will only look back a little bit and explain perhaps which are the general criteria which are actually applicable to the allocation of financial resources, it also says that they contribute to the improvement and establishment of multiethnic, multi-cultural trust, in particular to the criteria that associations and institutions that have applied for the granting of financial support must promote the values of the constitutional order of the Republic and of course that this applies to all 23 minorities numbered in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since this is a united debate, it should be said, in fact, in that nominal amount, that by spending on national minorities in 2015, 146 million kuna was spent, while in 2016 a little less, or 131 million kuna was spent. So about 12% less. As this report is related to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, it should also be said that it was also part of the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and here present representatives of the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Administration, MUP, Science and Education, Culture, the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, the Office for Relations with Religious Communities, the Council for National Minorities, as well as the Agency for Electronic Media and the State School for Public Administration. So, given the weather, we're only going to talk about this report in some of the things that are related to the findings and the recommendations. Equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities, which have seen an increase in the number of bilingual ID cards issued compared to 2015, the largest number was actually sought by members of the Italian, Serbian, Hungarian and Czech national minorities, is a significant increase in the number of proceedings before the authorities of the judicial authority, this should also be highlighted, and we often discuss this in the Croatian Assembly. When using the rights of the language and the letter of the national minority in the first and second-degree procedures, there was no real interest of the members of the national minorities themselves. The obligation to align the statutes of units of local self-government, which we have often talked about here, in fact with the provision of the Constitutional Law is largely met in 27 units of local, regional and regional self-government. The preservation of traditional names and tags, as well as the use of the signs and symbols of national minorities, the Ministry of Administration, and we have heard this, has not received any representation or recorded any objections related to the achievement of this minority right to preserve traditional names and labels. Raising and education in the language and letter of national minorities, more and more, as regards members of national minorities, involves learning languages and letters by model C, therefore, a model that is actually related to the language and culture of national minorities, and the Ministry has approved the formation of classes according to model C in 7 elementary schools and one secondary school. Significant progress has also been made in children of Roma national minorities and their inclusion at all levels in the education system, and this remains the biggest challenge in the Republic of Croatia as regards national minorities. In all three models of education and education, 10657 children were included in A, B and C in language and letter in 230 educational institutions. Cultural autonomy initiated by the Ministry of Culture through the protection of cultural heritage of national minorities, investment support programmes, musical activity, cultural and artistic amateurism, publishing activities, literary events and the purchase of books, the Ministry of Culture spent or spent 11.2 million kuna on 102 programmes in 2016, while in 2015 it spent 16.5 million kuna on 118 programmes. The establishment of a cultural autonomy programme contributes to co-financing of the Association and the institutions of national minorities from the state budget through advice for national minorities in the fields of information publishing, cultural amateurism and manifestations arising from bilateral agreements and contracts. In 2016, 1157 programmes were reported through a public call, and they were financed amounting to 31.4 million kuna. Furthermore, what I am particularly interested in, regardless of this financial data that we can say at the end of this report, but perhaps even now, so the Ministry of Science, sport 31 million kuna, Ministry of Culture 11, the Commission for Relations with the religious communities 14 million kuna, the Agency for Electronic Media 2.8 million kuna, the Office for Human Rights 14.5 million kuna, the Alliance for National Minorities, I said 31 million kuna, and the State School for Public Administration is 73,000, the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care of 2.7 million kuna and the financing of councils and representatives of national minorities from the budget of self-government units is 22.6 million kuna. But what I am particularly interested in in this report, and I am also talking about ethnically motivated criminal acts and discrimination proceedings, so I remind you that the National Anti-discrimination Plan has been adopted and that, according to the 2016 report, a total of 20 events have been recorded in areas of special state concern that have a characteristic of interethnic impatience, and in 2015, there were 31 cases, I speak with a letter and number 20, or 31. The state of these crimes is falling by about 14.1%, but according to the law on violations against public order and peace is also falling by 21.5% compared to 2015. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that there is a perception in the public space that, on these issues, the Republic of Croatia is an intolerant country and that there is great intolerance towards national minorities. We had this in particular in those reports, if you remember from the Attorney General where I emphasized that this perception is not good and that it actually harms national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and that we actually need to talk about the real data that is available to us. This data actually disproves it. We reiterate that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new National Anti-discrimination Plan for the period 2017 to 2022 at its session of 1 December 2017. This report also discusses hate crimes in 2016, and according to the MUP data here, 35 cases were recorded, in 2015 there were 24 and DORH handled 37 cases. The number of powerful convictions was letter and number seven, and I wish he was 0, but he wasn't, so 7. According to the Justice Department, one unsolved criminal case in connection with a hate crime based on ethnicity has been resolved in total by an object in which a liberating verdict has been handed down, which makes me very happy. I don't think I'm just happy with the acquittal, but I'm glad that the number of cases is very small. As far as crimes are concerned, especially marked with the motive of hatred in 2016, there were two such acts that were less than in 2015 when they were 12. No indictment has actually been rejected and 3 refuting or acquittal rulings have been passed, as did the previous years. A total of two judgments were passed, which is less than in the previous year when they were 7. 6 new cases have been accepted for criminal offences related to the violation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, one of these acts concerned discrimination on the basis of national and is one of the foundations of ethnicity. Three cases have been legally solved. In infringement cases related to an infringement of discrimination, 132 cases were received, in 2015 there were 125 cases, so a certain increase in the case, based on ethnicity was 27 and based on national origin 60. What I have particularly seen in this report is very little or anything written about bilateral co-operation, so this is one segment that we need to take special care of, and this is important to me because of better and better quality relations, both according to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and also towards the Croatian national minority in other countries. Therefore, it should be noted that the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia, signed bilateral agreements on protection of minority rights with Montenegro, with the Italian Republic, Hungary. With Austria, we actually took over that state contract from 1955, in which Article 7 actually speaks, guarantees certain minority rights. Now, the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee, it should be held alternately once a year, i.e. to work on these bilateral agreements and is obliged to consider current issues of interest for national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, but also for Croatian national minorities in the countries I mentioned. So for example, I'll just say I'm not wasting my time. The meeting of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee with Montenegro was held on 28.4.2015 and there were actually recommendations on minority representation at the state, county and local level, and in the bodies of the administration, i.e. the return of property, restitution, education, information and other issues related to this intergovernmental mixed committee. However, the intergovernmental mixed committee that was with Serbia was scheduled to hold its 7th session, however, it did not happen because the Serbian side did not stick to the agreement then and did not prepare the session. So, the Serbian side has been encouraged by both the ambassadors and the state office, but unfortunately this has not happened. In my opinion, this bilateral cooperation, which we need to discuss, between these states with which we have signed bilateral agreements, should be far more intense. It should be more meaningful, more expedient and should serve better and protect national minorities, both in the Republic of Croatia and from Croatian national minorities in other countries. Life is not static and every day delay in solving any issue of national minorities reduces, in my opinion, or deprives actually their rights and creates difficulties both in private and social life. I therefore appeal to representatives of all national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, from here to the Italian, our Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, from my colleagues Mr. Milosevic, Jekov and Pupovac, Mr. Bilek, Furi, therefore, Mr. Kajtazi, all those who can help in fact to make this cooperation more frequent, to be more intensive, mainly related to the protection of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and I say Croatian minorities in other countries. As far as national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are concerned, it should be pointed out that we must not talk about any ghettoisation or assimilation of minorities, but about respecting the specificities of each national community, but also about the need to integrate minority communities into Croatian society. I don't think anyone should be questioned about it and work hard on it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76976	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Vučetić was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the government's representatives, and I would just like to change the perspective of a respected colleague, he has expanded in part. Things should not be seen in the way that the Government does for national minorities, but when I see this number of representatives of the Government, then immediately in my view and the thought set comes how important national minorities are to this community and to the government. That our governments, our states, our public policies are gone without a national minority. No justice, no science, no education, no health care, no public administration without national minorities. This comes from that fundamental principle that every man has the right to life, to freedom, and to personal security. If we members of minority communities see them as minority, we have humiliated them for human rights. When we meet members of national minorities, we meet a truly magnificent pompous humanity. We don't see in them members of national minorities. As long as we look at things from the level of giving, costing or meeting with another who represents a minority, we still have them at language level, knowledge and social ghettoization. And we can't do that. That's why we're not invited. No one has been invited precisely because of that fundamentally impossed and zero-dimension dimension, which is that in our encounter with another we meet a man. In members of the national minorities, we meet a so-called And that's to realize that national identity is a permanent identity. That a man who, because of his identity, is threatened, is threatened by his right to life, to freedom and to personal security, and because of that, in minorities and minority communities, I always see human greatness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76978	Before I answer to Mr Babic, I would like to welcome students and high school students from Jastrebarski, meaning Jastrebarsko High School. Thank you for being with us and of course, their professor. Give it up! Now let's move on. Mr. Babic, here's your answer. ... There must be a Mr. Babic's answer sooner. [[You can't hear it.]] Mr. Vučetić's answer from Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76979	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vuketic, when I listen to you, it's as if I'm reading that papal encyclical... In fact, who speaks of a man, the value of a man, doesn't see him as a majority or as a minority, I'll agree with you, I didn't even say in my opening statement that minorities are our national wealth, nor do I think in that way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the value, precisely the value of man, but we cannot ignore the fact and in the original foundations of our Constitution it is said that Croatia is a country of the Croatian people and other national minorities that are numbered there. In fact, this is about the additional one protection, about the additional right of those who declare themselves a national minority in the Republic of Croatia, about the preservation of their language, culture, education, their customs, music, manifestations, everything that is actually added value to the Republic of Croatia. In this way, I agree with you, and you followed, I said in my final address that in no way do I want to, and I don't like to talk about the geyisation and assimilation of national minorities in one society in particular Croatia, but I want them to be an integral factor, and those who are representatives of these national minorities, primarily when I think about their political leaders, they have a greater responsibility to make this cooperation, both in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian national minorities outside it, and I especially appeal to the Croatian national minority in Serbia to be even stronger, to be stronger, to be more intense, and to say that these rights, even though minorities do not like reciprocity and do not like to talk about it, but also to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76980	It's nice to hear from Mr. Babic and Mr. Vučetic, and now we'll hear what Mr. Pernar has to say. Thank you, too. We're going now, we're moving on to the debate, we're moving on with the club debate. Mr. Boris Milosevic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76982	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. He would take advantage of the opportunity, when I can also talk about this topic, which is important for national minorities, to congratulate all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and primarily minority associations, which yesterday and perhaps today in the morning have managed to collect enough signatures for the European citizens' initiative... One million signatures for diversity in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's an initiative he launched... as a top minority organisation in Europe, which calls on the EU to improve the protection of members of national and language minorities, and to strengthen cultural and linguistic diversity in the Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This initiative would have to be able to collect a million signatures across Europe, that is one condition, and the second condition is that in at least 7 countries, these signatures are collected up to a certain, above a certain number threshold. So yesterday, the number of signatures that were to be collected was 8250, and nearly 9,000 signatures were collected. Another 90,000 signatures are missing to collect a million signatures across Europe. As the initiative lasts until 3.4 this year, I hope it will work, but here, I am glad that we in Croatia have succeeded primarily by pawning minority associations. If, as far as these two reports are concerned, actually, that's complicated into one, I think they're very extensive, rich statistics and they cover a very different and wide area. The report covers 2 years and unfortunately comes with a delay, although it is the government's obligation to bear it every year. These reports show the only real situation, do not hide the problems faced by members of national minorities, therefore, show a very real state of affairs, with all good and bad things. What should be pointed out is that the reports contain a number of recommendations for state bodies and I hope that these recommendations will be considered and respected. This reporting period concerning 2015 and 2016 was very dynamic and were essentially the challenges of precisely the atmosphere and intolerance in society, which was subsequently reduced but did not disappear entirely. As the reports are very, I've already said, covering a wide topic I can't talk about everything, but I'm going to concentrate on a few areas that I consider important. In terms of education, I pointed out exactly what my colleague pointed out in the replica, and that is the unresolved problem of registering minority schools that are transferred year after year, despite the fact that all the legal assumptions are fulfilled. Several, therefore, elementary schools in eastern Slavonia are not registered as minority, although these schools use model A, therefore, have their classes in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. They're bilingual with bilingual inscriptions. The obligations that these schools were made to be registered as minority were assumed more than 20 years ago, which was only confirmed after the Constitutional Law. So we have examples that Hungary and that Italian and Czech schools and that minority communities have minority schools, unfortunately we are still waiting with Serbian minority schools. I am convinced that this problem can be solved, that through one dialogue and a reasoned debate and respect for the obligations and laws undertaken, it is possible to resolve, but unfortunately, I must conclude that until today it has not been done. The result of such formal legal definition of schools is actually felt daily in their work, because they are actually prevented from developing any strategy. In terms of language and letter, I must say that there is still a problem of full application of the provisions of both the Constitutional Law and the Law on the Language and Letters of Rights, the language and the letter of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. There are also two conventions that regulate it, therefore, all unfortunately, still not respected until the end, so if we put aside the situation in the city of Vukovar, we still have units of local self-government, now we can actually talk about a single, one municipality, which has not brought its statutes into line with the constitutional law of the rights of national minorities, so it still does not regulate the use and use of language and letters as the law says. With regard to those municipalities that have brought this into line, therefore, their statutes with the law, therefore, have prescribed themselves the obligation to respect the use of language and letters of national minorities. In these units of local self-government, what results from this report we have a partial application, so we do not have full application of the law or the application of their own statutes, but their solutions apply in part. In particular, what I would like to emphasise with regard to the application of the provisions of both the Constitutional Law and the Language Act and the letter refer to the application of Article 10. The law on the use of language and letter, which stipulates that in municipalities and cities where equal use of language and letters of all minorities has been introduced, so that the Serb national minority's names must be bilingual. Unfortunately, I have to conclude we only have a situation in the Lower Lapac, so in the municipality of Donji Lapac, and in 2015, there was a bilingual panel placed at the entrance to the municipality and unfortunately cares about it. I think work should continue and I appeal to the Croatian roads to respect both the constitutional law and the will of the local community which is expressed through the statutes and to place bilingual inscriptions on the entrances of those municipalities that meet the conditions that they have expressed through their statutes. Another thing I would like to warn you about when we talk about language and letter is Cyrillic, which has a very negative status in society. She practically became unwanted in public space. I would not now list all the examples just here a few days ago was one situation inpleternica where in one elementary school she was divided, so the teacher mistakenly shared mathematical tasks in Bulgarian and Cyrillic letters and there was one whole alarm and parents and city administrations and media, almost one whole affair that had received an ethnic one, and in my view even an ethical dimension quite unnecessary. It's just an indicator of how much we have to invest in education and tolerance. With regard to treatment in the media, discrimination and hate speech, I would stress definitely the lack of production of programmes in the language and letter of national minorities, there is no red tape for national minorities on public service. This is one fact that we have been warning about for years, and the minute the members of the national minorities are getting and all the contributions are being counted, so the wrong parking is counting in the minute that the members of the national minorities are getting is, in my opinion, embarrassingly small. There is nothing less important than the lack of education organised by the Government's Office of Council for National Minorities every year to organise an education for journalists who are properly ignored and even journalists from public service, which would help to inform and sensitise the public about the problems of national minorities, especially as regards the spread of stereotypes and prejudice is discrimination, especially ethnic discrimination is present in society. When we look at the Ombudsman's report, the largest number of complaints about discrimination concerns ethnic discrimination. A survey by the Ombudsman in its report suggests that the majority population of Croatia sees as a multicultural society open to national minorities. So this is the conclusion of research, the views expressed by the respondents, and in this same study, the respondents said, and this research found that they have negative views on the Roma and the Serb national minorities, or attribute negative characteristics, which of course also leads to the creation of prejudice, stereotypes, and then discriminatory treatment. There were hate crimes mentioned here, and hate crimes are very specific crimes. These are crimes that are specific because of their motive for committing an act, motive is hatred for others or others. Failures to recognize, persecute, sanction public convictions contribute to the fear of members of minority groups who are in fact the most frequent victims to report such acts at all. According to data from the police report last week at the debate in the Assembly, 25 hate crimes were recorded in 2015 and in 2016. The 35th is absolute numbers that aren't large, but when we take the percentages we have a situation that's an increase of 40%, which is worrying. Another worrying thing is that the Office of Human Rights, which runs the statistics on hate crime, has not fully coordinated its treatment with the protocol on the treatment of hate crimes, and then the data differs from body to body, the data is different from the MUP, the data are different from the Ministry of Justice, from the DORH, and then we basically have some uncoordinated data. I would also like to say about employment representation, the percentage in these two years, so 2015, 2016 shows that the minority procedure has stagnated to 3.4%, which is absolutely inadmissible, i.e. a very small number, a small percentage. When compared to 2014 the representation was 3,49%, so we almost have a huge decline compared to 2014 and 2015, and in which year I don't think we're going to talk about 3, something, but we're going to start talking about 2, something. And the public, so the perception in the public is that minorities are employed through their national membership, according to the ethnic key, so they only call for the right advantages as minority members and immediately get a job, which is not true. So they have to meet all the conditions of formal law for a job in the state administration, show tests or achieve test results as well as others, so they must be qualified as others and only then be called to the right advantage. I believe here that the state should make additional efforts, not actually increase representation of members of national minorities anymore, but stop this fall, or their disappearance. Perhaps the new minority employment action plan, as we once had, would bring results, even though the plan when it was adopted was actually a failure, but just learning to fail and seeing what went wrong, might be able to fix the situation. I would like to say in the end, that although we are saying that the legal framework in the Republic of Croatia is good for minorities, I think it is not enough to have good laws, so that laws have impact, there must be and act institutions that implement them at all levels of government. Minority legislation and minority policy must be implemented multi-sectorally. For this reason, I would like to appeal to all representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who are here, to take into account the recommendations contained in this report and also to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I know that there is a report on the respect of the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages. When it ratified the European Charter, therefore, the Council of Europe document, the Republic of Croatia expressed one reserve relating to non-terroral languages. This reserve, in fact, affects the Roma language most, and I think we are the only country left in the Council of Europe that has that kind of reserve. And I think that when we submit a report and our representative explains it and explains it in the Council of Europe, there will be no pleasant situation, in fact that we as the only member of the Council of Europe have a reserve that applies to the Roma language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76983	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Veljko Kajtazi on behalf of the Club of Representatives of all national minorities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76984	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. Although the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities unanimously adopted with the delay of the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and 2016, I must point out that the situation is not satisfactory and that so far there are problems in all aspects of the implementation of the Constitutional Law. As a result, it is not surprising that we have significant problems and in implementing an operational programme for national minorities adopted by the government in August of last year, and the same report is scheduled for this month. In order not to discuss this in two years, as is the case with the Constitutional Law, if the inevitable and integrated part of the operational programme is possible, I would like to point out that when I talk about 12 national minorities that I represent in the last 6 months, we cannot talk about the implementation of the operational programme, but about the problems in their implementation. They are largely not operational and above all witnessed agreed implementation deadlines, all of which have been broken down to a lesser or greater extent. The reasons, despite the prime minister's best intentions for minorities to form an integral part of the government's programme, are as follows: implementing bodies, i.e. ministries, are not ready to carry out agreed activities. I must say that in certain ministries we also encounter resistance and questioning of agreed activities, which is paradoxical and unacceptable after the document was unanimously adopted at the cabinet's session and after consulting in a long process that the government's writing commissioner carried out. Furthermore, in some state offices and ministries, there is the best intention to implement agreed activities within the agreed deadlines, but in addition, as often as there are no means for the implementation of agreed activities, we find situations where there is no legal framework for the implementation of such activities. In the last year, I've done everything in my power to bypass certain specific conclusions or decisions, but that's not what happened. The best example for this is the issue of housing members of the Roma national minority and improving their living conditions through concrete interventions in Roma settlements, which I have talked about countless times, but such processes have not been launched in the last six months. The law on areas of special state care does not recognise the Roma settlements that I am talking about, and the process of amending and supplementing the legal framework takes too long and thus we question the implementation and constitutional law and operational programmes in the coming period. It is interesting that since the first strategic documents for improving the position of the Roma were adopted, we have an abundance of so-called. Soft projects, and this and other reports are full of such projects that do not bring the desired changes in the Roma community. I don't know if it's primarily about lack of will, not knowing the problem of the Roma national minority or something else, but it's evident when we look at the living conditions of members of the Roma national minority and the majority population that we haven't done enough when we talk about their life issues and that the constitutional law and strategies have not come to life at the level at which we expected it. Action plans and reports like this are documents that detect problems but do not carry a binding factor towards operators. I see the key problem of lack of progress. In other words, the problems we are discussing today will not be answered. The main responsible body for monitoring the implementation of all these documents in cooperation with the NGO is currently implementing the project to collect and monitor the database for the effective implementation of the national Roma inclusion strategy. The very name of the project gives us insight into a lot of things. The National Strategy for Roma Integration was adopted in 2013-2020 and is part of a wider European framework recognised in all EU Member States. So, in 2018, we have been collecting database data for the document implemented since 2013 to monitor its implementation. In other words, the reports we are dealing with are not accurate because, to date, we cannot identify the main problems of the most endangered minority group in our society. The competent commission to monitor the implementation of the national strategy for Roma inclusion was formed after two years of pause and labour, and the same reports with two years of delays come on the agenda, and so far we have not seen any concreteisation of the necessary measures, and for example, the operational programme for national minorities itself has not been discussed. Due to a number of problems, it is necessary for this commission to become a forum for discussion which will make concrete and binding conclusions to the relevant ministries because it is the only way to implement the activities. So far, this commission has unfortunately been a body that deployed limited resources and patched holes in those most urgent cases, especially for youth education. Without the need to discuss the fact that to date the Roma language is not recognised as the official minority language of the Republic of Croatia. Although the Republic of Croatia and UNESCO are in... Recognising the world day of the Roma language, I must look back on the position of Roma students who, to this day, according to my knowledge, have not received a scholarship to the current academic year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a shame to warn the Roma students for several years that they are giving up education for delaying scholarships without doing anything to speed up the process. This year, 20 students signed up for the scholarship. If we all advocate that education is a key process for the progress of the Roma national minority, then we can agree that in this process we have failed. It should be mentioned that the Roma national minority is one of the few who does not have a model C education on their own language and culture. If we look back in history, the language and culture is exactly the greatest value the Roma have ever preserved. The language, who won't be the wealth of the Roma people, is something that the state must engage more actively, and the similarities that the Roma language has with the Hindu language, is undeniable proof of the value of preserving the Roma as... the links of almost all Roma and their great-grandmothers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, it is necessary to take more concrete steps by introducing this process as part of a broader reform of our education, which unfortunately has become a political issue, rather than a matter of the profession led to the well-being and progress of our society. The committee responsible is also in the context of the report that we are discussing confirmed that there has been a reduction in representation of members of national minorities in the bodies of the state administration, which is precisely the part of the Constitutional Law, which is why minorities are under pressure to achieve some extremely great benefits. If we look at the table, in the reports concerning the employment of the Roma national minority, in the bodies of the state administration, we can see that in the tables is a key number – 0. The truth is, we have several Roma, but we cannot talk about the implementation of the Constitutional Law in that sense. The operational programme predicted that this situation would improve, but I must say that at the Ministry of Administration and Ministry of Labour and in the pension system for the process they had no understanding. That is, for example, the situation I mentioned, in which I questioned the ministries and officials and agreed and voted in the cabinet session. One of the best ways to increase this negative statistics is the Ministry of the Interior, which requires members of the Roma national minority to raise the level of security in places densely populated members of the Roma national minority, but we are limited by strict criteria for admission to police service which we also need to adapt to the needs in the field that I have already discussed with the minister. Speaking of cultural autonomy, the largest project for the Roma community is social homes built in several Roma settlements. But here, unfortunately, this is the third government that builds four objects, so it's clear at what rate it goes. The Minority Council, with the exception of the city of Zagreb, did not achieve their purpose. In addition to financial problems, so far they have no room for action in most counties, and are not sufficiently involved in the work of local self-government, as some kind of advisory bodies that warn about the problems of their communities. Financial representation and report cumulative for all minorities in certain areas, but when we share it with the number of councils and council members and add a lack of space for work images is not ideal. It is true that, in the term of office of this Government, the funds are intended for national minorities and that the processes of functioning of the bodies in charge of implementation are being launched after two years of absolute blockade and lagging. But it is necessary to take greater steps to continue the process, and in particular the operational programme, which has invested a great deal of time and which are the cornerstone of the cooperation between national minorities and the ruling majority. I would like to remind you that, on 14 November 2017, we referred to the President of the Commission a summary of the problem of implementing an operational programme for the Roma national minority and that there was no need for a reaction to date. The shift was not for other national minorities that I represent the Austrian, Bulgarian, German, Polish, Romanian, Russian, Russian, Ukrainian, Turkish, Vlach and Jewish minorities, most of whom are struggling with the problem of assimilation of their associations' sustainability. As the Alliance for National Minorities is known to co-finance projects of minority associations, and there are additional costs that these communities cannot bear. It's not about rich projects, it's about once or two cultural events. Given that it is very interesting cultural projects, I believe that other state resources should be opened according to minority projects, i.e. if the council co-finances a particular project, I do not see why it would be a problem for other ministries to step into these processes, because it would be a great shame if the small minorities I represent because of several thousand kunas of valuable projects stop their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76985	Thank you, too. You don't have a replica. We're going to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76986	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen. On behalf of the promoters, we have a report that we are considering each year and we have the possibility of a comparative analysis of what is actually going on in the process of realising the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. The report as such is correct, it is drawn up and prepared according to the rules that the Croatian Parliament has adopted for years, but unfortunately the conclusions of this report, as well as the conclusions of the report before, or in previous years, do not find their way to its application. In fact, as you know, we are very happy to read the the thesis that the regulations and the legal framework of the Constitutional Law and, as far as guaranteed rights of national minorities are concerned, are extremely high, extremely well-developed and set up, but there are a lot of problems in practice in application. And by that nothing has changed for years. The eclectic examples, of course, are of course, of several particularly vulnerable national minorities such as Roma as my predecessor Kajtazi spoke of, but are also escalating the number of cases that also bring chills into the functioning and operation of national and minority associations of some other communities through hate speech. The highlight of course after which we can hardly return the spirit to the bottle was the debate on the right on bilingual inscriptions, on bilingual markings which showed not only real rational and meaningful arguments, but unfortunately in the debate she introduced a lot of irrational, so I would say chauvinistic hatred. Because we have in vain explained that one restrictive approach to the right to bilingualism and bilingualism will endanger the rights of some other national minorities, so that some localisation of a specific solution can only make the situation worse and that there are examples of good practice that show throughout Croatia that bilingualism and bilingualism in official use do not produce any negative effects for anyone but produce positive effects and opportunities for using native language and letters for members of many national minorities. As you know in the upper city since the end of the 18th century, almost every house has been marked in two languages and two letters, both in Croatian and German, and in Latin and in Gotiva. And no one is bothered by it, so the story of the city of Zagreb, the German spirit that existed in this city during the Middle Ages and also at the end of the 18th century. And when we're actually advocating what the political topics of our political history are, they're not, say, members of my national minority in that sense of what to be ashamed of, but they have a lot to be proud of. Speaking of which, I'm going to mention an eclectic case that hasn't been solved for a while now, and where the Ministry of Justice, neither the Ministry of Administration nor the other competent authorities have shown almost no interest in solving this problem. It is a problem of the inability to exercise the rights that members of the German national minority in the city of Zagreb have to choose their representative. In fact, about ten years ago, the representative then established a working relationship with the person for the administration he fired, and after years of court proof, she received a dispute that showed that she needed to be compensated for any salary for a period during which she had not worked until the time of of of course a powerful verdict. What's this about? It's a dual system we have where national minority councils have legal personality. So they're a continuum no matter who the presidents are, who the members are. According to the special law, therefore, all members of national minorities where there are a number, because they are represented in the relevant number, are entitled to choose their representatives in the councils, or representatives as such without councils, already depends on how many they are and how many they are. In the city of Zagreb, however, the Germans have the right to choose their representative, but the representative was treated as well as the council, unlike the councils which the institution, the representative at any time guarantees with his OIB and its assets. And now the debt due to someone's failure 10 years ago has been welcomed by a representative elected in the 2015 elections, which is a crazy situation because personal property executions have been threatened. And now we have a situation that we don't have a representative and that probably for a long, long time until it goes to some fat old age no one will ever run for that minority seat in the city of Zagreb. I, as a representative of the minority in the neighbouring Zagreb County, try to make up for my countrymen in this sense in cooperation with local associations as much as possible but that is not the solution. It is public money, and in this sense, the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice would have to find a way to define and identify this difference in the treatment of councils and representatives because it is not a private trade, it is strictly a means of public and how it is prescribed through special bank accounts, therefore with complete supervision. Some of the counties, including the city of Zagreb, have raised this system to a high level and my Zagreb County would like to praise it here, the same as some other counties about the rights and positions of national minorities, above all the councils and representatives, are accounting for. They keep accounts, help their work, co-finance their activities and include them in budgets. What I'd like to say here is one general tolerance of hate speech in public space. So, a fellow Milosevic has already mentioned the space of public social networks has been filled with numerous cases of hate speech on a daily basis and a chauvinist omen. No one, but nobody cares about it, nor opposes it, when it comes to electronic publications, these are portals, nothing reacts to the Council for Electronic Media or the Competent Service, hate speech is interpreted in certain cases which, thanks to the police, only in the event that someone as a minority or one who attacks or insults as a majority member is extremely difficult and practice shows that local state attorneys reject police demands to act and, of course, IPSO FACTO means encouraging all those who use hate speech. I'll tell you in my particular example, in one case where I got about 2,800 different threats and insults, about 2/3 are with a chauvinistic omen and from that somewhere a little more than 200 messages are extremely anti-German where in the worst possible way is not only insulting my nationality but also my compatriots. But, well, I don't want to speak pro domo sua, it's just one of the examples that shows that the social climate in Croatia is not good. It's not good because the majority of the people are trying to impose a complex that is completely pointless through these chauvinistic savagery. The Croats are on their own, and no one will ever be able to endanger the state's self-loathing, independence and the ability to create their national identity in modern circumstances and in this sense the role of political elites, those who are publicly spoken, whose language is heard, and then it is recited that the national community that makes an absolute majority actually enables development in both spiritual and other terms that will relax belonging to the majority of the people because there is no and there is no chance that minorities in this relationship might be a remethyling factor more in anything. It is also the responsibility of political elites to feel free, open, inclusive and tolerated in this sense. And finally let me say that there is an extremely important initiative under way at the level of the continent, which must be of particular interest not only to members of national minorities, but to members of the majority people, which are Croats in the Republic of Croatia. It is a citizens' initiative that still has time to collect a million signatures for 13 days, it is about the Minority SafePack initiative, which can, because the initiative was initially rejected by the European Commission, force the European Commission to propose to the European Parliament a set of legislation to guarantee minimum rights to members of national and language communities, i.e. minorities throughout the EU. As far as we are concerned in Croatia, we have nothing to fear because the standards of such protection and promotion of rights are much higher than anywhere else in Europe formally and there will be no significant change for us, but there will certainly be changes in a whole series of countries, especially those that rise in permanent and traditional democracy and, in relation to national minority communities and language communities, create reluctance and do not recognise their rights. This is not just about big Europeans, it's about all European countries. Why is this in the interest of members of the Croatian people? Because these measures will be reflected equally on Croatians living in Austria, Hungary, France, Italy or elsewhere, especially in those countries where we are conducting a public dialogue to advance those rights when they become EU members. It is another 13 days to gather a million signatures, it seems to me that more than 920 thousand have been collected so far, in many parts of Europe is campaigning in this sense and I think it is our common interest that all and the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but also all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who understand how important it is for this set of human and minority rights to rise to a higher level both in the other EU members and for Croatia to be a positive example of recognising that interest to take advantage of it. I ask everyone who has this case and you who are here to just Google... /The speaker speaks English./... and to sign an online petition because you will thus allow the European Commission and the European Parliament to recognise the rights of national and language minorities in all European countries. Let us do this to be a good example, an example of good practice because I think we can be proud of some things, although we are never satisfied with what has been achieved so far because we always have to be in some way an example of what can be better than what we have today. In this sense, the Club of the Civil Liberal Alliance and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law and the cost of financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76987	Thank you very much, Mr. Richembergh. Otherwise, before Mr Milosevic said, we met our quota in Croatia, while 90,000 more are missing in Croatia. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica was sought by Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76988	Your Honor, Vice President. He's a colleague of mine. He's an esteemed colleague. You've been very positive about my opinion in the past tense. Not only are you and your distinguished colleague, Roma, so I am in my quest to get close to you, to understand you better and to find a common compromise, an agreement to agree, and so are those who are watching us. In the meantime, I became an ambassador to Roma, and I had several visits to Roma in the Croatian Parliament to see what the problem was. As the Croatian defender of the cornerhead, the Cromanians, the hills, the hearthists, to see what the problem is, do we not understand why we do not like to be placed in Vukovar under the cover of darkness by the police, which may not be legal at some point, nor are they appropriate to bring unrest and discord among those who have been through this long ago, and in particular to get close to you so that I understand why they attack you. I also became a member of Deutsche Gemeinschaft, the German Community of the Earth Association of the Danube Krautsks in Croatia, Osijek 1774. I'm very pleased with what I've heard in those communities, so I've managed to bring you as a majority member of the people closer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76989	Majority or minority, time's up. Thank you very much. Mr. Richembergh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76990	Comrade Culey, I greatly appreciate every effort you make to understand members of the national minorities. If you have any contact in the history of your family with the German National Minority, it is great that you tried to raise awareness and improve by joining the association that I founded in the European House in Zagreb on 19 December 1992 and which today, after 25 years of action, can proudly say that the headquarters or roof association of the German National Minority in the Republic of Croatia. I am very proud of all my colleagues who started it with me, especially those who, when we transferred the headquarters of the Zagreb Association to Osijek in 1997, continued to work on all the projects that we started with the bilingual newspaper Deutsche wort, German word, the International Symposium "Germans, Austrians in the Croatian cultural circle" which is a unique example throughout the world. Nowhere has a national minority ever organised 25 international scientific symposias a year after year and issued 25 chambers of work with these symposiums. It is a wonderful library that will remain for everyone to remember and our descendants to know what is the history of the minority, the minority who has suffered badly, which has the debris of its identity, which barely buys and will never collect because it has been destroyed by various actions, primarily since '44. Until '48. when there were 72 gathering and concentration camps for members of the German national minority in the then Yugoslavia and when the number of members of that minority that once numbered 170000 today in Croatia was less than 2000. Anyway, please keep trying to understand us better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76991	Thank you very much. Mr. Vuketic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76992	Thank you. Your esteemed colleague in your presentation, you have touched on an important civilization topic, and that's the topic that stands at the beginning of all our beginnings, that's how human beings are formed. The first discovery in which man stopped being an animal is the discovery of speech, then the clear discovery of the letter. He who denies another's right to speak and the right to a letter is before the beginnings, he is on that animal and animal. It's clear that everything that's human is worth turning into a culture. Only what has the power of survival and of itself, and what has the power of life can produce culture, and one who and one who deny life, deny and culture. Croatia cannot deny today that there are many authors of our culture from Romans through Germans, Italians, Serbs, Roma, but we cannot deny, therefore, the authors of that culture and at the same time cannot deny that it is Croatian culture and culture that is now working in Croatia. Because anything that would possibly be directed today towards cultural, according to writing, according to the language according to monumental or national identity, would be pre-civilisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76993	Thank you very much, Mr. Richembergh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76994	Thank you very much, colleague Vuccitić, for this. I would like to think so and thus understand the complexity of Croatian identity or Croatian identity of every Croat and be proud of it. I mentioned it a few times, and I stick to it, and I stick to it. The most bright stock in Croatian national history is the period of the Croatian People's Revival. It's a bright moment of what half a century, where phenomenal progress has been recorded. So at the time when the writings were perhaps less than 1%, at the time when there was no relevant national institution except the Croatian Parliament, as political. We have a movement involving the cut off Slovenian Fraz, one Greek, Dimitrius Demeter, the right hand of Ban Jelačić, his wife Sofia von Stockau is left hand Baron Joseph Neustether and Ljudevit Guy with his mother for the rest of his life writes in German because she is German, his father is Burgundac. Franjo Kuhar whose Franc Koh, Ferdo Livadić is Ferdinand Wisner at birth, and also Ivan Zajc, is Hans von Zajc. It never bothered anyone, because both Sheno and Demeter and all the others said about themselves, we are Croats, we love our country. Because there was no ethnic criterion of explosives, such people because of their last name, name, were not kicked out of a movement that built a national culture, founded all the national institutions and allowed Ban Mažuranić, that at the time of his ban, at the time of the demining of the military landscape, he created a modern state with ready-made good civil institutions that we are gardening today. It was all done by those who loved this country, no matter what they were called or renamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76995	Thank you very much, Vlaho Bukovac. Mr. Arsen Bauk, outside the SDP Club. Representatives' club, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Government officials, first of all, I have to commend, this number of government delegations on the government's report, it wasn't always like that. Sometimes I had the honour to present government reports on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities to the Croatian Parliament, however, as regards the very report on how we will vote on the report, we decide when we hear some arguments from the government's representatives. In particular, it is not about what this report says, but about what is seen in this report, both strikingly and left out. Therefore, in the first chapter concerning the equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities, page 8, it ends with a decision, i.e., the Constitutional Court’s reply, to the Ministry of Administration of 7 October 2015 on the provisions of the established decisions to amend the statutes of the city of Vukovar and then it turns out that nothing happened and it happened. Thus, at the end of January 2016, the decision of the Minister of Administration was again taken by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which was the Government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, and subsequently the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of those provisions. The committee was now chaired by the same person who is now chairing the session, I'm not going to point a finger at you so that you don't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76997	Please don't do Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76998	Col. Radin and the fact is that, then on this point, it has been almost 2 years since nothing happened, except that in the meantime, the entire National Minority Representatives' Club, including three Serbian National Minority MPs, whose voters in this case most of all became part of the parliamentary majority. So what we would like to hear is the answer to the question, is whether this report was left out of the slip, or whether it was accidentally missed, given that the administrations of the resolution ministry were changing during all these periods, so it is possible that it was not put into the report. Second, the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the request of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which is on 14 April 2016 The Constitutional Court filed an application for an assessment of the constitutionality. So it is not a logical and natural situation, that a working body of the Croatian Parliament should do what the Government should do in the regular surveillance procedure. Therefore, the SDP Representatives' Club has instructed the Assembly to submit 2 conclusions, to make a proposal, to draw 2 conclusions. It is one of the tasks of the Government to propose within 90 days to the Croatian Parliament to amend and supplement the Law on the Equal Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in that part which was ordered by the Constitutional Court back in 2014 and because of various political circumstances this was not yet done and the deadline was one year and the second was to carry out regular supervision of the legality and constitutionality of that act and that the Government was aware of whether it was its opinion that it was constitutionally and legally or unconstitutional and illegal, when it was already the opinion of the parent committee. Or to propose to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities whose leadership is now not Mr. Radin, but Mr. Pupovac, to put this request out of force, because the Government thinks that what they brought in 2015 is perfectly fine, constitutional and legal. I know that the theme of bilingual panels in Vukovar is a bit of an awkward topic for the current parliamentary majority because of its homogeneous composition, but you know once you release the spirit from the bottle and then support the collection of signatures for a referendum that would reduce the right, then you have to close that story behind you. Therefore, depending on the government's explanations on what we have concluded that there are also no reasons why they are missing and their opinion on what should be done, the SDP Club's position will also depend on whether it will support acceptance or just receiving this report's knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u76999	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, respected colleague Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my respect for the secretary of state and the representatives of the motionary. I, of course, read the entire report carefully, but here I would refer to only one part of the report and it is one that refers to education and education in the language and letter of the national minorities. Of course, we are starting from the thesis in the report and the fact that education and education in the language and letter of national minorities is actually one part of our overall education and education system and of course we know that the basic documents of education policy are also related to this segment of education system and that, of course, education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, when it comes to the Croatian education system in primary and secondary schools and at preschool level, is implemented under conditions and in a way prescribed by the specific programme of our competent Ministry of Science and Education. And likewise, when it comes to the higher education system according to the study programmes, so every single higher university and when we look at it globally, so I will not be talking about figures globally, figures and indicators in the report show that in fact, the Croatian education and education system is concerned that a relatively high degree of implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has been achieved in the field of education and education. A fellow Milosevic called for some of his research. I will also refer to research carried out within a major research project carried out at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb's teaching department a few years ago, and later the subsequent research that continues on this great research, all with the aim of pointing to the situation that we are currently in practice. So with all these efforts of the education system, so to achieve high standards, and I agree that standards have been reached, as regards the language and letters of national minorities, however, this project, which was carried out on a sample of 1325 students and students of our educational institutions and higher education institutions, was primarily aimed at examining the intercultural dimensions of our national curricula, i.e. the characteristics of national culture according to Hofstedov's so-called "Hofstedov". examine the state of education and education of members of national minorities, with particular emphasis on the specific position of the Roma minority and what is important in the end, measure the social distance towards national and ethnic minorities living in Croatia. What the results of measuring social distance then said, that our students and our students, unfortunately, show a very pronounced level of social deviation towards members of national and ethnic minorities. And in this sense, I really need to point out that there is a very great amount of additional attention to be given to the reconstruction, so intercultural curricula in our education system and also to education and education to achieve intercultural competence, both in students and students, as well as in our teachers and professors. Of course, that is why special attention is needed in order to achieve this goal, first and foremost to the initial education of our educators, students, teachers and teachers in this area, and also to their professional training that should be offered and necessarily offered in the area of intercultural education and education. And in this sense, in fact, all of this should be seen as one life-long project of each individual, in terms of lifelong education, just to affect the reduction and tolerance, hence tolerance towards all members of minority groups, and then the acquisition of anti-prejudicial attitudes, avoidance, ethnocentrism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism and all other so-called anti-prejudicial attitudes. “ism” in a culture that negatively influences the perception of anyone who is second and different, therefore, from the dominant majority and of course it is very important, why here we talk about the education system, because precisely, attitude and relationship with others and different and different backgrounds from the earliest age and, of course, that such value systems are acquired primarily in the family, and then through the entire education system by vertical, from pre-school, through basic and secondary school, and then to the character of higher education and, of course, now that we are talking about the concept of intercultural education and education in our educational system at national level as part of the concept of education and education, the importance of the concept of the concepts of education and education which, therefore, the importance of accepting and the importance of the importance of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of nature of the concept of the concept, the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept and the concept of nature of the concept, the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of nature and the concept of the concept of the concept of nature of the concept, the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept, the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept, the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept and the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept, the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept, the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the nature of the nature of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the concept of the Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77001	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77002	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I once again welcome the representatives of the government. I won't do it again. From that fundamental commitment that repetition is not a sign that we are learning, but the safest sign that we are forgetting things. And if this syntagma should be applied anywhere, then we should apply it now when it comes to this report, that we don't forget things. 'Cause forgetting gives birth to crime and forget giving birth to discrimination. That's why in this individual debate, I'm just going to sort of sum up everything that my colleagues have said so far, and that seems to me to be our fundamental commitment that this report is a report in which we members of the national minority mean, observe, view and appreciate as consciously, as the collective conscience of this nation and this developing country. It's a strong ethical dimension and our encounter with ethics. What does that mean? This means that our social, social ethics or that good or goodness in society is not available unless our national minorities live in a good, pleasant, and in a life in which their value will be at risk. It is precisely because we are meeting with our socio-collective self, therefore with our conscience, that we must, as a society and as institutions, make sure that this report is not burdened with what leads to the destruction of values, because this is the destruction of society. We must no longer read, no matter how many numbers are reduced, we must not read data from the MUP where there will be 24 proceedings, where there will be 47 state attorneys, where there will be 7 convictions, where of all crimes and crimes against national minorities 59% will go to members of the Serb national minority, where 2 Roma will be exposed annually to crimes and hate crimes that come from threats, to the destruction of things and to the posthumous act of hatred in which the peace of the deceased is disrupted. As long as we are in front of such data, we as a society need to question our conscience, we need to develop a new ethical framework because if we do not, then it is obvious that still in our society is persisting what Hans Küng, for example, fought against in the founding of the world's ethos, which is that our egotistic goals are not covered by moralizing arguments. This is what we see best in politics that those who have selfish goals and want to achieve something of their ego and the domain of their egotism are inescapable from a morale position. This moralist position when it has the right of the social public she speaks with a speech of discrimination, a speech of chauvinism, a speech of extreme nationalism, a speech... The second, by means of speech and by a strong desire to have no one else in the public, and that his fundamental right, the right to freedom, to life and to safety, be threatened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope this is the last report in which we're going to read the data, even if they're on the trail. The data on violence and discrimination are data that need to lead to a social stalemate but not a stalemate to be powerless before that, but to find new and better ways to deal with everything that causes discrimination. For example, in a mature society written by Martha Nussbaum, it is that at school we already cultivate children to enter positions and opinions that are currently foreign to them and not close to them. If from the earliest age... We master the methodology that we do not keep close, that at least in one such pedagogical methodical game at school, to become close to us then we act strongly, anti-discriminationally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad that, for example, 150 million a year, about what a good part of it stands out on projects from culture to projects related to education because without education, we don't just have a cultured knowledge, we don't have a cultured policy and what's most important for humanity and conscience, we don't have a school to stop discrimination and teach a man to get into the position of another being, not to destroy it, we won't be able to cultivate what's most important to society and that's a culture of compassion. Without cultured compassion, we will continue to read the report and we will be able to comfort ourselves as many numbers fall, but as long as we do not come to the fact that there is no discrimination in Croatian society, that there is no need in Croatian society to destroy someone in its biology and culture, we will not be a mature society. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77003	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for this debate. We move to the next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77004	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vučetic, spoke essentially of a man, about an individual, he was a minority, he was a majority, that he had the right to freedom, each individual for himself was an individual. But we here have to say that the attitude towards the minority of speech at which the civilization level is Croatian society, and I believe that at this point in reality, looking at this Parliament, is a minority in the majority. The minority is in the majority, and I believe that everything that needs to be done towards the minority, according to individuals and groups on the ground, can be done at this point because it is such a political picture for you colleagues to know that it is in the Croatian Parliament. Tolerance, anti-discrimination, the fight against discrimination, I personally can testify, I speak here on behalf of the club, but I can personally live with people who are a Serb national minority respected and their outstanding contribution to the culture of the region, in defence of the country, many have given their great pain and I am truly proud of these people and I point out that here, so much more proud of these individuals than those individuals are certain of their countrymen. But here when we talk about problems in the field, millions and billions that can be... One way or another, gentlemen, the fact that it's not on the ground like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These people live in very difficult conditions, these neighbours of the Serb national minority because we Croats are part of the same story, the same problems, and I am sending these mainly to representatives of national minorities and all those who are in the system of national minorities, that there are enough business and at the expense of these and their problems and these reports and many papers that can be torn apart because every year we have to repeat the same story, these people are very hard to live as their neighbours Croats and people of the Serbian national minority. I can testify personally because I live with these people every day for years and we share the same thing, but the relationship between trade policy and politics towards these people is unclear. Minorities are I repeat wealth, minorities need to be nurtured, they need all your rights, but the fact is, it's not like that on the ground. I was recently in Biljani, my colleague Vučetic was also with me, so these people are a dangerous cost, an industrial cost which the European Commission has also sued now the Croatian Republic of the European Court of Justice in the middle of a village where people of the Serb national minority live, 140 000 tonnes, no one has removed their finger. Which is carcinogenic, but their water isn't drinking, and their agriculture isn't working, so we just don't move anybody. I've been in that neighborhood a dozen times and with these people. From this end there are also representatives of national minorities, Mr. Pupovac and you, Mr. Milosevic, are close from these parts, not exactly, but there you are. I don't hear that voice, many representatives who represent themselves solely because they are a national minority. And gambling with these people, let's solve things where people live, to a decent life, to a culture, to the right of faith, to all of it, but the fact that politics except at this point is in most, what these people tend to do and what they think only about elections, that's a fact. I can talk about my place where I live, now I've talked to a fellow Milosevic recently, so literally people in Sinj where the Orthodox cemetery don't have access to the road, that's what I've talked about in this Assembly 10 times. So, basic human problems, they don't have access to the cemetery, people can't decently bury their loved ones. That's the problem. Electricity, no water villages, no water, so they're looking at the rivers, we're rich in drinking water down there, they're looking at rivers, they don't have water, it's a problem for both Croats and Serb national minorities and other minorities, of course, but in the area where I come from, that's how I live. Once again, all national minorities, who have made a major contribution to the defence of the Republic of Croatia, should be thanked first and foremost. Only Serbian nationals participated in the defence of 9,000 people and towards them, I don't know who represents them, but we should be grateful to them and bring these people out. Not to encourage those who came from Belgrade, those who encouraged hate, to send signals today that we must act. We know how to behave and pray to God, and I hope that the same conditions will be met by the Croatian minority in other countries, such as in Serbia as in Croatia. Unfortunately, what the Serbian prime minister says will not be so, and we are fighting and guarding the national minority. Because what rights national minorities have to say, the relationship of society... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77005	Dear fellow Bull, thank you very much for this final word and for your time. We have one replica, dear colleague Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77006	Dear colleague Bulj, I'm sorry that you weren't when I put out on behalf of the SDSS club, so you heard in essence what problems I've pointed out that come from this report and what actually does not say in the report the problems especially of the Serb national minorities are numerous. I was aware of that even before I became a representative, and I am aware of that even after I became a representative. The fact is that the job of an agent now as a public person who acts publicly has a variety of grades. I could say a lot when I say extremely right political and non-political actors are going to say, or they're going to evaluate my actions as a front-page. What do we need from those Chetniks in Parliament, and on the other hand, some moderate people who don't understand until the end of the minority problem will assess the actions of minority representatives as an ethnic businessman? But that's something that members of the national minorities, especially elected MPs, must deal with. I try to do my job honestly, I try to visit everyone, so people who are members of national minorities, Serbian national minorities, where they can come physically and also use this pay phone to warn about their rights. What I would like to say in the end, I would refer to this at the end of what you mentioned to the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian prime minister did not say that she opposed members of the Croatian people in the National Assembly of Serbia to have their own representative. That was also denied by the Croatian Radio Television journalist who spoke to her. She said it is not for every national minority to necessarily get one representative in Parliament because they think they have developed a mechanism to otherwise protect the rights and freedoms of national minorities, but that it can be discussed if the Croatian national minority believes that their right should be further protected. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77007	Thank you, dear fellow Milosevic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77008	My colleague Milosevic, I just wanted to point out in the end that it's not good for a man who used to call, so he was a Chetnik. I don't know what to call Seselj's assistants like Vukic and how to treat you representatives of the national minority as he treated Pupovac, our fellow parliamentary representative. Puppie should've voted on it. You should've done it like this. We all heard that. It would be much more polite if he was asked to apologize for not calling first for national minorities. He was to go to the Court of the Union to apologize to the national minorities who called for the slaughter, the burning of Croatian houses on the neighbours and that Serbia was at the borders of Karlobag, Virovitica and all those borders, to apologize first to those people. That's what you're supposed to tell him in the face, not me talking to his face. For what? Did he make these people poor, refugees, hurt people, their neighbors, and that's not what that person does. I expect you to tell them on behalf of these people, and for all the evil they have done, to tell that man Vukic, so my dear man, when you come, apologize to these people, and not to let him show you the manners, as I have noticed, that he commands you from Belgrade how you will behave in Croatia. Now, that's the political trade. So this store, so you apologize to people that he called and forced to do a great deal of evil. In this regard, we will agree that what he was saying in the Court of the Union if it were a disaster and that the triba would apologize to you, your countrymen, my neighbours, and, above all, to the people of 9000 people of Serbian nationality who took the gun and defended the homeland from Seselj and his assistants and Chetniks like Vukic. I've never told you you're a Chetnik, you're a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but don't be too much of an ethnic business, you're fighting for the people in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77009	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. In the name of the promoter, Mr. Darko Nekic, the Honorable State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77010	Thank you, Vice President. I thank everyone first of all for the constructive remarks related to this report, in all praises, there was that. But I'd just like to point out one thing. This report means 2015 and 2016, so when all these people sitting here and not taking part in this. Why am I saying that? Well, colleague Kajtazi called us not interested, so to implement all these projects through our ministries. I don't think that's true, because we've only been here for the things that have been going on in these two years. In the meantime, so many other things were happening. Now, while this debate was going on, I've been consulting a little with my colleagues. So let's just say I can only speak what happened from the level of my ministry, the Ministry of Administration. For example, in 2017, we implemented a number of projects related to national minorities, of which they can only mention one which is called support for the effective implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities that lasted and ended in 2017 and was financed from IPA funds. I'd also like to refer to the second only of what the esteemed representative Bauk mentioned. So, we got this half an hour ago on the table of these two proposals of conclusions that the SDP Representatives Club sent to the government, and when it comes to the status of the city of Vukovar, it is well known that the Constitutional Court has not yet received a decision, we wait, of course, for the Constitutional Court to make a decision, and then the Government will manifest itself. Here, a few of these things I wrote down, thank you again for all the remarks you've made, we've written everything down diligently, and I hope we'll make it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77011	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77012	Thank you very much. I would briefly tell the secretary that people in Vukovar, what you and the SDP think, often points out that the most important thing to them is to talk about Cyrillic plates. Ugl. The city of Vukovar becomes an empty city as well as 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia and is being insisted all the time and these wounds of the Homeland War are opening up. It's obviously an interest to always share Vukovar, always share the Homeland War and on these things. As a matter of fact, what HDZ did with the minority and voted on, it is the setting up of these bilingual panels, including in Vukovar, and when they come, that minority holds the majority, and then they don't know what they're going to do in that story. There are much more important things, life-saving things, all over the area, where national minorities live, no matter what they are, but the less difficult they are with the MPs, and they must not be considered solely because of the political positions of the minority. Because we need to know that in the Croatian Parliament, the minority majority, the national minority is the majority. And upon them is the responsibility of all things, and upon you is the responsibility. You don't have to be obedient directly, you don't need the Pope to be... You do not need to be, nor do you need from Belgrade the main ones who will order you to behave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're the ones who represent the national minority, with their life problems. As soon as you start playing ball at that moment you're done and that's the relationship and that's what the people on the ground feel. This is what I tell members of the national minorities. That's what your voters, your people, who need to defend, feel. I carry this in good faith. No weighting, national minorities are enormous and should be placed in a demographic society in place. However, weigh... And it is not good to create from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77013	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj, but I would like to remind you that you have replicated the secretary of state, not Mr Milosevic. ... Please stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and when you replicate, replicate the person you refer to as a replica rather than someone else. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Answer, please, State Secretary Mr. Nekic, if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77014	Only a few facts, therefore, were not present when High Representative Bauk asked a question. I just answered that question, which is related to all the chronology that the distinguished representative Bauk has brought out. So, I haven't made any political comments, but the fact that the Constitutional Court hasn't reached a verdict yet and the moment it does, so we're going to react to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77015	But you voted for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77016	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply. Comrade Bulj, are you finished? [[Intruder: HDZ and SDSS.]] Can we move on? All right, please behave properly in this High House. With this, we have exhausted all the debates, I conclude the debate and once again thank the Secretary of State, Darko Nekic, Secretary of State Krešimir Partul, Secretary of State Mrs Branko Ramljak, Secretary of State Zark Katic, Secretary of State Juri Martinovic, Assistant Minister Mladen Nakic and Head of Service at the MUP Mr Mamić Krešimir for the reasons of these proposals. Thank you very much, we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77017	Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and 2016 for the purposes of national minorities. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 and 2016 for the needs of national minorities is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 104 votes for four abstentions and one vote against the concluded conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body. The SDP representative club proposes to give the Croatian Assembly 2 conclusions, the first proposal of the conclusion reads "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer to the Croatian Parliament within 90 days a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia" number UV2R-4640/2014 of 12 August 2014. Please, let's vote. Excuse me, I would like to ask the motionary's representative, Secretary of State Darko Nekic, to show himself on the proposed proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77018	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. The conclusion of the Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament of 21 March 2018, which is in charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, within 90 days in the Croatian Parliament, of a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision of 12 August 2014. In the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is stated, among other things, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged, within 1 year of the publication of this decision in the National Journal, to refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, to the national minorities in which we will regulate the appropriate legal mechanism, for cases where the representative bodies of the Unit of Local Self-Government, fail to implement it. At its meeting on 23 June 2015, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a draft proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on local and regional, regional self-government with a draft final proposal for a law and a draft proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The draft final draft law, which seeks to regulate an appropriate legal mechanism for cases where the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government do not implement the obligations laid down in the law on the official use of language and letters of national minorities, i.e. obstruct its implementation. For the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, it takes 2/3 of the MPs in the Croatian Parliament. During the parliamentary debate, the law was decided to go into another assembly reading. As the parliamentary elections took place more than 6 months after the first parliamentary reading, without the second reading being conducted... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77019	Dear Secretary of State, time is up Comrade Bauk, here you go. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77020	That I'm not looking for a break and that no, I only have a minute, so if you want to allow it. So I think it's this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77021	Excuse me, is this a request for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77022	It can be considered that way, but we can solve it more simply by giving me a minute to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77023	But you'll have to come here, please. Anybody else want a break? My colleague, it's a break, I can't help it, there's no other form, colleague Radin, then yes, here you go. A fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77024	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77025	So, they have the right to take a break, but we'd have to go out for 10 minutes then so we agreed, if you're all agreeing, if you're all agreeing, that without a break, the clubs that want it turn around. We have the National Minorities Club, the SDSS Club and the SDP Club, here's your colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77026	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is one new Constitution of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, requesting a somewhat wider analysis than a five-minute break on behalf of the club of representatives. So, the government's argument is that the Constitutional Court had ordered the government to refer it to the Parliament, that the government had done it, and that when the Parliament disbanded that there was no longer any obligation for the government to continue doing it. Given that this position is in direct contrast with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament in March 2016, and that we are not opening any further discussion here, the SDP Representatives' Club does not request a vote or withdraws both of the proposals we have proposed and we announce that we will first try to discuss this topic on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, and then on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that we are not lighting the atmosphere of the so-called. ideological topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77027	Do you, then, perhaps, give up the others since they draw conclusions? No, I don't. Comrade Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77028	Thank you very much. Since I was looking for a break before you pulled these conclusions, I'm going to say something like you didn't draw these conclusions. What's important in all of this is that if it's new in some interpretations, it's also new in us and this great interest you show for bilingualism now for one simple reason, it's true that there was a procedure that led to bilingualism when the SDP had a government, and the truth is that when the SDP had a government, the representatives of national minorities had no contact with that government. With you, yes, with you as Arsen Bauk and several others. I haven't seen the Prime Minister in four years. I haven't talked to the Prime Minister in four years. There was no discussion of bilingualism but of nothing, and therefore our National Minority Club decided to vote differently. Someone would vote yes, someone would be restrained for the reasons of the autism we experienced back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77029	Thank you. There is one proverb “Whomever digs a pit itself into it ” so you can conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77030	And there's a saying that money is stronger than principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77031	My fellow Milosevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77032	Thank you. I would agree with one part of Mr Arsen Bauk's presentation that said this topic was too important to discuss here only the conclusion and pause proposed by the SDP club. I believe that we should take this issue seriously and that we should go not by forest but by other means, this means that we should discuss one and another conclusion on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, since the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities has actually been involved so far in the debate and when the Constitutional Court has made a decision or ordered the Government to impose within a year a law better regulated and prescribed the procedure which, when some representative bodies in municipalities and cities do not regulate their statutes in accordance with the law. For this reason, we believe primarily that this should be the topic and point on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and that perhaps the Parliament should discuss it and reach some conclusion. The Committee or the Constitutional Court reached this conclusion 3.5 years ago, unfortunately this obligation has not yet been carried out but since it has not been carried out that we need to discuss it and I think that the Government and this Croatian Parliament should be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77033	I would also like to thank my fellow Milosevic. So after this debate, I conclude and conclude that the conclusions of the SDP Club have been withdrawn and there is no need to vote, so let's move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77034	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on catering activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 280 Proposer is a representative of Sinisha Varga on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate, based on Article. 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Croatian government delivered an opinion. I call upon the motionary, respected colleague Sinisha Varga, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The colleagues from the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly, here we have before us a proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on hosting issues related to the ban on selling energy drinks, i.e., serving energy drinks to people under 18 and putting energy drinks in similar, i.e., the same regime as alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. In fact, the Law itself regulates a very clear and rigorous issue of serving alcohol and tobacco products under 18 years of age, and the thing is, in particular, this is about so-called. Energy drinks, defined as non-alcoholic beverages with food and/or physiological effects intended for consumption without modification and containing stimulants or tonics, the most sugar, caffeine, total content and all sources up to about 150 milligrams per litre, amino acids, such as e.g. taurine, minerals, vitamins, including vitamin B and other stimulating ingredients such as.../The speaker is not understood. They may also contain further ingredients such as gluconol octate, flavouring, colour and other additives. The term energy drinks English energy dink is a well-established and globally recognised name for this category of non-alcoholic beverages and they are a relatively new category of drinks in Europe and increase their popularity especially in the young population. What should be pointed out in particular is that the very promotion of these energy drinks in public media in public space during sports events and manifestations are all expensive de facto copy-pate methodologies that the tobacco industry has used to sell its products in time. And what's primarily a message that tries to impose through marketing activities is that it's cool to drink or use energy drinks and that in this way you'll be more accepted in society, that you'll have better sports results and that you'll learn better and be more awake and more expensive. And this led to an exponential growth in the use of these funds by the younger population, however, it is not without consequences. More and more scientific literature points to the very problems associated with use, so if we start from the very application that applies to emergency medical services after the use of energy drinks, so people complain about palpatia or tachycardia of the heart, tremors and tremors, excitement and restlessness, gastrointestinal disorders, chest pain, heart ischemia, dizziness and syncope, paraesthesia, chills, loss of sensation, insomnia, difficulty breathing, headaches and is also associated with the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and high blood pressure. High blood pressure is associated with high caffeine content and diabetes associated with the extremely high amount of sugar that energy drinks contain. And it's all expensive mostly what I've now listed is for the adult population on the body mass that adults have and of course it has a different impact on a minor child with a significantly smaller body mass index and also a significantly different physiology than has an adult. All research recently increasingly points to the very poor functioning of the ingredients of energy drinks on the development of child growth. Eminent professional articles, here I have more and more printed ones that point to a scientific methodology and published in the renowned medical articles are increasingly talking about the very bad influence that energy drinks have on the young population. What is particularly to be pointed out is that a significant number of countries in our area have completely banned the use of energy drinks, so we have Denmark, Turkey, Norway, Uruguay, Iceland, for a time France has had a complete ban now only limited sales, Sweden has limited that under 15 years of age they cannot buy energy drinks, Latvia and Lithuania have banned the sale and consumption of younger than 18 years and all of these cases have arisen after deaths or fatal outcomes of the use of energy drinks by minor children of their countries. And that's one of the basic reasons why this law is being proposed in the Republic of Croatia, since we've been lucky we haven't yet had a fatal outcome because of the use of these drinks that we want to prevent it from happening in the Republic of Croatia and that's why we want to limit it. Of course this is also related to certain scientific research conducted in the Republic of Croatia, e.g. The ESPAD research on smoking, alcohol and drugs also included energy drinks to children aged 16 years showed that at least 86.4% consumed energy drinks in the last 12 months 67.7%, and in 30 days 43% meant almost once a month the benefit of almost 50% of 16-year-olds. However, although it says on the can itself of energy drinks, it says that it is not recommended to use underage children. Obviously, children do not listen and consume it regularly, but it is also an explicit ban regardless of age that says that it is not used and mixed with alcoholic beverages, but regardless of the 16-year-old warning, 47.5% have been declared to consume alcohol in the last 12 months 37.3%, and the last 30 days 23% means more than almost a quarter of children to 16 years of age, energy is written monthly in combination with alcoholic beverages. And I believe that it is our great responsibility both as health workers and as a resolute ministry and as a Croatian Parliament to stand in the defense of children. For this reason, we propose a law that is actually very simple and through the amendment of several articles in the existing law puts energy drinks in exactly the same regime, so there is no need for any new provisions, education or any novelty in catering facilities, but only the hosts have an obligation that those regimes that have for alcohol and tobacco products for minors do so simply extend it to energy drinks. This should not be the case if it is catering facilities such as restaurants, cafes, bars, etc. and we are talking exclusively about young children, I believe that this should have absolutely no impact on tourism, nor on sales, or on the profit margins of the institutions themselves, but the long-term consequences of fatal outcomes or permanent disability or any problems with the growth and development of the child have far greater far-reaching effects on the health of the population and the health of the nation than anything that can bring this as possible could have any economic negative effect in the short term. Therefore, here, I appeal, since we have heard that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given its opinion, the committees have also given their opinion, here, I urge you to consider the subject, to read both scientific literature and to bring to court that it is still worth passing this law to protect the children of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77036	I thank my esteemed colleague Sinishi Vargi for this explanation of the final bill. We have one replica. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Varga, you pointed out in your opening statement why it is important to pass such a law and to ensure through preventive activities the health of young people. But what we heard and read in the explanation of the Croatian government, it is said that there are not enough exact data that indicate the danger of drinking energy drinks. Since you yourself were a minister, do you agree with such a finding and whether there really is no information in the world literature that points to the danger of drinking energy drinks in the minority population of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77038	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77039	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. I, as I mentioned before, have a opus of scientific literature that has already been published and is quite significant. Here, I have in front of me from October 2014 a review article which has made a review through... and other relevant databases, using MESH terminology, did research through the entire literature and Mr. colleagues... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from Portugal, i.e. he is an employee of the World Health Organization, which has been in the Republic of Croatia on several occasions on the issue of healthy nutrition, salt control, alcohol control and smoking,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] have published an article on the use of energy drinks in the Republic of Croatia and a review of the risk of adverse reactions and suggestions for policy change in countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Their conclusion is de facto, that it is necessary to adopt de facto, rigorous laws in the Member States of Europe, which is actually speaking globally for the whole world because potential health and excessive use risks have proved that non-acresion will have long-term consequences for public health, individual health and impact on children's growth and development. Therefore, it has been scientifically proven at the level of global data, European data, and specifically, the Ministry is called on that only the Ministry of Public Health of the Republic of Croatia has not conducted the research. I think it's a long way off when your data from the Bureau is going to come, unfortunately, it can be late, and the world's literature has already proven that enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77040	I thank my esteemed colleague Varga for his reply. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar answered the floor. Here you go. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Is it possible that a representative of the government would like to give an explanation? Here you go. State Secretary, Mr Tomislav Dulibic of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act. The government of the Republic of Croatia generally supports any justified initiative aimed at protecting consumer health, especially those aimed at protecting children and youth. However, before solving the problem of new legal solutions, it is necessary to clearly define the problem in order for the new legislative proposal to be seen and fully resolved. It is not clear from that assessment whether the applicant of the proposed law in question considers that the problem with energy drinks is caffeine or sugar content in these products. Similarly, the proposed legislation does not clearly describe the current situation and the problem which it wants to address in terms of energy drinks or what the ingredients of such drinks are a health problem. The basic principles of food regulations refer to free and uninterrupted food trade until it poses a health risk. In addition, the term energy drink is not defined either in Croatian regulations but is the usual description... binding names for non-alcoholic beverages with caffeine and taurine and other ingredients and can be legally placed on the market and there is legal uncertainty in terms of sales of exactly which products are prohibited by this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The following is thought to be the so-called before the adoption of a provision prohibiting the sale of so-called ‘sales’. Energy drinks need to be defined more precisely from which aspect of energy drinks are a problem for people under the age of 18 and to carry out further research. If the data obtained indicate the existence of an adverse health impact, they could serve as a basis for taking complete measures to ensure that the product is available with clearly defined content of children and persons under 18 years of age. Following all of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia disagrees with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity and proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77043	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Mr. Tomislav Dulibic. We have two replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I am not satisfied with your explanation for several reasons. When counterpart Biljana Borzana, our Europarliamentary encouraged the initiative to address the issue of energy drinks and use in children in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, and a colleague of Varga proposed this legislative package, the minister said he was giving full support to this initiative that is supersede and aimed at ensuring that our children's health is better. However, in the meantime, he changed the opinion and the explanation that you state, as well as the one written in the government's statement, is literally quoted as the lobby of the energy drinker's lobby, so I hope it is not out of the question that he is willing to secure additional profits from the energy drinks lobby, the minister decided to delay and transfer the ball, given that all the data that you are just saying will be explored can be found now in research that exists, especially in the ESPAD where it is clear that the use of energy drinks and in particular the mixing of energy drinks with alcohol in Croatia is above the average that can be found in research for young people in the EU. So I am not satisfied, but I am disappointed by the minister and Croatian government's view.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77045	Thank you, answer, Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77046	Dear Representative Jovanovic, I must reject these claims about any lobbying influences. I don't know how that happened. I didn't personally mention any of the above. I'd just like to say that we respect the rules of the profession because we've been consulting with the profession. for HZZ, it is true that ESPAD's research included energy drinks but also those studies included children over 16 years of age, we are now conducting HZZZ in collaboration with the World Health Organization, a study of Health Behaviour in School-aged Children, which will include children in the 5th grade of primary school, 7th grade of primary school, first grade of high school. It will also include 1,500 students in more than 160 schools in each group and we believe that we will receive quality national data based on which we will be able to bring the following measures and recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77047	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77048	Here's my thanks. In your presentation, you mentioned that there was not enough evidence. When the legislative authority in the Croatian Parliament adopts a proposal to adopt laws or amendments and supplement laws, I personally believe that the burden of evidence is on the part of the executive authority. The executive authority should be the one to prove that there is insufficient data. Although regardless of the fact, I, as a parliamentary representative, also brought out the data from the ESPAD, and from the very explanation we are talking about the impact of excessive sugar intake on the obesity of children and energy drinks have an extremely high share of sugar. These are all things, and in my presentation, I also mentioned the scientific research that was published. You're the one who needs to prove otherwise. You were supposed to prove there was no damage to the influence. You, as executive authority, must prove to us as a legislative authority the opposite and not that we must prove to you that something is factual or not. So, I'm still standing behind this proposal the way it is, the fact is that lobbyist companies have also spoken to Biljani Borzan and they've spoken to me, it's a little symptomatic that the dictionary that uses are the same words that you use, in a sense there's not enough evidence, but I'm not surprised that lobbyist companies are talking to us about selling to minors and the can says that they don't recommend selling to minors. Therefore, it is seen that this is large capital, not the interests of children, and I believe that we should insist on such a legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77049	I thank my colleague, Vargo. Answer, Secretary of State Dulibic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77050	Thank you. Your Honor, I once again reject these concerns about some lobbying influences, I don't personally know who is producing them to be imports or we've had contact with anyone who deals with them. As for the burden of evidence, I don't think it's in the executive and legislative power, we're waiting for what the profession will tell us, in this case, HZZ and we respect the position of the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77051	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77052	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, Honored colleague Varga as a proposal, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll try to explain in a brief discussion why we at the Independent Lists Bridge, we support this legislative proposal. I can tell you this, although I misused the Rules of Procedure at a committee meeting some time ago, a session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I asked the Ombudsman for children how she felt about this initiative. And she said she was also agreeable, yes, the truth is based on the ministry's response not for all, but for some energy drinks, to ban their sales to minors. So that's her attitude, not for everyone, but for some, which according to the composition, are proven to be harmful. I have to get fenced right away, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a chemist, I can't be like this, like my colleague Varga, I'm sorry that my colleague Ines Strenja Linic, is not here today, she's prevented because of other obligations, she's a doctor, so she'd probably say more. But what I can tell you, like now a man who, as a parent, as someone who is and as president of a football club, was hanging out with young people, saw how young people behave. And you know who drinks energy? Drinking and young. I think coworkers and colleagues don't drink that stuff, that's what young people drink. And in that sense, this law is significant. And what I now resent the head of the ministry, in his explanations, he can't say that they don't know who makes those drinks, it's impossible. Money is always a trigger, money is a motive. Why is there something going on? Well, for the money. Big money's turning around in this area. Of course, we can't blame these people, they're people who appear on the market, who from some other culture have seen that there's this kind of potion, they've done it commercially, they've found the market and today these potions are being sold. But if we go back to history, we can learn something. When I went to high school, it was normal for my teacher to sit at the door of the classroom and smoke a shake on the hallway and tell us the story of surrender. It was normal at the time, today it's unacceptable. It's a similar thing with alcohol, so we've done a lot of things. Why? So that some things wouldn't be acceptable in society, that there wouldn't be a high degree of tolerance. The higher the degree of tolerance, the more many, especially young people, think it is not harmful. And he's right about his colleague, Varga, when he warns the ministry's representative. Well, he doesn't have to prove it's harmful, so prove it's not harmful. So everything we use, and especially our children, has to be checked and we need to determine that it is not harmful to their health. However, research, a colleague of Varga, I read something on the Internet about it, shows that there is such a harmful action. And in the end, why would the Western countries ban the sale of potions? It's not likely from pure whim. Once again, if I didn't, I'd say I'm not going into this one in the metrics of things, I wouldn't want to use some concepts that I don't understand enough. If the ministry now considers it necessary to conduct research, but we need to know within what time limits, if possible. Otherwise, I suggest that the ministry review its position once again, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and support this initiative by colleagues Varga, we must mention the initiative of our Euro Parliamentarian Mrs Borzan, and we from the Mosta Club will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77053	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagaru, for this debate. We have a few replicas, dear fellow Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77054	Comrade Sagar, here is the fact that energy potions are harmful or unverified if it's the Ministry's theory,... She said it wasn't like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here is a colleague in the European Parliament, Mrs Brozan, this proposal would stop possible unfortunate events, which occur mainly in young people. And we see that even the big sports events, and even less, they sponsor alcohol, we see that the main ads and even the energy potions that can do the most damage, especially to children under the age of 18, you know why this proposal is not acceptable to the Ministry and the Government? Just for one reason, not what he's not good at, or maybe through some kind of change just because he proposes SDP or tomorrow Most or I don't know, it doesn't matter which political option, just because. Because this is not being observed through the prism of well-being, because the minister said that he accepted Mrs. Brozan's proposal here now, a colleague of Varga suggested this here. And here we should all vote together for this proposal. However, the ministry is manifested as we will see it, consider it, and this is about stakeholders, which is evident, which are producers of this drink, who, who knows, may be sponsors to the parties for the elections. And this may be their obligation, you don't change this in public to say that they're against it and that this law should be passed. Therefore, here fellow MPs, regardless of the ministry's position, to stop the damage, let one child lose life or endanger health, it is a big deal, we have the possibility, regardless of the political option, to support what is good, we have the possibility of the government to give amendments, and we MPs and this law to move on. And it can happen if it's better and it's changing. I don't see any problem here, and of course this law should be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77055	Thank you, dear colleague Bulj, answer, colleague Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77056	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Bulj. So, what I think, despite that and publicly, we say, let's support ourselves as a club, we personally as representatives, and we think that colleague Varga is not an unserious man. So I also think that we have institutions in our country that can verify some things, analyze, to determine the real situation. And when you mention interests, we can't ignore the fact that this is about big money. One of the companies, here's the secretary of state, if you don't know it, I apologize, I have the right to speak to the secretary of state, here I am telling you, so maybe the secretary of state may hear a company in one year that manufactures these drinks has a turnover of 6 billion euros. It's huge money, huge interests. True, we as a state do not have to act unseriously, however, we are in the first interest to protect our citizens, especially our young people, and if there are indications, and there are, that these drinks may be harmful, then they should be banned. It's not unusual for sports competitions to actually promote such drinks, after all, how many clubs under the name of those drinks are being promoted, and sports commentators do you know what they most often mention? So they mention the names of clubs, and that's how they keep advertising the drinks themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77057	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I will repeat what I said on the Health Committee where I presented my experience as a professor. So for 20 years I worked at school, I was a classroom. In those 20 years, I've gone on 20 prom trips, and when you go to prom class, then you just have to do a lot of parenting meetings because prom trips can happen. Well, of course, it's alerted to both alcohol and cigarettes, but as far as energy drinks are concerned, we have our hands tied here. So, on these trips, they use it even more extensively because they normally find it fun and they don't want to sleep, so they extend their fun, and that's when we have really serious health cases where children have dehydrated or have not slept, so that's another problem that we're sure about. But on the other hand, we have another problem, and that's the child's obesity. And those drinks have a very high energy value, a lot of sugar. We, I think, are in the EU at the top of child obesity, especially in primary school age, and that is another reason why this should be banned. Well, if you can comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77059	I thank my colleague, Sladolev. Answer. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77060	So, very briefly. A colleague of Sladolev, since I worked in the field before this, then in contact with children and monitoring we see that they consume it, they like it. The truth is, I can only say my position subjectively now, when that can opens up, it has a terrible intense smell that doesn't suit me personally, but it probably suits young people, and it's a self-destructive combination with alcohol, something a colleague of Varga was talking about and drinking. If you go out a little bit where the young come out, if you check it out, you drink it. They consume it regularly. And now the question is whether they're aware of the dangers they're putting their organism on. That's another question. In part, the Ministry of Health has to answer that question, and I hope that despite the fact that the ministry's representative is refusing at the moment, I hope that these efforts will be stepped up and that this sale will eventually be banned under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77061	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Sagaru. Next replica. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77062	Thank you very much. A colleague of Sladolev said something about what I was going to do. Comrade Žagar, the Croatian Parliament has made a decision on the announcement of the Day of Consciousness about the problem of obesity and these days, here is a colleague, Reiner, who participated in this decision, these days we were marking that very day. It fell off on Saturday, so as a Parliament, we may not have been able to engage more actively, so this opportunity is important to send another message that this is a major problem in the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia, we are among the 28 EU countries eight by thick, and children are seven, so they are even more on the ranking of negative life habits. Somewhere 27% of children have increased body weight, 12% is a threat, which in the long run means more danger than the development of cardiovascular diseases and diabetes and shorter life, and drinking energy drinks certainly contributes to this phenomenon, so before we said today that 86% of children under 16 are consumed by these energy drinks. And I want to make a special turn, and I'm going to say it on behalf of the club. So, just taking care of the children's health, a colleague of Varga's as former minister wrote this proposal himself. So, this is not a proposal on behalf of the SDP, it's a proposal from him as a doctor, and he wanted to appeal to consciousness in this assembly, to get support without talking about any political trades.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77063	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77064	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jovanovic. So surely one serious problem is related not only to eating habits, but to the general habits of our young, our children. Then there's the sport, and we just see that in sports what might have been mentioned by fellow Bull happens the opposite. Instead of encouraging young people to play sports, to move physically, they are convinced that they can be fit and ultimately slogans of these drinks and then actually lead young people astray. So we need to do everything as a society to encourage young people to move as much physical as possible and as healthy a diet as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77065	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Mladen Karlic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77066	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, assistant ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Attending Activity where the applicant in the assessment of the situation states that in general sales there are objects that can seriously harm individual health and thus cause fatal outcomes. However, they are not covered by this current law or some other, so it is necessary to regulate it, and it is about energy drinks. Of course, we are all for the protection of our children and young people, of course, and of all other residents in any form of means that can cause any health problems. But I think we're here so that this proposal might be a little too strict at this point to immediately ban, these energy drinks, non-alcoholic drinks that all have their own nutritional and physiological effects, some stimuli, means some sugar, caffeine, ginseng, guaana, various ingredients that have some purpose. Somewhere in '62. The first time in Japan, when energy drinks started to be produced in general, they had a purpose, in fact, to leave those people working on the third shift awake, not to do harm, but to keep them awake on the third shift so they don't experience some kind of problem that could happen and later develop, so there are now 150 kinds of different energy drinks. They're not so bad that they're going to cause a fatal outcome, that's what we've seen the proposer's exposure, at least for now not here, that they can cause some side effects, it's clear, it's also said, from tachycardia, heart beatings, right, palpitation, insomnia, anxiety and the like. Of course, it's one side effect that can happen with other means as well as larger amounts of coffee, especially with cigarettes combined, coke with cigarettes, so what I think is and what the Ministry of Health proposes, it's very important to do a real expert analysis, study, to see exactly what the conditions are, which are the diseases that cause these drinks. Of course, I think there are other drinks here, I don't know how much of it you've been dealing with, let's say one cedevita, a bag of cedevitate contains 20g, 17.9g sugar, and nobody's talking about it, it's an energy potion, it's something that's terrible, which has more than even some of these, these have about 45-80 calories in 100ml, while the cedevita has 370 calories, and the cedevita says that you can't drink more than two glasses a day for children, so nobody talks about it, nobody mentions it. Cola can also cause a fatal outcome in a large amount, so I think we might be a little bit, so this would be too strict right now. What I would agree with, which I think might be the best way to go in that direction, and here it is also mentioned in this section of the assessment of the situation: that energy drink companies are promoting, as the tobacco industry used to do and by selling, in fact, bringing on young people, especially by using athletes, in order to popularise it and to increase consumption. Now that's what should be forbidden for sure, that those drinks are not promoted, they're not advertised on television, especially in sports times, and so where young children are watching it. So in that sense, I would agree completely that they should naturally be reduced to as little as possible. It is also known from research that one vial of that drink is not harmful, does not cause anything, two to three vials cause this increase, the acceleration of heart rate, the pounding, the excitation in some way and, of course, further, but the question of how much, so we need to investigate how much to drink and, of course, find the best way to prevent it. It is further stated here that data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health says that 26% of children of the school age have an excessive weight, 11% is a threat, so either fat what they would say to me like this, I'm not sure that energy drinks are the cause of this. I think that, I'd include McDonald's and all those products that are in McDonald's, of those burgers that have about 450-500 calories, and then that fries, that coke over there, all together when I eat only one of those menus, it's half a day you're calm, you have about 1,000 calories certainly ingested or 800, you don't have to eat anything anymore. So in that sense, I don't think these drinks are calorie, they're not really the most important cause of weight gain, or excessive and obesity. I think a much bigger problem is this very way of life, an irregular diet in every form, not only, I say this fast food, but everything else. And I think that in this work we should work preventively to teach our families and parents, chefs from schools to all, how to properly feed and, of course, exercise that is inevitable, I think it's one of the same problems that our children come with doctor's certificates to school and do not do physical education which is very harmful to the child, only at that point is not conscious. So I think that this proposal is what the government, the Ministry of Health suggested, is precisely not to go immediately to the ban, but to define more precisely these aspects of what energy drink represents as a problem, that is, whether it is caffeine, whether it is sugar, whether it is something else, how much children are exposed to that drink, how much of it is spent. I think there's some information from around 2011/2014. about a million and 200 liters in Croatia were spent on these drinks, as far as the kids fell off, I say I have no data, but I don't think we can be too strict to stop right now, but let's do a professional analysis so we can actually see how harmful it really is, which causes and only then bring the right bill. That is why HDZ cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77067	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. Before the replica I would only invite all colleagues to avoid mentioning protected names, any products, any companies, either in a positive, or in a negative sense. Positively, the promotion, in negative again, is not good, so we speak in principle. Now let's go to the replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77068	My colleague, as a doctor, I'm sure you've seen it from that point of view. However, the fact is that in the EU a number of countries and beyond have banned up to 18 years of this drink, only because they brought it in on the basis of some facts. However, it is not good for children in Croatia to be experimental rabbits. And when evil happens, because of these potions that we mention here, which give wings and send a message to young people that they don't want to walk, walk, do, but that's all you drink and fly, and that's what the young ones up here are now aware that it's a lie. We don't want to bring kids in to be guinea pigs and then just react at that moment, pass the law. If there are many long countries that your colleague, also a doctor, listed here I do not see any reason why the ministry does not accept it, to supplement what you have said positively because you have said from a professional point of view because you are a doctor, plus a ministry, and to protect our children from those who promote this huge money through sports competitions, sports shows, even clubs are called by those drinks and energy and alcohol even, and we are talking to our children about sports. Obviously it is money, obviously it is an interest group, and I believe that we representatives should stand in the protection of our children, and also in the conversation, I am sorry that she is not a colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić who is also a doctor absolutely agrees with this proposal, doctor, parliamentary representative, colleagues Varga. Therefore, together with the amendments, we can resolve and immediately stop this possibility of any child being at risk of life and their health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77069	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77070	Well, here's the esteemed Mr. Bull. I would not agree, they are not, most European countries have not passed such a law, just a few, so in that sense I think we should think carefully, well do an expert analysis to see in what form, how, when children take those drinks. Of course we can't recommend them, and I agree too, especially not to advertise and promote working on such drinks, on those things that aren't completely healthy. They are not harmful in that sense if only a small amount as well as many other things, but in an excessive amount of course they can cause side effects and later perhaps possibly, of course, death outcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77071	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the following replicas, please welcome the students of the University of Vern from Zagreb who came here to visit us. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Varga. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77072	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, given that you have later joined us, I would like to point out specifically that from the beginning to the end of this debate, absolutely all the MPs have stuck to the subject, so you are absolutely informed. Regarding his colleague and his discussion, he mentioned the issue of advertising. I, of course, wanted to address the issue of advertising, but the area of advertising was regulated by a sublegal act, and I, as a parliamentary representative, cannot influence the sublegal act but is in the domain of resolution ministries. I therefore appeal to the resolution ministry to address the issue of limiting the advertising of these areas of energy drinks especially towards young people. In today's debate, we've heard how many times it's mentioned. This is about advertising energy drinks today in 2018 following the same methodology used by the tobacco industry twenty years ago, absolutely that scheme is exactly the same, absolutely the same. You use cartoons, you use text messages, you'll be cool if you use energy drinks. So we've already been through all of this, and we know the results that this has had on tobacco products society, and we want to prevent this law from developing to this extent that we have a tobacco problem and alcohol problem that this while it's still at a relative start, until it's taken up so great a wave to stop it, not to treat the consequences and appeal to prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77073	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative, Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77074	Thank you. With this part, I agree with Mr. Varg. Of course, I'm about to exclude any advertising of such products, but what Mr. Varga pointed out not now in this part, but in the discussion of type 2 diabetes, I'm not sure that in those young people up to 18 years of age to succeed in developing on the basis of several drinks diabetes. I think it's still something that takes a lot, a much larger number of years than high pressure, so I think that's one of the reasons why it's hard to accept this in this form than to do a more serious expert analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77075	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77076	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Karlić, you are also a doctor so I'm a little surprised that you've relativated the problem of drinking energy drinks this way. Here I'll ask you, if you had a underage child, would you let him have a Turkish coffee that you'll put six tablespoons of sugar in? I'm sure you wouldn't let him have that kind of coffee. And in energy drinks, you have an average of 18 spoons of sugar, or an average of 80 milligrams of caffeine and 27 milligrams of sugar. Therefore, it is not good to relativise because it is not the same thing and what I particularly want to stress, so from the earliest age, bad habits have been created, and unfortunately for all the research in Croatia we have generations that are preceding the EU by their bad habits. And they probably taught you as a doctor, as they taught me and all the other doctors, when some new treatments come, some new procedures, and maybe it's not best to be the first, but it certainly shouldn't be the last. We will not be the first to impose a ban on selling energy drinks to underage children because the ban has already been introduced in some EU countries, so why not follow their example.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77077	Thank you. Something wrong with the milligrams won't be that 27 milligrams is just. Grama. A colleague Karlic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77078	Thank you. I would not quite agree, I think Mr Jovanovic has exaggerated it now because the analysis of 10 to 13 tablespoons of sugar is available in these drinks, with some new drinks already having sweets that are not sugar and about 80 to 160 milligrams of caffeine. Of course, don't think I support that, though, I'm not up for it. I just want to say if we're already banning because we never get bad habits, you say bad habits are created, they won't be banned so easily. So education, home - to - house learning, preschool education, schooling means that these are not things that are consumed and that these are not drinks that children need to use. In fact, we will come up with the right solution, and the ban itself in the end if nothing can be found, and we will determine by research that it causes harmful consequences, or lasting adverse consequences to health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77079	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Culei, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77080	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Karlic, I think that the bans are not needed at least when it comes to Croatia, because these energy drinks are too expensive for most children of Croatian citizens of real mix, redbula, puzzle wolf and what not all of them are called those energy drinks that we can find on the shelves of the store and in certain places that are struggling to sell those drinks whose price is about 25 kuna as far as I know. So the children of Croatian citizens are the problem of how to knock these 25 kunas to buy a crazy wolf or as it is already called and drink it. That's the problem. We come from the same city in the summer months on the shores of our Bosut you can't find a single can, not a single energy drink, but you can find gallons and carnisters of five liters of wine, brandy, vodka and everything else. So the only problem with our society is that we don't have enough money for 25 kuna to buy that redbull, the crazy wolf and everything, so that after a drunk like this on Bosut spices when they go home at least something of quality. Our problem in Croatia is the energy drink that raises our energy so that we can drive awake to Zagreb when we travel by car. But it's not that bunch of meat that we get from war reserves, I don't know where we're from all over Europe and that we consume in an inappropriate way. And that's what I'd like to point out to those thin breads that some of us have recommended in our care for our health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77081	The answer of the respected representative, Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77082	Thank you, Mr. Culey, for this debate. Here's actually one proof this alcohol is evidence that the ban has not found the right solution to find some kind of surrounding path to, that they get to alcohol by 18 years. And so I think that health care education is something that is much, much more important to teach these young people that alcohol is not a drink that, as it is not an energy drink that will actually cause health, strength, not a better mind and everything, but just one healthy diet and physical activity that we should, I mean a lot more promotion and thus actually create a healthy people, especially healthy, young people in Croatia. Because I think that there may be too little work in this area, that it is still one area which is a rather abstract area of nutritionism and at all physical exercise how important it is for the organism, because man is a person who has to be constantly on the move, who has to use that energy that she put into himself in any way through energy drinks or through food, of course, that fatty food, the meat of the old you mention. But that's why I think that in this area, you should do a lot more healthy nutrition, healthy movement, or exercise as something that's most important for a healthy organism and later people who will give maximum of themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77083	And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77084	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Karlic, I agree with you. A ban can sometimes get the opposite effect. So, if we were to stop drinking, maybe only young people would see the attraction if it's forbidden and then consume it. But why are the bans good? Because they still point to the threshold of tolerance, they suggest that something is not acceptable and that young people know. Because young people, not only young, usually consumers don't need to know, are not at the same rank as the one that sells them. It's a similar thing to when they objected to the relationship between banks and clients. As a client, I don't need to know everything the banker knows. Even under the Law on Mandatory Relations, we are not in the same rank as the consumer. I'm glad you mentioned some other products. I bought the currant tea myself, and then my wife laughed at me, and you know how many fishes there were in there, I didn't know 6%. But it says on it that it's currant tea. We don't have any today, that's what the ministry needs to appeal to do. You know that in Croatia we have no definition of what milk is. It's just like when you come to a gas station and buy it, even though the people say they buy oil. You can't buy oil, you buy oil derivatives of certain quality. So is the milk. Milk isn't what we buy at the store. It may be a dairy product, but it's certainly not milk, although it writes milk neatly with no 0.9% or how much milk. So we have to work on these things, and why I personally support this bill because it leads to education, that young people see that it can be harmful. If there's any research that shows that harmfulness, then there's no need to hide it. Let's get this thing exposed. What I resent should only the representatives of the ministry say to the deadlines until they examine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77085	The answer of the respected representative, Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77086	I agree with you, Comrade Sagar. I think that's why it's very important that we don't charge too quickly and bring a ban, and we don't have any evidence of what the damage is, which is the disease it causes, because what's mentioned in the proposal is in principle diseases and old people. Type 2 diabetes is an elderly disease, high pressure is an older room disease. So it's not kids till 18, there's another guy. I say all these heartbeats and stuff, palpitations and all that, that's what's causing a lot of other things than caffeine, cigarettes, coke and everything. So in this sense it's very important to make a real study, to really see what it is and then to pass such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77087	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, as we have heard on several occasions this proposal comes from Parliamentarian Cynthia Varge just proposed in this way where he suggests it as a former minister, a doctor aware of this problem. And that's how he tries to get a general consensus in this assembly because we're aware that it's hard to get a consensus when the proposal comes ahead, for example, of the SDP club. Therefore, as a SDP club, we support our colleague's initiative and invite all parliamentary representatives to join this initiative because it aims to ensure healthy growth, healthy and longer, more quality life for all in Croatia. Unfortunately, we're not on the right track by the habits of our youngsters. ESPAD research, a survey conducted every four years, explores the prevalence of smoking, drinking alcoholic beverages, drugs among young people who are 16 years old. The last such research was in 2015, and in this study, with the habits of smoking, drinking alcoholic beverages, psychoactive drugs, gambling tended to be investigated, the tendency to overstay on social networks, the tendency to bet, and also, according to all that data, we can say that young people in Croatia are already on the worse side of the EU map. Here's just a few data, so 62% of young people up to 16 years of age have been smoking for at least once in their lives, and 33% of smokers have been that definition in the last 30 days. 92% drank alcoholic beverages, 55% drank in the last 30 days, and 16% were drunk in the last 30 days. 22% of the students tried some drugs, 7% tried new psycho active drugs. If we add this to this, we are among the worst in the EU, then it is clear that it is not surprising that we can also read from the same research that we are above the average and by the consumption of energy drinks. There have been several such studies and one study involving adolescents and 68% of young people from 10 to 18 years of age in Europe consumed energy drinks, as many as 18% of younger than 10 years of age also consumed energy drinks. And now if we look at the state of Croatia, we see that we are far above that average because among the students studied, so age 16 in that school year 86.4% said that they consumed energy drinks, where young people are more common than they were girls. And what we are particularly concerned about is that, with these energy drinks, 47.5% of students in the last 12 months have been combined with energy drinks and alcohol. If we add other data then we will see that according to the Croatian Institute of Public Health as much as 26.4% of children of school age have an excessive weight, 11.2% have threatened them. Two basic reasons for such results are thought to be identified by experts and causes in the sedentary lifestyle of children and malnutrition. Otherwise Croatia is 7th, as I said in Europe today, at the rate of children with overweight. Only 56% of children eat breakfast during the week, 76% do not eat enough vegetables, 66% do not eat fruit while exercise for at least an hour each day only 30% of boys and 17% girls. In this statistics, the unfavourable trend also includes the consumption of energy drinks which, as we heard, contain high levels of sugar that affect body mass, the development of type 2 diabetes, today, a colleague Karlic has left, so just worrying about the increase, the epidemic increase in type 2 diabetes, and in the younger age groups. Many medical scientific articles also talk about the impact of stimulant in energy drinks on the organism in growth and development, especially on blood pressure, heart disease and other health problems with lasting consequences that unfortunately can end with a fatal event. I'm going to repeat that information for parents that certainly no parent would give his child to drink Turkish coffee with six sugar cubes, and in energy drinks on average there are 18 sugar cubes and also as I said this time not to make a lapus 80 milligrams of caffeine and 27 grams of sugar is on average in one can of energy drink. Therefore, these are data that should certainly call us to caution and influence the prevention of what happened to nicotine and alcohol that have become legal drugs, where criticalness towards them is low and where, unlike the rest of the EU and the ESPAD survey, the number of smokers decreases, drinking alcoholic beverages in young people, precisely as a result of European policies aimed at reducing the use of alcoholic beverages and nicotines. Well, on this particular example, then, by limiting the availability of energy drinks under 16 years of age, we can ensure that everything that has happened negatively due to nicotine consumption, nicotine smoking and alcohol consumption. Therefore, I invite you all to support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77089	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77090	Thank you very much. Col. Jovanovic, you've told a number of statistical indicators, we have a proposal from Parliamentarian Varga, we have a minister who publicly said that energy drinks are dangerous, we now have a twofold view of the ministry's representatives who came really this time in large numbers, and not yesterday when the debate was also about a very important bill, there was no one. And indeed the MPs here wouldn't bother to think about us at this point if we didn't pass this law, we're essentially leaving the possibility that our children are still not even trying rabbits anymore, but we really have indications that it's dangerous for our children's health. Well, are we going to be Parliamentarians because the government didn't suggest it and the ruling majority are putting our children in danger? I think we'd like to talk about these laws really to be unanimous. We have examples of other countries that have banned this energy potion by law. But no, they give wings and someone full of pockets, pockets of these interesting lobbys buys that stop this law is any possibility of stopping it, of something happening to our children. Of course, in the implementation, it would be worth paying attention, this law to bring a sharp implementation so as not to accidentally abuse and give children under the age of 18. But no, most people don't even accept it. Well, here's the question of Parliamentarians. And when something happens don't give God to our children, then there will be urgent measures, it needs this, it needs that. This is prevention and this tribune vote right now, basically a law that's clear, a law that gives everything. However, most will not be voted by a parliamentary representative. It's on their souls because it's not their proposal. And that's the most embarrassing thing that's going on in this assembly. On children they show muscles and what power means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77091	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77092	Thanks, buddy Bull. There's no replicating your colleague, Varga, so I'm going to use what you said in my replica on his behalf. So, I am convinced that at this moment, my colleague Varga will withdraw this legislative proposal if the government will say that next week it will propose its legislative proposal in the same direction, in order to address the proposal's problem. I can simply Google the law from Lithuania and Latvia and propose it to the Croatian Parliament and it will receive our support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77093	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sinisha Varge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77094	Thank you. Here is counterpart Jovanovic from your past as minister of education and related to your exposure, so I would like to touch one of the parts that my colleague Katic mentioned, and part of your exposure from your former portfolio. Kolega Katic mentioned the term health education, not even said education, but rather used a health education that was a rock of confusion while we were in power and HDZ was in opposition. Now I hear from the HDZ bench that they're calling for health care. It's something I don't know what words I'd use, but it's specifically about the health of our children and the question of their health enlightenment. And as future adults, future parents may then be those who have a chain effect on the health of their descendants. This specifically mentioned the question whether or not it affects the development of diabetes. Here is the specific point when it comes to the review article, that is, all articles listed here. Saferty associates described the effects of energy potions on children and adolescents. It was published in a magazine... 2011 directly proven linkage between energy drinks and the development of diabetes mellitus, i.e. increased frequency of development of type 2 diabetes in the young population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So science has said it. Science has nothing more to add and say on the vast opus of scientific evidence we need in Croatia specific evidence to see if Croatia is anything different from the rest of the world. I personally don't think so. In all others, we are advocating child obesity and, unfortunately, that is something that is also related to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77095	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77096	Thank you very much. Dear Varga, yesterday we had on the Committee on Education thematic session a educational function of the school where it has just been emphasized that at school we not only gain competencies for later life and workplace but we adopt habits and some valuable courts that need to ensure that we are better people, because then Croatia will also be a better society, and ultimately we will live better, longer and better. That is what education and education for health as well as education for civil society and democracy also serves, so today we hear that health education is important in some way and recognition for everything we have done in the term of office when we have succeeded despite the numerous pressures of the “In the Name of the Family” association Željke Markic, who today opposes the Istanbul Convention, and so everyone opposed health education shows that we were right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77097	Thank you very much. I have to tell the truth before I move on to an individual debate, that he's never been in pain of health care. I don't remember anyone in this hall criticizing health care, it was just module four of health care. But good. You're the only one who came forward for an individual debate, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77098	Thank you very much. So let me just comment for a little bit. So it was a controversial fourth module called Sexual and Gender Equality. So history repeats itself. As health education with this module has entered Croatian schools of gender and gender equality, I hope that soon the Istanbul Convention will be ratified here. I called in an individual debate just to point out the importance of this topic once again, to point out the extent to which the merit is and our euro of Parliamentarian Biljana Borzana, who encouraged the debate on this subject. She also encouraged a colleague, Varga, to prepare a law like this. Unfortunately, however, we do not at the same time have a positive response from the Croatian government that we see again, unfortunately, on some other examples. So, colleague Borzan has launched an action that has also been recognised by Juncker, who said that all citizens of Europe must be equal, can't be some more and less valuable, as far as food safety and quality are concerned. So she proved that the quality of food was different for Croatia and some other countries, and today it is trying to level it and it is its great success. What counterpart Borzan has additionally provided through its amendments is 2m euros for establishing a food control mechanism and 800,000 euros for implementation. However, while Croatia built a great food control mechanism on the Borzan model, the Croatian Food Agency developed it. The economy ministry and Mrs. Dalic did not report to the competition. Therefore, Croatia will not be able to participate in the distribution of two million euros that were very, very accessible and possible to get a large share precisely thanks to the pilot of the Borzan project. So it is not good, as it is not good and part in answering my parliamentary question that I asked Minister Kujundzic how he will regulate the sale of energy drinks to minors, where he says the ban on selling will not solve much because in Croatia we see the fact that despite the ban on selling alcoholic beverages to minors, alcoholic beverages are sold and are very available. So it is very bad if the minister in the Croatian government points out that the legislation in Croatia is not respected. So let us also use this debate today to limit the sale of energy drinks to minors as soon as possible, but to increase inspection controls to prevent the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco to minors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77099	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77100	Dear colleague Jovanovic. Now you've reminded me of an episode of my work in the Parliament when I once proposed that despite the encyclopaedic knowledge that 0.5 of the alcohol in the blood was not what was harmful, that only after that there were effects. The legislator, at the time of our government, or the promoter of the Ministry of Labour in the Labour Protection Act insisted that it be 0.0. I don't see why here we are now tolerated to create addiction in young people because this really is the creation of addiction to drinks that create another atmosphere in life, so the feelings are quite different, the sense of power overpower, euphoric moods, etc. and why we tolerate it. I think this could have been like a few laws that were now in the process that these were rare occasions where we could agree and accept some opposition bill proposals because they cost us nothing but doing good to some new generations. And I think it's a sacred duty for all of us together to do good and to talk about what the effects of our work or what they would be. And from that title, I personally support this law, and I think that club GLAS and HSU will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77101	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77102	Thank you very much, Vice President. That a colleague of the Hrelja, as you said 0.5 promilas may not be dangerous, but 0.5 pulls to 1, so the other day in Varazdin they found one phenomenon, he was driving a car with 4.9 spills in his blood, he shouldn't actually be alive, let alone drive a car, and with energy drinks, one pulls the other. And unfortunately, this drinking of five or more cans or drinking of five or more alcoholic beverages is an infrequent and unique competition among the young people they film and are thus more popular on social networks and therefore this initiative goes in the direction of limiting it to people under the age of 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77103	Thank you very much. Now the Proposer will have the final word. Here you go, colleague Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77104	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you primarily for a very constructive discussion. I believe that we are in principle in agreement that this is necessary, however, it is a matter of boldness and moment when and where such a restriction of serving or serving minors in catering facilities is brought on. Unfortunately, today we haven't heard from colleagues here from the Ministry of Tourism, they took part in a debate on the parent board, but the fact is that I have had the opportunity to see in several places where energy drinks are served in a dedicated service tray with a bottle of vodka in the middle, four cans of energy drink which sources very nicely served on each side, although the can itself writes, is recommended, or saidly written above not to consume with an alcoholic drink. It is something that is obvious that without certain restrictions on the ban on legal solutions things will not walk because the challenge of advertising or large profits is something that my colleague Bulj has mentioned more times, is something that overcomes the need for care for health because the consequences of this issue are more and more dramatic, fortunately not an excessive number of deaths, but it is that the long-term effects on health, growth and development of the child are proving more and more in scientific literature. And that's something I think we need to raise our eyebrows and pay attention to, and we, as parliamentary representatives, to install into the Croatian Corps of Legislative Legislative Decisions that will limit the sale or consumption of such products by minors. The very reasoning of the law shows that since there is no production of such drinks in the Republic of Croatia will not have an impact on the industrial production index. The very population is fortunately relatively small in this case that we do not have a consumption very much in the young population, but these few children that we have by statistics that have been proven on 16-year-olds that consumption is almost alarming. 86% tried, almost 46% used at least once a month, and a fifth of 16-year-olds use in combination with alcohol is once a month. I believe that something that is absolutely alarming from both the health aspect and the legislative aspect, and we all have to take appropriate sharp and deliberate measures to contain such phenomena. Although I believe it's unlikely that the proposal will pass. Here I will support the proposal that my colleague Jovanovic said, that if the executive authority says they will make the same proposal within a week or within a reasonable period I will withdraw this proposal to make someone the ruling majority bearer. I will raise my hand for such a proposal safely and I believe that I will be able to influence all my colleagues to be similar to Lithuania, to, like in Latvia, that such a law for the prohibition of consumption and the serving of energy drinks for under 18 years of age be adopted unanimously in Parliament. So I listen carefully to everything about this discussion. This discussion was neither present in Lithuania nor in Latvia on the protection of the health of their younger population. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we have the situation as we have, and we will have to wait for a solution like this. I'm deeply hoping that we won't have to wait long for such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77105	Thank you very much. With that, we would conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-21-0.u77106	So let's move on to the next point, that's the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on hosting activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 280, Proposer is a representative of Sinish Varga. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activities, which is not supported by the Government as well as by parliamentary working bodies. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal has not received a sufficient number of 38 votes for, five abstentions, 73 against, so the law has not been passed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, but only one notice before that. Let me establish that, in accordance with Article 125(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the seventh session item is included: The proposal to launch the issue of trust by Martini Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted by 37 MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So that point is included in the agenda in automation. Today's first item is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Unpublished Information with Market Values, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 225. But before that, I saw a colleague of Sladolev's first and a colleague of Glasnović and a colleague of Maras. Replic or what? ... Well, a colleague of Willibor Sincic's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
