ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122275	Thank you, Mr. President of HS. Dear MPs and MPs, let this presentation begin with the quote of John Dewey, who said that if we teach children, students, in the way of yesterday, we're stealing their future. That's what we don't want and that's why we propose this law. When I accepted this job as Minister of Science and Education, I promised to introduce Croatian schools into the 21st century. This means to apply the paradigm of learning and teaching, which implies opportunities for additional teacher education, which means discharging curricula from unnecessary facts and directing teaching towards research, problem learning, teaching and work, but also involves new modern textbooks that follow such practices and methods. There are many obstacles, of course, on that road, and I expected most of them, but what I did not expect to be such a short technical law to experience so many objections, criticisms, obstructions, and in that sense I really ask you to pay attention to the essence of the law. When we prepared this law for the first time in comparison with other models, especially models of EU countries and when we talked to our colleagues, we realized that our existing Law on textbooks is the most restrictive of all EU laws. For example, colleagues from Scandinavian countries did not even understand our enquiries regarding the regulation of how to approve and use textbooks, because there the state does not regulate this area and all freedom and responsibility is given to school. Of course, our task wasn't easy, but it was among other things to study the practices of other countries, to see what was possible in our system and how to make a shift that could track the shares in our system. So this law is not meant as a revolution but as a quality evolutionary shift related to textbooks in Croatia. However, some apparently very strong stakeholders do not think that it is necessary to change stalking practice, justifying itself by tradition. It is good to think about what is the tradition that we should leave behind, which we should stick to and where this tradition is actually important in less destroying opportunities for our students to be competitive and have the same chances for development as their counterparts have in the EU. Because tradition is also the use of tiles and chalk, it's gone today, but it was once our tradition and it was very cheap to use tiles and chalk. However, I also have to admit that there have been a lot of warnings that this law should not be touched because there are too many interests involved in this law, but I think that our interest, and that was our team's interest in the ministry, is to take care of the students, to take care of the teachers, to worry about the protection of the state budget and the home budget, and extra profit is not our concern. So we don't need to worry about it, and we can't worry about it. So today when we present this law to you, I'm sure it's the model that suits our system the most at this point. I call on you, therefore, to really follow the debate carefully and to decide where in the debate you find the interest of teachers, students, parents of public interest, and where in the debate under cover there are interests of some other stakeholders who are not interested in protecting nor students, nor teachers, nor parents, who are in the interest of something else. What does this law actually bring? First of all, teachers have greater autonomy, the ability to choose according to their needs, to teach them how to talk about innovative ways of teaching, as well as the needs of their students, because in one class we know that Imams and students who are harder to follow from different, because they have certain difficulties and those who need and can in a particular area make a certain step that should also be possible for them. This teacher needs to recognize everything, but he must have the option of choosing to provide the student with materials that are individualized. What are we giving the disciples? First of all, methods and tools that are suitable for their age, but which in the appropriate and time in which we live, which enable both the possibility and individual approach and personalization. It enables parents to plan, trust in the market, with the possibility of a sustainable and fiscally responsible purchase of textbooks, regardless of whether most of that procurement is on the state budget and smaller on parents or there is another model. Society, education that is in line with the needs of modern 21st century society, respecting everything that is positive, which is a positive tradition in the Croatian education system. Over the past half of the year, the public speaking of this law has a lot of false news without information, and I will look back at some of them because it is important to understand what this law regulates and what it wants to achieve. One of me will tell false news is certain that this law abolishes workbooks. The Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school goes into step with time, new methods and trends in learning and teaching and gives more freedom to teachers in selecting working materials and creating a teaching process, because it is also the task of teachers. And the new paradigm brought by the curricula reform is based on learning outcomes that enable teachers to create this path for themselves, what teaching methods to use, what methods of evaluations and how to help each individual student reach and reach planned learning outcomes. The current system has defined textbooks and the complementary teaching tool as a mandatory set to work with, and the new law leaves the textbook as a fundamental tool, but the working materials are individually selected as I have already said before in almost all European countries. By liberalising the labour market, these working materials have not disappeared, they continue to be used but their diversity and quality have increased. The workbooks that are only used to copy a particular word from the textbook into the workbook to fill out the text or to describe on three pages the picture that is given, describe the picture of what you see, and to be in the workbook certainly is not something that the workbook needs to be filled in, and it is certainly only an incentive to work exclusively at the lowest levels of adoption if we observe any taxonomy that deals with learning outcomes. That's what we don't want. However, what we want are working materials that will allow, for example, virtual walking through pyramids, which will allow the student's name to write to hieroglyphics, will also enable the tasks of a diverse type that immediately enable and feedback the student to be aware of what and how to improve his learning and what to do and how to achieve certain learning outcomes. This can of course be both in printed and digital form, however, it should be encouraged that working materials are such that students adopt more forms, more forms of learning outcomes and competences that are needed. The critical thinking of solving the problem, to be creative, to be innovative because it is also recognized that the skills that are already sought by the labour market but which will look even more for the labour market in the future but which also requires active participation from every person in civil life, a democratic system that I am sure that you parliamentary representatives also want for the Republic. So we do not end anything because other educational materials are equally important for example in all those subjects that were now the center around which an educational process could be organized. However, it should also be said that there are cases where this is not necessary where the textbook is certainly not a means to achieve the outcomes of learning a particular subject. Here I will give an example of the technical where last time we discussed in the first reading, it is not an emphasis on learning but on the development of skills and therefore the techniques that will later benefit them in life. Also in music whether it's more important for the first class to read about music or listen to music, understand music. Likewise for art, whether it is more important to develop techniques, methods, and fine motor skills or read about it in the textbook. So that should also be different. But what is important is that teachers will be able to choose and benefit from what they really need, and the state will not impose anything on them. Teachers will be able to choose what is better and what corresponds to both their approach and their needs. I'm going to mention an example that by now we've had notebooks in information books, information books that the student had to type in what I shouldn't know how to do using a computer, type in a computer, or click on a mouse or type in on a keyboard. It's the contents of the workbook. Workbooks which, let's be safe the moment it's published, are already out of date. Then we had a lot of false news that this law imposes, apparently imposes digitization. However, this Final Proposal of the Law does not impose digitisation only opens up the possibility of a variety of offers and choices, the choice that is once again under control in a way that the quality is in the first plan and that all these materials go through a certain review that enables confidence in content, trust in methodical approach but the medium itself on which the textbook is not strictly defined. So those who want to continue to be able to use and select classic, printed and textbooks and other educational materials. And I am sure that the backbone of the teaching process will continue to be a textbook that will dominantly be in printed form. And I'm certainly not the kind of person who would in any way encourage or throw out a printed textbook from our schools, that was neither the intention of this law nor would personally stand up for it. The aim of the law is that those elements that function better in the digital media, as well as those that are not necessary to be in printed form, are not in the printed section of the textbook. As a result, the law also proposed a formula for calculating the maximum permitted mass that is correlationd with the class of the case. There's been a lot of talk about that. However, even now, the vast majority of textbooks are correlating with the class of objects in terms of weight, i.e. the number of pages. The safety textbook used for 1 hour a week cannot be as extensive as the one used every day. As well as this approach to actually be coordinated with the number of hours is not something revolutionary or new because, in fact, the senior teaching standard of 2007 was defined to prepare the range of textbooks in the form of 2 pages for 1 hour. So that's what we had bigger. Furthermore, the digital environment is an integral part of our lives and the lives of our children. Technology should not run away but teach students how to use technology responsibly for smart purposes and not just for fun. So you're using technology to learn. Because let's be sure we're not going to prescribe even now that all technology at school is forbidden to stop using technology. Studies 2 years ago show that in the EU but also in Croatia, 9 out of 10 young people use the Internet every day, 9 out of 10 and in the total population, meaning that we who are not in that age group are included in that group are 5 out of 10. And it is one of the largest digital gaps that can be seen both in Croatia and in the EU. And we do not have the right to access and access information whether we can give very clear instructions and work on how our students, how students will certainly behave on the Internet and this is a very important topic, 1/4 of the information curricula which is now for the first time a mandatory subject with a new curricula introduced to Croatian schools. So security on the Internet, how to behave, how to use the content, how to evaluate the reliability of information, means that we have everything now in the new curricula of information, that's what's important and not a ban because by banning it, we can't solve anything as well as in the Croatian language according to new proposals, there's a much greater range of media culture where we're also going to talk about it because let's not forget it, an integral part of our lives for young people and I'm going to freely say, a much more integral part and much more using the Internet, but what we want to be meaningful, that it is in a way for them to learn and be secure on the Internet. Of course, some wonder if this digitization pleases someone, so who would it be if these are the same publishers who are now doing printed books the same ones who are going to work and digital ones, who are already doing digital materials. There is, of course, a difference between them, there are some who are more ready to deal with the challenges of a new time, they have come to grips with IV. The industrial revolution and others filled the warehouses with books that may be more appropriate in the 19th century. But that shouldn't be our concern. Also one of the false news that appears in our media that there are countries that have banned, so advanced states that have banned digitisation in schools. That's trust me, false news. An example of France that prohibits the use of cell phones in the classroom. Well, we can't use the phone in class, so it's prescribed by the rulebook, so it can't be used in a way that the teaching can be disrupted, but if the teacher decides it's supposed to use technology in the course, yes, and that's the difference. Let's get back to France. So as far as France is concerned, this same France that banned the use of cell phones in follow-up is developing its digital repository containing digital educational content for 8 subjects, complete digital content for 8 subjects. French, mathematics, history, geography, science, three sides of language. This virtual repository consists of interactive multimedia content which, apart from text, images, sounds still has video and exercises and activities, 3D animations, simulations, expansion of reality, virtual reality, games etc. So that's what we want, for our students to be available in a controlled, meaningful methodically well-treated form. So these materials are designed to facilitate practices with respect for the educational freedoms of the teacher and are directly linked to the acquisition and knowledge and skills defined in the programmes and thus, we in a controlled manner as well as France, can introduce our teaching of digital content. So for such a venture, France has allocated 2 billion euros. Just as Germany has allocated 5 billion euros to equip their schools and is ready to change the Constitution to allow such equipment and such services to be available to all schools in Croatia and we are talking about whether a technical law that will give our students equal opportunities should be changed. So digitization isn't about the future, it's already there. There was already a revolution in education once when they disappeared using what I said, tiles and chalk and moved on to digital books, until then everything was directed to adopt certain knowledge by oral surrender and learning. And then the teacher didn't disappear from the process, the teacher was always and will be the bearer of our educational process. It has not been replaced by a printed book, it will not be replaced by digital educational content, however, it should be said that the teacher cannot maintain his position by holding an ex-Catedra course while he directs the students to drum by heart from the thick books of the more appropriate 19th century, that should also be said. And over the past year, we have allocated far more resources to the education and education of teachers than to any school equipment. Only one piece of information, from the 155 million kuna project for educational reform, 80% is for teachers and teacher education, 20% is for equipment, this should be kept in mind. So the teacher is still the one who needs to invest the most, and that's what we're doing. A few more words about the fight for free textbooks, as well as how. So we have this topic every 10 years and every 10 years in Croatia we try to introduce free textbooks that then last a year or two. However, it is necessary to regulate it in a way that we know how much it costs, who will pay for it, and that what is paid for, we have a quality for money and not to have, or some have extra profits. This is also the reason why we have put the most permitted price of textbooks into the law, until now, the most permitted price of textbooks has been defined by the minister, regulated through the Committees, through negotiations, harmonising with representatives of publishers. In this way, by introducing the formula into a law that directly depends on the standard of citizens through the media pay for which we must nevertheless say that it is more stable than the average and significantly lower than the average, the state for the first time clearly provides the parameters for long-term financing, and for publishers clear guidelines for development. We believe that the calculation is good, we have completed the coefficients between the two readings, and we have observed that they cannot depend only on the number of hours of mandatory items, but also on the number of objects themselves. And the flat-rate remarks that it's better to have the formula in the Regulation than in the Law, they're just often, just running away from taking responsibility. If we agree that this regulation is good, and there is no reason not to believe it, for example, the Competition Protection Agency said it is not against competition to prescribe the highest price allowed in the law, because of course everyone can offer even lower prices, and we expect that offers and lower prices. I propose that we adopt this Law and begin to create a system of co-financing for textbooks that will be long-term sustainable and fiscally predictable. And in this way we have a model and a multi-year use of textbooks that enables us to make this bill possible. We also give schools the opportunity to enrich their collections, to have textbooks, possibly in that model and to own textbooks and thus have the sustainability of models, not to have a model that will be worth one or two years. According to our calculations, the total price of all the textbooks of mandatory subjects in elementary school would be around 165 million kuna. If we weren't, if we didn't have formulas in the law, if we didn't have the most price regulation, we wouldn't have been able to predict it, but at the same time when we entered this model, what happened 10 years ago would happen, and that's an important increase in prices and rising prices in the meantime. Finally, this Law imposes nothing on anyone, but opens up the possibility of selecting, individual access to students, and easier adaptation to students, for example with special needs, as I explained, because one click on a text that is legible, the average student changes its fund and becomes understandable to students with dyslexia. An increase in letters, contrast adjustment enables students with visual problems, easier memory and easier follow-up. Many researches also show that the best results are achieved by a combination of printed materials and digital content, i.e. in a class where it is taught live, that certain forms are also used, meaning technology of assisted learning, which is called the blinded learning or mix learning or high bride learning. And that's what we encourage by this law. We do not eliminate the role of teachers, but strengthen them, stress his autonomy, or prescribe what form of material he will use. So, degree and share, the digital content will be chosen by the teacher himself. And finally what do I sum up, what does this law actually allow? Above all, better-quality textbooks that follow modern pedagogical practices and motivate students. Second, more freedom of choice for both teachers and students. Third, the protection of the home budget, but also the state budget. Fourthly, dispensing students from unnecessary facts, but allowing everything that is important, which is fundamentally clear in the textbook, but that textbooks are such as to encourage creative approach, and material, innovative teaching methods, to also enable trouble and research classes. And I'm sure that in that sense is this bill, as much as it is a small law with 20 articles, a big step towards school as we need to have and what our students deserve to have the same opportunities in their later lives, both in personal and in competition on the labour market, and give all of us the opportunity to take into account that this is a very large demographic measure because quality school, quality learning, teaching, certainly what is important to young families when they decide whether or not to participate in or live in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122276	I thank the minister. We have 23 replicas, so we're going with colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122277	Your Honors Minister. I can't believe I heard you go against the ex-Catedra approach in class, and you've got us here, exactly half an hour, ex-Catedra convincing us that the 19th century ex-Catedra, record, books, textbook, although I must say in the end you've mentioned several times the textbooks. And all the time, I had the impression that I was in IT class. Your approach is 21st century, modern society, information, technology, progress, media culture, virtual reality, quality. You're talking about the corricul, you're actually saying the wrong thing, you don't even know the Croatian word curiculum. Well, I can't trust the Ministers for what you're doing. Mostly Minister, this is a PR venture of your ministry that has obviously failed, which has obviously failed, you just here's how much you try to move on with your PR project, it just doesn't go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122278	Here's your answer. Wait a minute, turn off your colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122279	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122280	Okay. Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122281	Here, first of all, I welcome our students who are following us here and, of course, the first time in the House we introduce some other way of debate, where it is possible to have a controversy, a discussion, a opposition to arguments that, not that half an hour at the beginning of the debate, I will use that. And I think that you should also use little modern technology to answer these questions that you're now asking you to find, not to use false news or semi-information, because one of the topics that, therefore, is that when we discuss that we are opposed to arguments and the basis of a critical step in a way that we don't relate to something that was our previous argument, and we didn't dare, or we didn't find it appropriate to check it out, and that's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122282	Before we move to another replica, just to welcome on behalf of all of us students and students of Croatian Studies. Welcome. Second replica, Comrade Bull, here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122283	Thank you very much. Minister, two-thirds of Croatian schools are like the Middle Ages. We've only got 2700 less high school kids this year. 500 first-graders are less enrolled. 7 schools have been shut down. Come on, it's not all about the bright lights of the Advent City of Zagreb, or the lights of this Parliament. Look at the schools, how the classrooms are, how the toilets are, how the halls are. Children literally have no conditions in two-thirds of Croatia, to have a normal hall. For example, in the town of Sinj, the centre of the Dalmatian Zagora leaks the hall. Kids train in boots and raincoats. And you're talking here about something that can happen just like it did in the Division case. Will these digital materials have such an impact on human survival in that area. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Solve basics For the children, Minister. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122284	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122285	Thank you very much. I think you have an impact on school founders, given your other functions and that it's good, that we're all aware, to be aware that both founders have and have to take care of the standard in our schools. And we in the last year and a half, this government has been investing in school equipment, more than it's done before, and I'm going to tell you that for sure, I've entered a large number of schools in the past year and a half, that I'm aware of the conditions in our schools, we're going to continue to work in different ways to secure funds and work together with the founders to improve standards. And that modern technology allows equal opportunities for everyone, and that's clear. I'll only tell you one example. In one school I was in, the teacher said: “I have a student who is home, home without electricity.” So his tablet is the entrance to the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122286	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here you go, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122287	Thank you very much, dear Minister. So you're introducing digital content that's supposed to be free of charge, which is not. However, the question arises as to what these digital contents will be viewed, i.e. to be used and logically expected to be on tablets. In Croatia, we currently have 480,000 students, which means we should get a minimum of 480,000 tablets or some other aids, maybe a laptop and the like, and I'm interested in whose load these tablets will be bought. So will the tablets buy the Ministry of Science and Education or will the tablets buy you children and parents? If children and parents have to buy it, it is clear that a large part of them, and a minimum of 20%, will not be able to afford it and will not be able to participate equally in teaching with other students. Please respond, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122288	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122289	Thank you very much. Of course digital content can be used and not used by choice. But it's equally important that equipment is necessary, that every school has a projector, that it has a computer and that it uses it at school. And that allows every school to have classrooms and projectors and computers. Just as we will use European funds to provide the students with suitable equipment. We can also talk about models. However, I also said in this opening address. We have an example of France, which only invests a billion euros in digital content repositories. We have Germany that invests five billion euros in, so in its schools, there are 40,000. In Croatia, this would mean that we must invest two and a half billion kuna in school equipment during the next period. However, we use funds wisely to make it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122290	Fourth replica, fellow Voter, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you are, in fact, now that your colleague Bulj is, when you said that the students will for the first time receive pills that will be their only window into the world, so they asked you colleagues where they will fill that laptop, when they have no electricity at home, and you cried out from your chair at school. It's actually showing the whole picture of your approach to Maria Antoinette let them eat cookies. You say I introduce Croatia into the 21st century, education in the 21st century. No, I don't. You would have introduced Croatia into the 21st century if you would have fixed the roofs, secured a diet, if you had increased your salary to teachers, if you hadn't given up the licensing of teachers, teachers, directors, if you had prevented corruption in Croatian schools, if you had consulted a little more of the profession for your laws, then you would have done so. That Croatia will go through education information and decide HS through the adoption of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, not you. By you giving up the essentials strategies and you stayed in shape, and content [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You've completely rejected it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122292	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122293	I'm actually saddened that you, as a former assistant at the Ministry of Science and Education, don't understand the subject. And the theme is, first of all today is the topic of textbooks, that's the first thing. The other thing you should know is that schools are in charge of founders, that they get the funds that from the settlement fund, something directly from the tax, and we will try as we have so far, to help where it is needed. That is why we have made changes and additions to the Law on Education and Education to open that possibility. We will continue to work on it and also invest in equipment and cabinets of physics and biology, here at this very moment, funds are given to schools for different purposes and we will work with founders to fully achieve it. And today, of course, the topic of textbooks. This teacher said, before the student goes home, his tablet at school is loaded, the battery of course holds that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122294	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, Glasovac, a colleague of Bulj, are constantly throwing away and talking loudly. I beg you, you cannot work in such an atmosphere and ask for parliamentaryism to be correct towards each other. Let's move on, colleague Jeckov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122295	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, one of the most important suggestions of the Education Committee is that the content of textbooks and other educational materials, with the taxation of the principles, should also be the principle that, therefore, the contents must be consistent with scientific facts. In what way will this be ensured by this legislative proposal, given that in Art. 5. The Education Committee does not have this principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122296	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122297	Here's to art. Point 6 shows scientific, pedagogical, psychological, didactic, methodical, etc. I'm not reading everything now, so it's being determined, so that's the standard that determines, it's part of the teaching standard, and it's in the rule that the minister in charge of education makes. In that sense, as so far, there have been procedures, as well as details related to this subject, they are provoked by the regulation, of course, the rulebook will also be available in public consultation, so here, if there are any suggestions, we will consider them all. But it's already part of the textbook standard prescribed by the rulebook. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122298	Comrade Dolnjak, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122299	Mr. President, Your Honor, you're a math teacher and I'm interested in art. 4. in which you have regulated and prescribed formulas that define the highest permitted price of textbooks and the maximum permitted mass of textbooks is something that I find quite unusual, in the profession of people who are in protest I have heard that these formulas actually bring education to kilograms. And I wonder if you prescribed this in the bill, because you're a mathematician by profession, so it's the most logical way or it's a common practice in the EU, you said that you have consulted many Member States, their education systems, which countries have prescribed, that we determine by kilograms the greatest weight of textbooks, which countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122300	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122301	First of all, it doesn't have much to do with me being a mathematician, but it has a lot to do with me being responsible. In this respect, this fiscal responsibility and the first step towards determining what should be and how to invest to protect both the home budget and the state budget to regulate the price. We don't say in any way how much that price is going to be, but we say how much is the maximum. And that's important, it's important for the price, just as it's important that the weight that the student carries on his back should not be such that he suffers from his health, and that is the case. That's where we relyed exclusively on WHO's recommendation, and before in standard we had to prescribe no. The page that was connected to the number of hours, and in this way it is actually prescribed that it should not be, and it encourages something that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122302	Thank you, colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122303	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with Associates, so far in replicas we have had the opportunity to hear everything except practically everything except the final proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational material. I guess in this second reading it's obvious these suggestions, they're the remarks that were in the first reading are gone or maybe we'll just hear them later, it's not important, because the story of something else, which looks different, and not about what the topic of the agenda is, because I understand colleagues if they don't trust the CNS, don't trust us, I can understand it, but why don't they trust teachers then? Where's the problem when you give autonomy to teachers that they choose additional teaching materials, that they choose work notes, that our children have easier bags and that they pay less, where's the problem? Probably because, in a year and a half, all schools are delirious and all children have left Croatia, and that's probably our fault, right, so that's where we talk about these things and not something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122304	Thank you, colleague Alfirev, come in. Excuse me, excuse me, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122305	Thank you very much, I agree. I really think we need to talk about this very law that is now in this second reading and that we need to have school, students and teachers in front of us. And in fact, every reform succeeds or fails depending on whether or not we have prepared teachers well for this reform. And that's why the emphasis in our work is on teachers. Not only are they given freedom to this law, but they are given the possibility of additional education, which so far, to be honest, is much less than at this point. I'll tell you that we've already started educating all the teachers in our schools, for the next school year, and that Saturday they open classrooms that virtually make physical workshops for 32 thousand of our teachers, it's like the city of Vinkovci, if I'm not wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122306	Here you go, fellow Alphyrev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122307	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, I will look back on your opening statement and say that it was not pleasant. That it was extremely embarrassing and I'll tell you why. Because the style of your exposure belongs to what you worship or the way you teach teaching, which belongs to the 19th century as you said. It was full of doctoring, it was high, it was excavators, it was just like that. Your press statements are exactly like that, your statements here don't allow critical thinking, your statements here actually belong to that time and they're a bad message to all teachers and students. And you're not. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] good... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] an example to no one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122308	Thank you, colleague Alfirev. Here you go. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... Comrade Glasnović, please. Excuse me, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122309	Dear President, Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, a colleague from the bench, throws and insults the MPs and you laugh. So, you, with your laughter, approve of Mr. Glasnović's circus behavior and then what do you expect this assembly to achieve the dignity we should have? You're still laughing. [[Intruder: colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122310	So you wouldn't laugh. Kola Jovanovic So, all the time from here, from this part of the hall comes the throws of my colleague Glasovac, he does it all the time, you've been over the time and done with one battle call to the minister, I've had it all on my own, I haven't said anything to anyone, after that when you were out of time yelling, a fellow Glasovic who I warned didn't do it. [[You'd better cry.]] I told him not to do it and not to yell. [[Intruder: You didn't warn him.]] I said, but I didn't warn anyone. [[Intruder: Good mostly...]] Sit down, sit down, I was talking a little while ago and I asked my colleague Glasovac, a colleague of Bulja's who after that really stopped throwing away, but my colleague Glasovac kept throwing it away and now you're rebelling and asking me to intervene with someone who did it for the first time. [[But I'm not finished.]] So let's be honest, let's be correct, I invite you all not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122311	All right, Mr. President, did you hear what he was yelling at?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122312	Well, he didn't get any scarier than my colleague Alfirev used to say to the minister.../Intruder: Please listen to the video and you'll see. Intruder: So, Honorable President, take the Rules of Procedure into your hands and remind all those who violate the procedure in the assembly, regardless of which side they are./... If you want me to do so, but then I will have to give very much notice. [[... she talked about the 19th century and colleague Glasnović about the 50s of the 20th century, so I don't understand what you want...]] Here you go... No. The Minister is acting on the rules that apply here, and you don't like the content that's your problem. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122313	Thank you, so first of all, I'm sorry to hear that you still don't have any arguments, but you didn't feel comfortable, so here's what I didn't feel comfortable about throwing my colleague the Voice. I didn't feel comfortable either, but respecting this assembly and respecting the form that I gave me the arguments. You can fight me with arguments, you can say that something I said does not stand, and what it feels like is a special debate, we can talk about it in particular when we change and when the form of the debate changes in the assembly I will be very happy to discuss it in this form, and that is what I ask of you, and that is what everyone who follows us and who listens to your arguments and has heard nothing from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122314	Here you go, buddy of the Ice creams.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122315	Thank you, Mr President, dear Minister, for the first time, which is why there are different criteria for changing the content of electronic textbooks of those printed in the publication, given that those in the electronic edition do not have to pass the necessary review procedure, and those in the printed edition must. The second you said there would be no more chalk in the school classrooms if it was your contribution to solving the violence at school, since students would no longer be able to throw chalk at students and thirdly hope to see you on Saturday for the protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122316	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122317	And thank you very much, so one of the most important advantages of digital content that you can change, we are promoting technical changes here. So the technical changes that you can't do in a printed book, if once it's misprinted some year or some data you can't change, in digital you can, and that's one of the recognized values, as well as good that there are different animations, simulations now here in our materials in experimental schools you have content where, for example, biology is taught so that real virtual walking projections can be seen both internal organs and blood streams, etc. This can be improved, and it does not change into content in an important part, which is one of the advantages of digital technology. As far as chalk is concerned, it will not be thrown out, and I am against any violence in schools, even when a teacher and especially when a teacher reacts to violence. And that's why We're starting different projects in this direction. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122318	Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122319	Dear Minister, I am pleased that we are stepping into 4 generations of this industrial revolution, that they will receive teachers of these free textbooks it is all my pleasure, I will not repeat the content I am not an expert on some questions and I see at the Faculty of Philosophy below that it is a litter, a legion of red Camels, and that this cultural Marxism is still being studied, and this young lady you have best said she is an example of those heirs of these cultural markerists morally moralists because they have no arguments, there are still singing what, I have heard them singing there in the hallway “we will plant grain from the sky some hungry England, America is looking” me also concerned by the atmosphere in schools, atmosphere in schools, we know, it hurts... In America, Poland has zero tolerance for, uh, according to bulling, you have fines, suspensions, parents being punished, but these need psychologists actually in schools, not just psychologists, but all over this to help these people get out of that age. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Stalinist, this [[Intruder: Thank you]] Winter, Stalinist winter. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122320	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, comrade Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122321	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, a fellow Glasovic has injured an article. 238. HS rudely offending colleague Alfirav by saying, or imputing her that she is the heir to the Red Measures just because she has warned the guest of this HS, Minister of Information, Blaženko Divjak, not to give us a hand, that she is not acting as an ex-Catera with a high, because representatives of the foundation and this Rules of Procedure have the right to ask questions, even not to understand certain matter, express their satisfaction or dissatisfaction, and the Minister [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] He's here to listen to it and answer it, not to give it to us. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122322	So, his colleague Glasnovic didn't call anyone, he said about his colleague, I don't know which colleague he meant, so I can't give him a warning. Comrade Voter, you spend all the time spending what I find equally inappropriate and don't ask this one to sanction another, and everything you do is the same as the other one you'd want me to sanction. So, the debate was what counterpart Glasovic thought was politically correct for him, and I think he could have spoken differently, but it's the usual debate in HS, so nothing beyond the framework we have. Here's your colleague, Glasnović, and you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122323	So I think it's true, it's not a violation of the regulations and the Republic of Croatia is still in the grips of cultural Marxism. By these plows here... [[- Okay. - Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122324	... colleague Glasnović, you have now broken the Rules of Procedure and I will now give you a warning/... You won't answer, yes. Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122325	Dear Minister, you yourself have established through a series of replicas that the county does not perform as founders fully its role, that our schools are unsatisfactoryly equipped and the like. We're all witnesses to that. Through this law you promise virtual classrooms, you're talking about an experimental group where 80% of the resources are directed towards teachers, 20% on equipment. What I'm getting from the field is that teachers are constantly complaining because they have to carry their equipment, their portable computers on your education. I'm also interested in what you're going to do, and I'm guessing this law needs to go through the procedure with the Assembly, to define that the experiment has worked. The experimental program has not yet been evaluated, it is still only in implementation, and you are already declaring it successful in the way that since next year you are introducing it into all schools. My question is, as far as school is concerned. for life [[Intruder: Thank you]] Well, thank you. [[Intruder: Please finish]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122327	Here, thank you. It's true, this isn't in the Bookbooks Act, that's clear. I will still answer one part, so we work together with the founders and the equipment of schools and, of course, where founders cannot intervene or upgrade or rebuild schools, we also opened that possibility in the Law and so we will continue to work. Of course, some founders more, some less worry about education. The same should be punished, and we should encourage them, on the one hand, to invest together, on the other hand, and perhaps work together to be more activated in this regard. As for the experimental program, I didn't say that he was successful, nor will he be in the next year exactly the same as in the experimental program, so we need to keep an eye on what's going on. We've already changed some things, and the experimental program doesn't test the curricula, but implementation, among other things, addresses these issues. which you've been setting up now. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122328	Comrade Madyer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122329	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you're talking about school reform, you're talking about dispensing students. Yeah, maybe students will carry bags easier, but I'm asking you if you know what students learn in schools at all at the Ministry, if you don't know, example, only that students in the 5th grade of primary school learn the programming language of payton, which they haven't even studied in high school before. Second, the example of learning the official language in Kenya and Tanzania is each of them. Then yes, that nomadic cattlemen in the Sahara of Tuareza were a race of North Africa, so I ask if it's a dispensation of students And education reform? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122330	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122331	But when exactly what you have stated is the goal of dissipating yourself from unnecessary facts, especially data that they will not need later, but rather methods that will encourage their critical thinking and problem approach. As far as payton is concerned, so look at what's payton, it's a modern programming language that, of course, needs to be taught on information, you won't be doing bass, fortran or pascal, I guess we know that much. And the discharge is not only seen in the literal fact that the bags are easier, but it is also a message that a dispensing student is also from unnecessary facts, so it is not only physically, but it is in the conveyed meaning that it is a dispensation of content that is not needed and all the research that you will find today in future needs and the labour market is talking about exactly that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122332	Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122333	Thank you very much. So today it is clear that the information has never been more and that knowledge is becoming less and less. So, crucially, in order to gain competence from information, the textbooks are certainly teachers, of course. And because of every decision we make in this House, we need to think first and foremost about the students and no one else can be above their right to know. I came forward because of two facts, the first one was, Minister, you said that for the first time the highest price was determined so in my term we made the basis for the rules in force, defined the highest level of textbook prices, which is so for example. The first grade was 10% lower but the eighth grade was 18%. So it could have been done by now. And secondly, I suggest you set up like us an anti-corruption team that will be all publishers as we have signed a contract with 67 publishers who will follow this whole process and prove to Croatia that there is no corruption or any illegal activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122334	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122335	Thank you. So here's the first thing I'm going to say, so I was thinking when I talked about the highest price, the highest price in the law, it's immediately clear because the law won't change at any rate that can change rules or certain decisions, but that it's clear that it can be planned in the long run. In that sense, it was this that I said that for the first time the highest price was determined and that it was prescribed in law and that it also depends on the media pay. As for the anti-corruption team, that is, we also plan to follow the selection process because if data and inscriptions are carefully looked at and all that is now available to us from the period when last time, when the school textbooks were selected, it is clear that the choice should be free in such a way that the teacher chooses what is best for him and the student and not to suit someone and we will follow it closely. And I invite all of you to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122336	Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122337	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister, I'd like to call this one move and call it a wasteful house and a wasteful wall, putting on the most modern facade. You're not to blame for the wasteful house and the waste walls and the fact that it's good to set up a new facade but it won't make sense because there's simply a big difference between rural and urban areas and the foundation of technical predisposition. Take a look at some schools in rural areas, in Dalmatinska Zagora and in Gorski Kotar. I got a call from the principal in the morning from a certain field school where there's no theoretical way to get the Internet in the first place. And let's talk about the 21st century and have the infrastructure left for the 19th century. In your presentation, you said it was on the founder's burden. So here's what I'm suggesting is that all the counties be abolished and that all that money we get about abolishing the counties and rerouting it to the basic infrastructure of all the schools. I think everyone would be better off, and you'd be better off. There simply needs to be absolute reform, depoliticization of education, we all know who sits on the school boards of founders of the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122338	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122339	Thank you. First of all, I think that education care, schools is our common task. It means both central states and founders. And I said it, and I'm gonna say it again that we have to work together. And that's why we've invested the most in schools that's invested in the last 10 years from the position means the state budget and that's how it's going to be in the future. And already now we have models that use both funds and different other funds to level the standard in Croatia over the next seven, eight years. But it certainly can't be done in a way that we can ignore, that we have to change the curricula, that they have to be made possible, that it must enable access and flow of information, information to all the students, and that there must be no good example of France, Germany that I mentioned in the introduction. So work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122340	Comrade Macar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122341	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. In this Law on textbooks you have pointed out several times that you are giving greater independence to teachers in choosing working materials and it is really important that teachers finally get on their own importance. But I've talked to a lot of teachers myself, there are those who are extremely pleased. And I listened to an extremely good show where they asked from the Vukovar school which was included in the school program for life where they asked teachers and parents and teachers and they all expressed great satisfaction. But there are also those teachers who told me, so we're not informed enough. Are they actually against it or do you have any other knowledge since media also often appear such information, thank you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122342	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122343	Thank you very much. That's right, so this law allows freedom of choice. And as with all freedom and freedom of choice and here choice of educational materials, textbooks include education, understanding and, of course, it's not easy. It is much simpler to accept the recipe, much simpler to accept what someone simply gives you, and you do not discuss it. But that's not the goal of this law or educational reform. The goal is to strengthen the teacher that he can, therefore, not only choose but argue his choice and that is what is now being done. And our information is from schools which are in the experimental program that this is going well but one of the information that we have already received in education for the next, for the frontal performance is that we have to pay much more attention to teachers and teachers, for example learn how to get in with teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122344	Thank you. Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122345	... And now time's gone, hasn't it? [[Specially enabled.]] [[Break president: A microphone please.]] I say, the purpose of the education system is to prepare a child for their life, for the future. The world has entered a digital era, and that's quite clear. Maybe all the MPs in this House didn't register it, but he did. And that is why I support the digitisation of the Croatian education system because these are tools that children must know how to use if they want to survive today and tomorrow. But, of course, you also need to provide funding for the infrastructure, and that is where I ask you to do quite seriously. It would be a lot better to invest in education than in such arrangements as we have with planes that have obviously failed and failed. But my question to you is that today we were welcomed by teachers who presented to us once again the problem they have in their classrooms. And you said yourself except the textbooks they're key to the education system. How are you going to deal with the question of the working conditions of teachers, or order in classrooms that teachers and children need to contribute equally to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122346	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122347	Thank you. As I said before, so teachers are most important for the implementation of any reform, but the same reform depends on what the situation in our classrooms is, what we will do is one comprehensive analysis and action plan of action in combat and prevention, and above all, the fight against violence and classrooms. And there are at least 3 segments to pay attention to, above all, education, all those stakeholders in the system that includes parent education. For let us not forget that school cannot prevent domestic violence from being promoted in any way. The second through the curricula that school, which is mandatory, is being co-operated with all those stakeholders, who can help us improve that, and that's actually a way that, in fact, one comprehensive analysis and then, by means of an action plan, we respond to that, although unfortunately, we will never end up eradicating it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122348	Thank you. Comrade Vučetić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122349	Thank you. I'm glad you started John Duryem, however, he also said that the classroom is a place of real life. The present real life is the life in which digitisation takes place, and from these current discussions and replicas, which were more at the level of free associations, it is evident that we need to expand knowledge of Dury, and to conclude that the school should be in any communication with other social institutions. From this debate it is quite evident if the founders can't establish, to ensure that the school functions in accordance with what we should do, to have problems with local self-government units, then we will contact another social institution, which has said, that it is not possible to decentralisation, if we have units of local self-government below 20,000 inhabitants. This ensures that democracy is developing, and that the school serves to produce knowledge, not politics in the production of mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122350	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122351	Thank you very much, when we talk about reform processes, I would stress here 2 regarding your discussion and you will probably agree there, first is the empowerment of teachers to take over the freedom of choice of autonomy in their work, which must result from the teacher being a person who is sure of his knowledge, but not only of knowledge regarding the subject but also of his competence as a teacher, as an educator, and it must also be provided in initial education but also later in additional education. The second is the autonomy of a school that recognizes the environment in which it lives, which gives freedom of expression to both students and teachers, but which must work closely with all stakeholders. Parents are first, but surely it is a local community, which is not only directed to finance or help the school, but to participate in its development and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122352	Comrade Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, we are all aware that we need reform and modernisation of education, something well defined by this law. I'm sorry you didn't take advantage of the opening time, so maybe now through the replica to point out what changed from first to second reading and what we were looking for and what was fixed, conditionally said. However, the dilemma that remains, in which other colleagues have been warned, which is my question, is whether the use of technology will actually be available to all students, in which way we will ensure it and whether the regulation or otherwise define itself, if a child or teacher decides to enter some content through a digital medium and whether that digital medium will remain at school, whether the digital medium will wear it at home, will they need that digital medium, i.e., the tablet, to be upgraded, how will this be resolved and will it require additional costs for local self-government units?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122354	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122355	Thank you very much. As far as the change is concerned, it is formally complemented by the definition of textbooks where it is clearly said to be basic material. After that, it is important to improve the part, which relates to the approval of additional materials, so I thank you for your comments and help in this section. As I said, this highest price has been corrected, so other than the number of hours, you take into account the number of items, which may be the basic changes that are in this section. And as for the resources needed to work, we will also ensure, of course, in cooperation with schools. And the schools, which they receive, are certain materials for work, whether they are physical textbooks, whether they are additional funds, or whether they are materials, which they are carriers or media, will be owned by the school and will thus be regulated, and of course the sources of funding are already foreseen by the European Social Fund, the European Regional Development Fund and in a small part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122356	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122357	Dear Minister, if anywhere then clear protocols are needed in the school system and clear systems we have seen this from the last merciless event of the professors that the students were throwing at with chalk. You got a little under your nose today, and that's what you need, for the questions that are in the authority of the founder. What does that have to do with this law, I'll make an amendment, which I'll hand over to you, I'll go show you in point 14. Look at many today mayors, mayors, making their political careers, building halls, building district schools, unfortunately, that's good, but unfortunately, the question is whether they will be students in these district schools. At the same time, teachers wear toilet paper and paper so that children can have it at school. And that's why it's very important that the article does. 14. determine if textbooks will be purchased, that exactly, which is the founder, how much you invest in the system of education and you need to know as a minister, that they are not only doing this because of their P.R.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122358	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122359	As has now been established and proposed in this bill is that the state can, of course, co-finance textbooks in primary and secondary schools at the expense of the state budget. What has been agreed in the meantime is that primary school is surely a priority and that compulsory textbooks are what must be a priority. However, about the model itself, as this one will mean, apart from the mandatory textbooks that clearly what I am thinking at this point and will be elaborated in this additional model is that, that they must be in school and that they must be available to students who then owe them but details can be spoken of. And the role of founders in this part of it I certainly see that they primarily need to ensure equal conditions, equal working conditions in school. So this is not just about the textbooks of additional materials, but about everything you're talking about right now, because there's really no need for parents to take it to school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122360	Thank you. Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122361	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, we have heard here many times the availability of the implementation of the reform and the application of textbooks, especially electronic textbooks. And I agree with colleagues who have said that it is a matter of Internet availability and all of the technical opportunities it provides. We are witnessing that we have in Croatia and today, after your debate, the topic is mountainous mountainous assisted areas and we know very well that which are the founders and that certain funds are being allocated. But it also needs to be made very clear that the founders are the ones who determine the network of schools. Yes, it's the founders who will, whether it's the district schools, if it's 5, 6 students or not. But also that the Ministry of Regional Development, the government as a whole through the programmes and through the laws on assisted areas and mountainous mountainous areas is where it should be included along with your portfolio, support, help and try if necessary to keep.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122362	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122363	Yes, thank you. I thank you for your suggestions and for your clarification. So we agree, so the network is actually proposed by the founders. What we are preparing now are new guidelines, which is what the Government has concluded and tasked us to give guidance to the founders of the new network by the beginning of next year. And here we will use both home and international experience to make education really accessible to everyone but not any education but quality education. And as for availability when it comes to technology, it's technology that makes it more accessible. So here I'll just remind you that in this 74-school experimental program, we've made sure that all three teleopers make themselves available, so free of charge that students can use materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122364	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122365	Thank you very much. Minister, my respect, I will look back on that part of your opening presentation in which you spoke about significant investments in education, or professional teacher training, and I personally welcome it. However, what we have on the ground, so this professional training was carried out mostly on the line through webinars in a fairly short time period and the fact is that we have witnessed the dissatisfaction of part of teachers exclusively and dominantly on the line by perfecting and we have talked about it several times and I have turned your attention to that fact and I have drawn attention to that dominantly on the form of professional training is not the best solution. I ask you for a concrete answer to the question whether you've come to your senses in the past and if you've done it, have you organised professional trainings that are structural in a way that we're not on the line but allow for a living word? And if which experts were conducting professional training, from which institution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122366	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122367	That's right, so when we talk about professional training, we're planning professional training and he line, not through webinar but through virtual classrooms but also in physical form, means in encounters. And that's how it was done. However, we have now stepped up these very meetings, and among other things there have been five major regional meetings with 500 participants in each meeting and regional meetings on subjects, topics, etc., so this has been really promoted. And now for next year's education, the first tour of education went to each school and 96% of schools were already 4% in the experimental program, so it's not necessary. We also put more emphasis on the combination of live education and education on the line. For now, we have 170 mentors who mentor and participate in this education, 150 from Croatia, 20 from European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122368	Thank you. Comrade Vard, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122369	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honors Minister. I'm sorry that half of your opening presentation instead of the Bookbook Act, I don't know who, a replica of some false news, false comments. But what concerns me and you can check in the phonogram, you said you needed to closely monitor the debate in order to see who advocates the public interest and who works against it, or under the cover of the so-called. The defense of public interest stands for someone else's interest. We haven't even started the debate yet. We haven't even started the debate on the law, and in my opinion, you're asking MPs and MPs to accept the law without debate. And then I connect what I read on a portal to give us so-called. A digital lobby, not to say the mob is threatening to remember who the MPs are rooting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122370	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122371	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, first of all, if you're going to have arguments to argue with, you're going to have to follow. I'm just saying follow to make it easier to explain. As I said last time in my closing statement, some MPs were literally reading what certain publishers had prepared even before. And it's also documented, and there was a need to ask that we really had an argument. And as for the digital lobby, so all those publishers who are now working on printed textbooks will work and are already making digital materials, so I don't know what the digital lobby is about right now, but some publishers certainly have an interest in not changing anything and not putting the maximum prices for textbooks into the law. But here, I mean not everyone is equal but we also have to pay attention to those who want to keep that extra profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122372	Thank you. Comrade Voter, you were wasting your breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122373	Yes, Mr. President. I think that once again here, in such a very rude way, the rights of MPs are threatened, which violates Article 14, but at this point they are being violated by the minister because on a completely legitimate issue and the intervention of MP Varda, the minister in her own style, again, what we have already shown here and during the debate, he said he did not follow it well or someone did not follow. or someone didn't read well or didn't get it right. [[Intruder President: Fellow Voter.]] but we are entitled to the basis of Article 14. ... [[President: There were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure...../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122374	.../Intruder President:... and you get a warning. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122375	The Members shall be entitled to ask and not to understand, pursuant to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122376	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122377	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, it is good that in this law you have predicted that tailored textbooks can be used for students with developmental difficulties. Likewise, you predicted that textbooks, their content and structure must enable students to learn and acquire different levels and types of competences. I believe that in this sense you will also be in some way support for publishing, I can also say financial support for making and publishing textbooks for blind and undersighted students since they are now in a very difficult situation that these textbooks actually do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122378	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122379	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, therefore, the truth is that we have foreseen here a greater emphasis on adaptation, how to adapt students with difficulties, for example, to weak-sighted students or students who have dyslexia and various other difficulties that can occur are also when we think about learning and teaching, we need to enable these students to adapt that allows us both technology and different ways of working. What I am stressing here is that, also in the state budget for next year, we have significantly increased the funds just to adjust the textbooks and in this sense, for blind and impaired students, and we think that this is a very important segment that we provide not only for those to whom any adjustment is needed but also for those with difficulties as well as for the work of adapting with students, gifted students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122380	Thank you. This is what we came to an end with replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122381	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Enough of your manipulation of reform and its political abuse. You have instrumented narrow party political goals on something concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are all for reform, including us, where every constructive criticism and those who bring them up, you are declaring opponents of the reform. This labeling speaks best of you as well as of the way you lead that reform. Second, digitization of education. What does digitalization of schooling mean? That instead of textbooks, kids would look at PDF textbooks on pills? They won't be able to do anything else, given the pills you're getting and the software they have the same pills. These software cannot attract 3D animations and other more demanding content. In general, it is appropriate for children to meet and work on tablets from the 1st basic. Workbooks in which to write answers, draw on a map, etc. are no longer mandatory but instead will solve tasks by pulling fingers per tablet. Ever since he's hoping that the issue of taking the pills home hasn't been resolved, things are getting ridiculous. Thirdly, textbooks cheaper than 10%, and over the back of taxpayers, they're going to get half a billion to buy pills. It'll be interesting to see who's gonna be the suppliers. An attempt to do so should also be paid to operators who will enable the Internet to connect on all parts of Croatia, I hope. From the very beginning, the curricula reform was conducted in a way that was not inclusive but in certain cases, such as history and humanistic sciences, deeply ideologically colored. A reduced profession is at the moment when the prime minister, after months of searching for experts, heads the expert commission for the implementation of education reform. It's politicized. At the very least, it's untasteful how you use children in your coalition blackmail, so today and these days, we have you leaving the government if this law doesn't go away. So the children are your hostages. The law on textbooks is valid and should be seen as another step in a series of so-called books. education reforms. You offer state textbooks and children and parents pamphlets instead of essential reforms. We see this law as a continuation of unprepared reform that we witness at every turn, so let's remember. Undelivered information equipment at the beginning of the school year worth 26 million kuna for 673 primary schools. Payment was delayed for 8200 children who were to receive, so these are not able to buy textbooks but have the right under the law, meaning co-financing of their textbooks. 6,000 tablets without cameras and we're offering a digital transformation of schools. You took the right to experiment with the system where the children are. The e-school project is worth 360 million kuna, yes, it is funded from EU funds, but 15% and 50 million kuna, respectively, must be provided from the state budget. And later, in 2019, when you prove that this experiment has succeeded, and the result is long known, the total amount will be enough for only 60% of schools. What does that mean? That the other kids won't have the same opportunities? How will you ensure that all children have equal opportunities for education? The experiment was launched in July 2018 when the Law on Education and Education here was passed in primary and secondary schools and in which you put in the Law the non-existent document, which is a roof, meaning, a concept, a roof national document that has not yet been adopted. We, without a roof national document, are the only ones who are in force by the national consensus of 2010, working on lower hierarchical documents. How is that possible? I point out that through these amendments of the Law, you have demeaned teachers and teachers because you have set out in one article that curricula of teaching subjects can be used, the purpose and objectives of learning are determined, and then you list, and then you add in the end, and a list of the necessary qualifications of teachers and teachers to perform the curricula can be established. Is this provision under the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework? What is the Croatian Qualifications Framework for? What's the Sector Council for? The only thing so far, it's successful, in this so-called. Education reform is a promotion. There's no question about the student's burden. From the very beginning of the reform, there is no maximum, no optimum, no minimal, meaning the burden of students, who talk about children. Today we have the fact that the textbooks used in the experimental program are made by a curricula that is not the final version. Let's just say the course of history was just passed at the end of April 2018, which means, it's already started, so it's being made for an experimental group. Why are you changing the Law on textbooks, and the experimental exercise has just begun? How do you know the experiment worked? The experiment has not yet been completed, and the outcome has been announced, successful. The same will be assessed by the Commission, which is composed of those who directly participated in the experiment, expected to know how they will vote. Through these facts, it is clear what kind of reform is involved, cosmetic changes have been made, textbooks should be written, and the final curricula does not yet exist. It's just the formation of expert review teams that, please deny me if this isn't true, you introduce an experiment to all schools without technical preconditions, talking about 10% cheaper textbooks in your formula, and things aren't said the way they are. And what you're not saying is how much will it cost the founders in the following years, what costs parents expect in the coming years because you're introducing pills tomorrow and when they're not e-funds, who's going to pay that cost, who's going to pay the cost, founders or parents? It is certain that citizens, or increasingly poor citizens in the Republic of Croatia, will pay this actual investment in schools that are not secured, so all students, we don't even have, come to me from undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, here, there is winter weather, children don't have physical, they don't have gyms, but we have virtual classrooms, great. The door opens by kicking out printed textbooks from school, at the same time you have not provided technical conditions for schools, you have failed to enable and regulate that children can carry their tablets home, why didn't you prescribe it? So the logical question is, what are these kids going to learn about digital content, do they have kids, when they take the pills they charge at school, okay? Maybe they have electricity at home, and the question is, do they have an interview at home? Maybe they don't have the Internet at home. The question of content to go to the electronic part of the textbook or to the electronic textbook is raised and can be changed without the procedure. Are we going to learn about the Homeland War material like that Solonian textbook? The Law sets out double criteria, the need for reviews for printed textbooks and the fact that an electronic part or an electronic textbook can be amended without the procedure laid down by this Act. So, we're going to have a digital textbook, so some of us might decide for the whole, some of us are going to choose to mix, and then if that electronic part changes, will parents, for a year, when those who changed it, will parents have to buy the additionally changed electronic part? This Law is a reckless, fast-tracked, life-saving solution to heavy bags and digital transformations. There was a complete reform of education that needed and morale-involved curricular documents, which should have been relieved of unnecessary content, a new proposal by the captain, a more organised schedule, the insurance of lockers in schools for children and other things, to ensure a more quality education. Is it still expected, when this Law passes, that toners and photocopy paper, to enable children to exercise their teaching content, to be bought by teachers and teachers? Your parole is textbooks should be thin and cheap, but whether knowledge will be so thin, and students cheap labour according to a statement by the Prime Minister that promotes us both as a destination for investors. Before applying this Act, necessary scientific evaluation of curricular documents is required. Unfinished curriculative documents should be revived and entered into all schools if this doesn't stop. I note, that the public is being deceived, that this law alone allows for succession, it is also possible by the 2010 Law. I ask that the following be clarified, since through this Law a digital supplement is proposed to the textbook and can be changed, so every year does this mean that it will be bought every year? If yes, then I ask you to admit that this Law is now abolishing and dodging the possibility of inheriting because it brings new costs for teachers or children, for families, for new costs for founders, and no one is talking about it. All mentioned and formula in the Law and calling for media salary 5,076.00 kn as if everyone in Croatia works for 5076 kuna, half Slavonia works for 2500-2600 kuna, I think. What about them? You assumed that. The reduction in gramage, that's your goal, the reduction in grammar, but it doesn't guarantee quality, it doesn't guarantee that it's quality, and for children they should want what's quality, and that's what they should be guided by. My parents from all parts of Croatia report that in the first grade of primary school, children who are going to the experimental group, to this day, information from yesterday, learned 7 letters, very much walking on the outside, very well, going on trips and so on. Is this the experimental program that we're going to introduce to all schools and that we're going to do some work, means the finger per tablet, so where there's graphomotors, means after school, you're going to be given it, but you didn't make it possible for the kids to take the pills if they have the Internet and then that, except for the school, they're still staying on these devices and after school, means that they're actually available for 24 hours, so that, I don't know, they're going to be involved in your experimental reform of education, and if those kids are going to be 24 hours, they're going to be available and they should be able to carry the tablet home and they are included in that school bag and weight pills? And also one thing, it seems that only children in the Republic of Croatia will experience digital transformation in one bad way, in which we will learn, because digital transformation is not happening in public administration, last night the secretary of state said here in the late hours that out of 880 million kunas for the digital transformation of the public administration of the Republic of Croatia, we used the requirements for compensation of funds, so 4 million kuna was paid, that is 0.45%. What I would also like to appeal to you is to build school halls, to virtual classrooms, and also one thing about teachers and teachers themselves, which is how do you think people who are involved mean to these experimental groups, and carry their computers, means to schools, to these educations, to ensure the compensation of funds? That's also one more thing, as far as the weight of the bag is concerned. We know it's a teacher's choice. How do you know that bags will be easier if some teachers will choose certain publishers for biology, history, mathematics, Croatian, so we can't know that it will happen in all schools, and I also think that weighting bags would depend on the schedule. What if the kids don't have a schedule? If they have, I don't know, six of all the items and they have to carry books. Well, here's to thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122382	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sonja Cikotic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122383	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the Final Proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, but not without backup and without criticism of the current state. I believe that there is a space but a financial framework that something considered mandatory by law, if we consider that basic school is for all, and that the law textbook is defined as compulsory educational material, unfairly that all citizens pay by one model, based on a media net salary. With respect to the Government's decision on co-financing of textbooks according to which users of guaranteed minimum fees receive a 50% cash relief from the total price of the required textbooks and other teaching tools, I believe that this is not enough, and that, according to the model of the city of Zagreb, all students should be subject to non-refundable textbooks, and of course, the textbooks are used multiple times with the emphasis on the need to digitise all content. The textbooks themselves are often not in step with the development of modern technology, they are too heavy and bulky. And the whole schooling model that makes students of their earliest age take all books to school and school every day is not good. It is unquestionable that we must invest more resources in education, and it is unquestionable that the funds are sufficient, that textbooks are provided to all students, and that they serve for several generations at no extra cost. I stress this because these costs further worsen the situation that we have at a high rate of giving up primary and secondary education of members of the Roma national minority from households with more children, where education costs are imposed as one of the main causes of early giving up. That is why I support the amendment and the proposals of the Rada Club and Solidarity, which is heading towards changing this situation. What we are discussing today, including the curricula reform, we should have done a long time ago and focused on concrete and greater problems in our education. Especially in areas where teachers and students work under impossible conditions. I must say, no one has contacted me about the curricula reform yet, from Boris Jokic, so I can conclude that there have been no shifts when we talk about the educational plan for the Roma national minority according to the proposed model C. Earlier, the Roma Union in the Republic of Croatia Kali Sara organised summer schools with the aim of fostering Roma culture and language, and we don't have that anymore. I must also conclude that I am very sorry that we are no longer investing in education, and especially when it comes to infrastructure, let's say that once again the necessary need to build up the OS Kursanec, next to Čakovec, which I have spoken of several times. In the future we will have to build and build a series of facilities, and in particular we must take care of the situation in Medjugorje in which we are all facing each other more, especially... Roma schools and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Classes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, this is due to the demographic situation, but given the strategic documents that involve the integration of Roma children, we must bear in mind that special efforts are needed to do so. I'd like to mention two articles, Art. Article 5 Article 11 5 of the law explicitly states that the content of the textbooks should be dealt with by promoting national identity in a single one, thus excluding the national identity of national minorities. If the textbooks need... National identity should do the same for members of national minorities, i.e. textbooks other than the national identity of the majority must... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and the role of national minorities in the development of Croatian society and culture, regardless of whether it is the contribution of Czech architecture or Roma volunteers of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Likewise, in art. 11 Focusing on national minorities, but like all recommendations for minority content, it is not binding, i.e. using the word "can", in other words, and not necessarily. A, specifically Roma national minors have no textbooks for the intended model C or model C for the Roma national minority until the end. Unfortunately, the decade of scholarships also did not create educational personnel from the Roma national minority, so I will repeat that the framework is good, but we did not do enough to realize what we needed. The assimilation of specially educated Roma is one of the major problems for the Roma community, which quickly runs out of personnel to lead the community forward. I therefore believe that the provisions of the laws concerning the textbooks of national minorities should have been clearer and binding. I will also launch a discussion at the Committee for the Monitoring of the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion, to further clarify the needs and opportunities, i.e. to appoint a working group to present a proposal for a textbook for the implementation of model C for the Roma national minority, which will cover both language and culture, regardless of which language they consider to be native. The history of the lips, but also the written literature of the Roma, the grammar of the Roma language and the cultivation of the Roma culture deserves its place in the textbooks for model C, or special textbooks, as well as textbooks providing for the care of the national identity of the majority. If we fail to do so, we will create a system in which one national culture will be more important than another, and we experience such a situation too much in everyday life anyway. I must point out on this occasion that the Republic of Croatia has not yet unreservedly supported the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages and that the Roma language does not recognise, while Austria, BiH, the Czech Republic, Germany, the Netherlands, Montenegro, Norway, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and other countries do so. Besides Roma, there is room for other minority languages I represent. For example, the German language that has been on our premises has spoken for more than a century, especially in areas where we still have... Community and German national minorities, especially after II. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Holy shit. The war is violently assimilated, and today they are organized and re-teaching their own language. Of course, it is a very similar situation among the other minorities I represent. And Austrian for German, then Russian, Polish, Ukrainian, Jewish... Bulgarian and oatmeal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're going back to the topic of the textbook. I sincerely hope that the government will recognise the votes that require free use of textbooks for all our students in primary and secondary schools and that more incentives and concerns will show to parents, especially those with more children, in a way that their existence and concrete measures are supported in order to achieve the proclaimed democratic measures that are very much discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122384	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Katazia. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB club, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected ministers with associates, associates. My colleagues and colleagues, these days it's really... full of textbooks and it is good to discuss so much about this very important segment of the development of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also good that there are different opinions, it is good that some new additional proposals have been made, and I will, on behalf of the HDS-HSLS-HDSSB Club, also present on my personal behalf some of our views on textbooks. Mandatory schooling, mandatory textbooks, and now we come to what has become most important. Printed textbooks and books or tablets. And that's now the most important topic that comes up. That's the most talked about, which lobby will prevail, which lobby will win, who will do better in future times, whether those who print textbooks, who print, I don't think in this part there's enough debate and care about what's best for children. Here's an example these days, I'm talking to the principals of primary schools, I'm talking to my parents, and they're giving me an example of France that introduces a phone ban and banning pills to me, which I think is grade six. We're talking about an advanced country, so feel free to correct me if that's incorrect because that's the information the school principals gave me. In this regard, we will submit an amendment that the Law on textbooks provides that the tablets are not introduced before the 6th grade of primary school, taking into account the primary interest of children's health. Today in this time, we've all become slowly addicted to cell phones, tablets, computers. People are being treated for that addiction. Do we really need to legalise such addiction in primary schools? Do we really need to teach kids that they're just pulling fingers on the screen so they don't even know how to take a pen, that their motor skills don't develop, that they become some kind of robot skill? Additional classes of physical and health culture should be introduced at school. Children should be encouraged to move more. They need to be able to work with their hands, with their fingers. Computers are inevitable, we're all aware of that, but not right from the start. I'm really asking the Minister to think carefully about this amendment that we're going to give and that we really see the possibility of it moving from the sixth grade to the next. I repeat, first of all, the idea of the amendment came from conversations with school principals and not from school principals who are obsolete, who may have some conservative methods and with parents who are waging wars with their children to in some way prevent them from using cell phones, typing on cell phones and games, and I don't know what else is going on in schools, and we're still doing that in this textbook law. Also, what has been quite exposed these days and what the amendment has been given at parliamentary majority meetings is a requirement for compulsory schooling, mandatory textbooks to be free of charge or that parents do not have to buy textbooks, they will not be free of charge, someone will have to buy, pay, but that it goes to the expense of the state. For many years and as head of local self-government, but also here in the Croatian Parliament, we are already talking about discrimination that is present in the Republic of Croatia regarding compulsory schooling of children. This discrimination is particularly evident and present in rural areas, is that it has been significantly reduced by the adoption of amendments to tax laws that have given local self-government significantly higher resources, and they have also started to buy textbooks for their schoolboys. But they're not all and they're never all and they're not all the same and we're different again. The question always arises: Why should textbooks be given children to those who are better materially standing and not just those who are weaker materially standing? I think textbooks need, those mandatory textbooks need to get all the kids because those people who have bigger salaries, they pay bigger taxes at the very least, and they don't need to do any division and division. Now it's just that it's a package that needs to be financed by the state in order to even out all the kids going to primary school, to compulsory school, and that's a package that's left for local self-government to be able to do something else, and there's one balance that needs to be found. It was also a question of whether they would be free textbooks for all children in primary schools, in order to order it, who would order it, and to distribute it. From the experience in that part of the operation at the level of local self-government, the best option is to be through decentralised funds such as founders decentralised funds for material expenditures on capital investments, to also decentralised funds for that package that determines free textbooks to be given to children. In this way, it also allows the selection of individual textbooks, since it allows the selection of textbooks per school. And in this way, it is easier to solve this problem, and on the other hand, in the economic part, we have to look at the problem that is happening, when the order of textbooks from the state level for all children in Croatia, all primary schools in Croatia, would then be one supplier. And we have across Croatia especially in smaller environments, in rural areas of bookstores which also have in theirs to say sales packages and textbooks and which in some ways compete also with the supply and sale of these textbooks. In this way, through dispersion all over Croatia, we also preserve this economic segment by regional and local self-government. Furthermore, there is that problem about founders, and other local self-governments that are not founders. We have cities today that want to be founders, but the current founders don't provide it, they don't want to pass on their founding rights, I've talked about it here in the Parliament, in the adoption of the Law on Fundamental and Secondary Education. Unfortunately, such proposals have not been accepted. We have given the procedure as a club amending these laws and we are still asking that this be seriously considered and that units of local self-government that have fiscal capacity, which have human resources, are able to take over the founding rights because the current founding rights are in the majority assigned to a decree, except for some cities that have assumed fundamental rights on their own demands in their primary schools, from the counties, because this is the county in which they act. It's not right, that someone who's been given a decree of founding rights can now prohibit the transfer and founding rights of those who want to invest in their schools. Now, these local self-governments, which have no founding rights but have schools in their fields, have children going to school, should certainly be allowed to be placed in some way, even in some moral obligation that these revenues, which are significantly strengthened by changes in tax laws, finance a part of the costs for their schoolboys. Whether these are work notes or other accessories should be enabled. So by our court free textbooks yes, but those free textbooks that are mandatory and without which you can't, and this part, it's at the expense of the state, and that part, plus the workbooks, with all the others goes from local self-government. In addition to this amendment which we will submit during the debate to the Art. The 3rd Law states that the tablets go as a 6-grade textbook of elementary school we are ready to support this law, of course, and with one I believe modified the revised amendment around free textbooks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122386	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrg, for the next debate in which GLAS Club and HSU respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We in GLAS and HSU do not have the main objections to what exists in the text of the law, but in the first order what is not in the text of the law or as the basis of the text of the law, and we believe that it should be. First in the second reading of the corner. the law is the same as in the first one, maybe some minor supplements were entered, but as far as I can see it is the same, so actually the same comments and the same debate would almost be worth the second reading as we had in the first reading. So instead of repeating my first-reading debate, I'm going to say some things about this law that we think are either problematic or that the law should somehow cover them either as its component, or as a prerequisite. Therefore, the main question of what is not in this law, and what should be meaningful, should be the concept of content served in textbooks or presented to students. In order to have this concept of content, it takes some basis, it takes a concept to say that I do not repeat all those words that we have used a lot of content that will be taught and an idea that will be transmitted is needed clearly to have a picture on which then knowledge is selected and transmitted to students in the class. And yet to give in and use that word, in other words, you need curricular reform. It's the concept of what you learn at school. You talk a lot about it, and I think it's good, and I don't support these information-related remarks. I think we all have to get used to the fact that the kids went ahead and they use pills and use cell phones, etc. for information and that already young children are peeing on screens, trying to find some contents. And if anything with such an approach may be equating or contributing to the equality of information literacy between children in larger communities, so in towns and children in smaller environments that may not be so accessible. So as far as you're concerned, it's not something we should reject or criticize. Our opinion is that what we should criticise is that there is no concept of what will be written or read on these tablets. And what they will convey to these disciples. Kuricular reform, as it is known, exists. There is text Budak Jokić and associates who defined content, access to content, content selection, the whole big job. You can say we perform from this concept of textbooks, the concept of the content of what is transmitted through these pills, or we reject it and perform it from something else, it's absolutely legitimate to say, but you have to say from what you're doing. So if this concept is not available to you, it's elaborated and can be used then I guess it's something else. But what else is that? It's not familiar to us, it's never been presented, or maybe you're not doing it out of anything. But first you define the tools and then you define the contents. It's a pretty dangerous approach, because however sophisticated the information level at which, which they use at school or on which you rely in the setting is the old garbag rule in, garbag out. In other words, if you put garbage into that system, or bad content, the same bad content will come out. Just the fact that it's not on the board and the chalk, but it's on the screen as far as content is concerned, it doesn't do anything. What will children learn and how to get out of school and with which intellectual instrument, with which knowledge will come out of school does not say anything. What new brings again that I do not repeat the debate from the first reading that is, the same applies to this because it is the same, what is new in this law? I'd say the main novelty that brings is to limit the price of textbooks and the weight of textbooks. This weight thing is almost realistic. So in the Ministry, your associates are working on textbooks to determine how much they can strive in case everything goes to pills anyway, that's irrelevant. In a situation where textbooks should be able to stay in school in the majority of their ability, it is also irrelevant. But what's going to be the content of these textbooks, what they're going to write is no one's scale, no one has determined in any way how these committees will be selected, these people who will write or select textbooks, consensators except that they must not be one and the same people or relatives connected. It's clear to me that in this situation it's not easy for you because you don't have many allies, you don't have an ally or an opposition, but as far as I can tell, you don't have an ally in power. However, the team has nothing left to lose. So it would be in my opinion rationally here on your part to offer a whole concept, offer one vision of content, so if they reject it, they rejected it on something important and not on general antipathy. They dropped him on something that makes sense, something that's your point of view about content. We can agree with that, me or anyone else can agree to it or be generous against it but at least then it's about something that a man has advocated, exposed it makes sense, changes the content of what he teaches or talks about at school, so on the shield or on the shield, so you win or lose. Informing in our opinion is a good thing, we're not against it, but content is the only thing that makes that information meaningful or pointless, and that's why I think you should decide to suggest something in that sense, something that has content, something that's tangible and will bring some practical change. I will take advantage of this opportunity to give some criticism from another perspective, namely, excuse me, however technically advanced, informically advanced the textbooks, however precise their physical weight, however limited the prices, however much additional freedoms are given to the minister and the ministry to determine and define these catalogues and speed up the whole procedure, in a situation where teachers and teachers are obviously exposed to really impossible conditions seem in many situations, exposed to pressures not only in class and inability to maintain normal conditions in the class, but also pressures by parents, all of this falls into water. Of course, any kind of physical abuse against students is not acceptable, but therefore, if we want to talk about the method then we really need to come up with ways and methods so that without physical abuse in the class in school can preserve the dignity of professors and teachers, we can either keep it from attacking students, pressures by parents from inability to maintain discipline, because without it and I would say that in this respect being alone in my own way to say so to the original teacher career, without it even making substantial changes fall into the water and don't mean anything. And let alone whether you teach it or pass it through tablets or tablets or tiles. So, if there is no possibility of achieving not only the normal conditions in the class, and this really goes with the definition of both discipline and work and all other conditions that teachers and teachers have at their disposal, without it there is no possibility of passing on knowledge not only for purely ordinary technical reasons that people do not listen to you or students or children at school do not listen to screams, there is no concentration on what is said but is also because teachers and teachers do not respect them. And if you don't respect teachers and teachers, how will you respect the knowledge they convey to you? And it seems to me that the topic that we should be very seriously dealing with is not as a scheinhaichfeler, so it's like some kind of cosmetic improvement, but as the core of the problem, like what's based on the ability of school and teachers to learn. We gave you some suggestions in our first reading, and I can see that you haven't been overly impressed, so if none of this was included in this second reading, we won't be able to support this and this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122388	I thank my dear colleague Vesni Pusic, before continuing the discussion at the gallery, we were joined by students and students of the Biograd high school at sea and their professors and professors, so I warmly welcome them and want a pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. I thank you on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122389	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Divjak with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, here at the very beginning, first of all, I would like to join in welcoming our students who have come to visit us. Therefore, as we see before us the final proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school in its final form, I would like to remind you that this bill has therefore received a positive opinion from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it was also discussed by the majority of votes by the parent Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I will remind you at the beginning that the issue of textbooks for primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia, for the first time regulated by the existing ones, is still valid by the law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools in 2010, and this law has so far had one change that was more structural than content. And the existing law regulates the process of listing, counting elections and withdrawing from the use of textbooks, I am now talking about this law, this proposal of textbooks and additional funds, as well as the regulation of the approval and use of auxiliary, teaching means for primary and secondary school students, and also the financing of the purchase of textbooks and supplementary teaching tools, the means from the state budget, and, among the intentions of the basics, the adoption of this law, I point out that, above all, for a clearer and more quality adjustment of the way to approve textbooks and other educational materials that monitors the real needs of the school system. Then also edit the procedure of approval, inclusion in the selection catalogue and withdrawal from the use of textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school students and, of course, to settle issues related to changes to textbooks which are therefore foreseen by curricular reform, at the level of primary and secondary schools. And likewise, this law regulates the procedure of approval and inclusion in the catalogue of elections and withdrawal from the use of textbooks and other educated materials and that is why I initially mentioned the previous law. We are in force and we still have a few days until this law is passed on to the current Law on textbooks, therefore, from the very name clear Law on textbooks, while today we are discussing the Law on textbooks and other educational materials, and in that sense we are also talking about all those accompanying materials and among other things, the digital contents that follow textbooks. Similarly, this proposal gives the Minister responsible for Education the opportunity for the catalogue of mandatory textbooks and of all additional supplementary, i.e., educational means for each class, i.e. for individual catalogue programmes... with the intention of making it easier to adapt catalogues a real need for textbooks in primary and secondary schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the possibility of inheriting those printed textbooks that are not of a working character, with the exception of certain classes in the elementary school course, where this is necessary for the development of skills, some skills among students and, of course, since work textbooks cannot be inherited, is open to the possibility that they should be selected each year, just as I said, shortens and simplifies the procedure for the approval and selection of textbooks, which should be carried out in the same year and within 6 months. during the period from cutting to decommissioning of the current year and, of course, new titles would have been in use as early as September. And what is new in relation to the current situation, this law therefore, additional and auxiliary means of teaching become other educational materials, which will be made possible for use, and their use will be decided by the school, i.e. teachers and teachers, which further enables increased autonomy, the use of teaching, different supplementary and additional teaching materials for teachers themselves. Of course, the law and digital transformation of students are encouraged, and what we have already pointed out several times by law is regulated in addition to the mass and the maximum permitted price of textbooks. And now we know that on the subject of this law, we have held a series of consultations, both with our cotation partners and with the proposer, i.e. the ministry, related not only to the observations of the parent board on education, science and culture, but also to the proposals of individual parliamentary representatives. And here's what brings the final version of the law, so what are the differences between the first reading and here, the proposal of the final version of the law, so first of all, I'm going to try to number them, so in Art. 3. The concept of textbooks is defined in a way that, unlike the first version, first reading, the textbook becomes a compulsory educational material and challenge of objects with a heavy reflective component, and this material serves as a whole choice for the achievement of all educational outcomes, determined by the curricula in question, for each class and subject. And of course the rest is the definition that the textbook can be either printed or electronic. Equally, educational subjects, classes in which textbooks will be used will be defined by the Regulation. Furthermore, we have accepted an objection related to the Article. Paragraph 1 relating to the revision and calculation of the price according to the linearity principle, taking into account the number of mandatory hours, the hours of mandatory items, as well as the number of cases in different classes. In this respect, the coefficient in the formula was changed to calculate the maximum price allowed, in such a way that the coefficients for 5 and 6 and 7 and 8 of the class were aligned with the coefficient for class teaching by coloring with the number of hours and the number of objects. And of course according to that, changes are coefficients in the formula in art. 4 paragraph 1 of the final draft law. The share of the price of the electronic part of the textbook, in the total price of the textbook, shall be cut off by a Regulation in accordance with the components of the electronic textbook referred to in paragraph 4. Equally in art. 6 The procedure for reviewing other educational materials is defined in such a way that it is prescribed that the Agency responsible for education is obliged to give the authorisation for publication within 30 days and based on the opinion of the Expert Committee for the Assessment of these content, we consider this change to be very important and very important in relation to the previous version, first version, first reading where such content should not have passed any filters, we believe that this is very important. In addition, the following article is added in a way to add an indent in paragraph 5, stating the summary of the review to be annexed to ensure that the application of the textbook is provided also with this important document and, of course, the time limit for the submission of textbooks to a public call in Article 6(4) has been increased to at least 90 days and, of course, a transitional provision stipulating that the deadlines for submission and for giving an expert opinion on the compliance of textbooks are set out in Article 8(1) for the school year 2018/2019. the year to be 60 days from the date of receipt of the application. And, of course, Article 16 provides for the authority of the Government of the Republic to decide, in accordance with the financial means available, on the co-financing of the purchase of textbooks and other educational materials. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to co-finance procurement and other educational materials in electronic form has also been prescribed to encourage digital transformation in schools. Further to this, Article 16 adds paragraph 7 which states that the school will adopt a decision on the use of commercial and other educational materials by 15 July at the latest, which we also consider important and of course explain the procedure for authorising the publication of other educational materials in the virtual repository and the details will be prescribed by the Regulation, which we also find extremely important. And, of course, in order to clarify the concepts of educational subjects within the meaning of this law, the definition of a subject with a weighted educational component has been transferred from Article 16 to Article 3 and it is said, therefore, that the textbooks are not mandatory for these items and the emphasis is placed on other educational materials, where the items with the highlighted educational component in which the textbooks will be used will be defined by the Regulation. So, in conclusion, on the basis of all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, and I stress that HDZ is aware of the fact that we live in the 21st century, it is aware that we live in a society strongly marked by the trend of digitisation that we cannot deny or avoid, but we also stress that in accordance with all the trends I repeat, which we must be aware and which we must be aware of, digitalisation, the information of the school must be well prepared, well structured, it must not be broken over our knees just to collect political points, it must be carried out in controlled conditions and it does not sharpen the material status of schools, it is not a burden on the material equipment of the school in order that we do not really come in to follow Maria Antoane's trail, that we do not have any of the bread, but we have to say a lot of the digitality. We are also reminding, so here is the minister that somehow the project of transitioning our school to work in one shift that makes it possible for better quality of work in our institutions, remained in the shadows and remained somewhere on the side, we are discussing a lot of other things and this is left on the side, and we also consider it necessary to consider and focus on the possibility of free textbooks, of course that we support this idea but equally there we think that we need to come up with a good model in cooperation together, that it is necessary to discuss it, listen to each other, respect each other and, of course, everything that brings this law into practice and its implications in practice will very quickly show time, very quickly, and then we will be able to possibly discuss what the practice shows and what will in practice be needed to change or fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122390	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Party of Labour and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives, Honored colleague Rechimer Varda, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122391	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. And so on and on my replica, I think that we here in the Assembly are all, in our best interest, discussing legal proposals so that they can be as good as possible and in practice, but normally, I don't come from an educational mile, so given the conditions in which we work as representatives, you collect information from professionals who can help you think when you express your views, they don't always have to be your way, but it's good to listen to them and to think about it. Namely, I'll start with the next one, I have to cut short, I've got a lot of it. Since the last amendments and the addition of the laws on education and education that we brought in July 13th of this year. The 3rd century 5 states that the national curricula and the framework national curricula document are made by the minister by decision. Dear Ministers, Amendments and additions to the same law in 2008, 2012 and 2013 were not this, for me a very important word-of-decision, made by the Minister by a decision. I'm sorry he's not listening, but well, he has an opinion on it. So it turns out that you as the current minister remain the only person responsible for the national curricula and the framework national curricula, so from here on out, don't let God mean that you're falling behind someone's lobby, or that tomorrow the famous notion of squires that we had in one of the educated reforms are replaced by some other concepts because, in fact, by amending that law that we adopted in the 7th month. to take on such responsibility. Furthermore, the logical question is whether the cheaper and easier textbook is by determining the weight of the student bag that we talked about in the first reading of the bill's proposal, whether it goes to the heart of the educational subjects. I believe that just now the educational component of the education system remains the biggest problem in the school that the case in Čakovec has witnessed and the testimony of many very painful behaviours of students to teachers and teachers. So we could agree that this is not only a problem of teaching but also of raising that was brought from somewhere else, but the school is an educational and educational institution. By the way, I am taking the opportunity, even if it is not the subject of this law, that your ministry should take all measures to ensure that changes in the criminal law provide teachers and teachers with the status of a served person, as is the case with medical staff. As we understand it, the change of the electronic textbook or its part, in which we have referred in the light of the amendments that our club has submitted, is not justified or acceptable. The law sets out the procedure for possible changes and there is no room for different treatment of these textbooks. On the contrary, this opens up the possibility of certain manipulations, even open favors, to the creators of electronic textbooks that could thus change them without the prescribed procedure after the end of each teaching year. Such action is a diametrical opposite of what the law determines for printed textbooks and its modification and use. So, the duration of so-called. paper textbook is 4 years, and licences of electronic versions 1 year. Isn't forced digitisation and over-information hiding in the story of easy and cheap textbooks, while there's something else in the background? As regards the price, the prices of the electronic part of the textbook in the first draft law, therefore, in the first reading, you had that price at most 20% of the printed textbooks of art. 3st century. 6th century. In the final bill of law, and you say you're setting the maximum price, that percentage is missing. And you say in the final draft of the law, that for textbooks consisting of a printed or electronic part, the share of the price of the electronic part of the textbook will be arranged by the Minister. That's what's causing the doubt. So, if we're talking about the price and we're affecting the highest price possible, then please, which is why, in the final draft of the law, you left out this maximum price of an electronic textbook, by the rules of the minister. You're still saying that without the textbook, there's no curricular reform. I'm not, I said, an education expert, but logic tells me, no curricula has no textbooks. So we should first determine the curricula and then give printing any form of textbooks. Which doesn't go. And you're saying, without this textbook law, there's no curricula. I'm sorry, it doesn't make sense. That doesn't make any sense to me. In fact, we've introduced a school for life. It's going on somewhere, I don't know, three and a half months. Do we have an evaluation of that school for life? If you started it, it's a very short period so you can get results that will finally give us what kind of curricula should look like for that school for life. And then, based on that, determine what it's going to look like and in what form of textbooks. That makes sense to me, maybe not to you, but I don't see any other logic. The results of this evaluation, I don't know if you have them, are not shown to us, are not shown to us, and on the other hand, some neuroscientists and psychologists from prominent universities dealing with child development psychology warn about the fact that digitisation of the learning process needs to be done with caution. It is not the same if it applies to pupils of the first or fourth grade primary school or to pupils in high school. So far, we've been talking about guessing a publishing lobby. Now, I'm asking the question if we're introducing in this new IT, the IT industry lobby, and who's actually going to pay you for the cost of the experiment after they've dried up the EU funds. My colleagues here were talking about the number I don't know about pills, smartphones, computers, 370, 317.000 is just elementary school kids. If we put students of better material status in a more favourable position than those of the poorer.../incomprehensible/... that we do not say that internet coverage in Croatia is not equal and will thus profit children from developed environments at the expense of those less developed. The Constitution guaranteed the right to education under equal conditions, and this proposal for a law we deepen seems to me to be a mere within the availability of education, and therefore we have made an amendment precisely to the fact that textbooks go to the burden of the state budget for basic school. Dear Minister, a few words about the dual education system, and it's about the textbooks again. For this school year, you've made a reform through the modernisation of content for some three-year professions, cosmetologist, smoker, glassman, seller. The modernization of content has thrown out teaching subjects, so because of the weight tomorrow, which are considered part of the general subjects of history, biology, geography because it does not matter that the chimney understands the time and space in which it is ordered, it is. I agree that professional content is important, but the future chimney will be a citizen of Croatia and Europe and of the global world. It is hardly the hours of practice that will help him to find social and economic developments that surround him. The truth is that our students in elementary school have a large number of general content, but they need to strive their entire lives for learning, so students at 12 and 16 are not the same people and their experiences of the world are different, and the task of modern school is to teach students to think and learn in the woods of information. So, of the general subjects in vocational schools, they remained Croatian, part of the mathematics that is packed into mathematics in the profession, physical and health culture and religious science. So far, three-year-old schools have had class history in the first grade, and the content was Croatian history, which is now not available. Of course, teaching curricula should not be done because of the staff of teachers because they can requalify informers as it is publicly said, but in any case you should consider teaching values that are adopted in the formative age of young people from 14, 15 to 17, 18. In any case, the school should continue to be an educational institution, and we will hardly have the professional content, that professional content will reduce violence and intolerance among people, young people. You'd stop there, and I'd continue in an individual debate because I don't have enough time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122392	I thank my esteemed colleague, Rechimer Vardi. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122393	I thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, Madam Minister with Associates, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS in the first reading supported the bill but we pointed out some ambiguities and proposed some of the possible solutions, so here is everything in order to make the most of the final proposal. We have a clear intention to contribute to a clearer and more quality arrangement of the way textbooks and other educational materials follow the real needs of the school system. This is, therefore, the first step in bringing modern trends closer to European trends, so that promotes and autonomy in schools, and we can accept that. The draft law will also include textbooks only in the catalogue, while additional teaching aids become other educational materials and will thus benefit from what I said was the practice of EU countries. Commercial and other educational materials will be located in the virtual repository, and will pass the verification of the agencies of compliance of other educational materials with scientific principles and ethical norms, so that the pedagogical, psychological and didactic, are methodically suitable for use in the course and according to the outcomes of the curricula. That's definitely what we think is right, and so it's kind of like this, it's kind of control, so it's what the agency needs to do. The possibility of using free and other educational materials will therefore not be formally approved and will be decided by the school, the school or teachers will decide in accordance with the requirements of the curricula, and I believe that it is high time that truly educators or teachers have this one autonomy and, of course, it depends on the person to the person and the whole process of learning and teaching depends on professors to professors. The new law will allow the Education Minister to open a catalogue each year for individual classes or programmes to adapt them to the real needs of textbooks. My question therefore referred to how these actual needs would be determined, whether it would be the duty of professional actors to collect data from the field which will therefore be processed and interpreted, because Article 6(1) of the proposed law states that the Ministry of Education intends to modify the catalogue, so that it shows a public call in which textbooks can be submitted after the textbook has been in use for at least 4 years unless the curricula changes are required, therefore no earlier amendment is required. Changes in the curricula or judgment of the ministry to initiate the procedure is actually from above but the observed shortcomings on the ground are from below and the disadvantage of textbooks to the needs of teachers or teachers, the student will therefore be transferred to the Ministry. By which criteria other than the evaluation changes in the curricula will be determined after 4 years, whether a new textbook is needed. So it's one of the concerns we've seen in this bill. We welcomed the fact that the law for the first time defines the maximum price allowed for the mass of textbook sets per grade, and it is certainly an effort to reduce the weight of the school bag, and of course we are all interested in it. The law provides for the possibility of inheriting printed textbooks that are not working characters. The exception are individual subjects in the classroom of elementary school where necessary, where this is necessary due to the development of students' skills. When it comes to restrictions on the making of textbooks in addition to the taxing principles, as we had the opportunity to hear how the Committee reacted, it is important to point out that the content of the textbooks should be in line with scientifically based facts, this is really important because it should be available today and developed in children and young people above all critical thinking and the ability to identify and distinguish data based on science and in my replica, I received the answer, that this will be governed by the Regulation. I will say a few things when it comes to the education of minorities, i.e. in the language and letter of national minorities. Therefore, Article 11 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and Article 6 of the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, the Ministry is obliged to establish and adopt a part of the Educational Plan and Programme, which, in addition to the general part, is necessarily contained and part of which is related to the specificity of the national minority. So, the native language, literature, history, geography, visual and musical culture, or art. We also pointed out in the previous debate, the necessity of cooperation with the institutions of minority communities in the development of these programmes, and therefore their application in schools. We have highlighted the problem in the design of curricula and programs and the approval of new textbooks without which there is no quality teaching, of course at all, but also teaching in the language and letter of national minorities. Qualityd curricula and programmes can be expected and implemented including, therefore, close and necessary cooperation with teachers and teachers from so-called teaching in minority language, or from the order of members of national minorities. In the realization of mandatory curricula and programmes, and to the national group of subjects, national minorities have so-called built-in content up to 30%, relating to national history, geography, music and art culture. When it comes to the Serb national minority, no captain has been defined so far for such content, and the contents are not defined or we do not have written curricula for some items and certainly it is before, that it is necessary to resolve it as soon as possible. We therefore stressed the importance and need to co-finance the whole process, the difference due to the price of therefore a small burden on the Serbian language and, therefore, that whole national group of cases. We also pointed out that in Article 11, the proposal regulates the use of textbooks made in the language and letter of national minorities, and that it is necessary to foresee and regulate the possibility that exceptional cases the Minister of Education can authorise the use of a new textbook for members of national minorities. Also, one element that is certainly possible, in this legislative proposal is nevertheless neglected, it is, it is written by hand and we consider that writing by hand, assembling whole texts, meaningful structures, using pens and paper is necessary as one didactic element and it is not only, writing is therefore not just a language and thought exercise, but also a motor one, and certainly it is relevant for the development of a child, from here our idea, which as we see not accepted, to consider the possibility of using electronic textbooks, therefore, these materials after the 4th grade of elementary school. What is appreciated, our suggestion which has been respected refers, therefore, to the catalogue containing the names of the reviewer who carried out the methodical and professional review, it is therefore accepted, and is said to be said to be applying, applying the textbook also adds a summary of methodical and professional reviews. At the end of my presentation, I'll just say that, I don't know if it's usual, I hope the chairman won't mind, but I'll look back briefly on the statement, on the discussion of my colleague Hrga, which referred to the transfer of founding rights to local self-government units, which I also absolutely support, and when it comes to the Club of National Minorities, there are absolute allies in us, and when it comes to the transfer of founding rights and that Article 96, paragraph 3, so we have one discriminatory example that happens in Vukovar-Srijem County. So, where we have an unequal practice of transfer of founding rights, within 21 days of the submission of the application for the transfer of the founding rights of the city of Vukovar, the total transfer is completed, and in the case of three municipalities inhabited by the Serb community, it is almost four years that the requirements are not decided. At present, the so-called credible interpretation of the Committee on Education is required, and there is, therefore, a completely uncomfortable situation, almost discriminatory character and I, behold, sincerely hope that these irregularities will change, and some way to prevent the self-will of individual legislators who interpret the Law as they really consider it best without the idea that there is an opportunity for such interpretation to be sanctioned. I hope that this request from the Vukovar-Srijem County for credible interpretation will soon be found at a session of the Assembly Committee, and that this will be decided in the way it was done and when it comes to the city of Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122394	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dragani Jeckov. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP representative's club, respected colleague Sabina Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. The respected ministers with their associates, after first reading, are very few remarks, not only of us from the SDP, but of the general parliamentary representatives who have been respected and implemented in the Final Proposal for the Law on textbooks in this second reading. I must admit that I am not surprised by this, it has unfortunately become a practice in the Ministry of Science and Education, that in fact these discussions in HS are conducted and possible remarks and attempts to correct the final proposal of the law are generally taken rather personally and do not take one serious and constructive way. However, regardless, on behalf of the SDP advocates' club, I will warn the public about the reasons why we cannot support such a final bill. What you yourself have stated is that by proposing this Law, in fact, that this is some kind of mission of yours, both you and the Ministry to introduce the Croatian education system in the 21st century, that the bill guarantees more quality textbooks, greater freedom of choice, protection of home budget and budget, and relieves the student of unnecessary content, so let's keep it in order. This Law does not guarantee better textbooks by us, in addition to the fact that you have decided to form a unique world in accordance with the weight of textbooks. So, you as the Ministry of Education should be the last Ministry to present a certain law in a populist way, the type that this Law will allow cheaper textbooks and easier bags, it is something that we may also be able to bear to come from some other ministries, but not from the Ministry of Education such superficial arguments, in fact, what this Law bears, and you haven't been libilizing them as key elements since the very beginning when the Law was created and that's how you actually communicate, that this Law puts you on the hands of students and their parents because you will guarantee easier bags and cheaper textbooks. Afterwards, we'll show that that's not true, and that's where you fooled the public. But I'm saying, the Ministry of Education should stay away from these superficial, flat-rate, cheap piar tricks that will be presented by a certain law. The Ministry of Education should be the one to promote education, which should promote access not to judge the book by its cover, but by its content, and then should not agree to it, and even less to propose in its legislative proposal, the final legislative proposal that the price of textbooks, for example, and its financial weight, will be determined according to its weight, or kilograms or grams. It's something that's outrageous, something outrageous, and it definitely won't guarantee the quality of the textbook. The profession, the people who understand themselves a little bit more in this than I do, don't just accuse me of being written by the publishers, they didn't write to me by professors because here anyone who directs or in public space any objection to this Act, you and the Priors immediately declare it an enemy of public interest because you perceive yourself as a protector of public interest, anyone who questions any item of the Law in this public space these days, these months, have shown it as some kind of exhibit of certain interest groups, which, in fact, in a lot of cases, may have, but you can't generalize it in such a way, it's not nice or cultural. So people who understand this more than we do say that limiting the price of textbooks will not necessarily reduce parents' costs if the textbooks receive an electronic or digital component. Namely, in the case of electronic parts of the textbooks, a new cost arises for parents to obtain and maintain table, portable and tablet computers for children who are schooled, and for poorer parents and the purchase of connections, as well as home Internet subscription, has already been discussed here in HS. This can especially affect parents with a number of children who will not be able to use one computer at the same time to use the digital components of the textbook, but may need to get additional computers. Secondly, limiting the price of textbooks will not necessarily have positive effects for the state budget if the state budget funds will co-finance the acquisition of these same table, portable or computer tablets for schools that will use digital textbooks and content in the classroom. Without further separation from the state budget or the use of EU funds, it will not be possible in all cases that have digital components of textbooks to use such content in the teaching of schools. With these two arguments I just wanted to deny, there is no minister, she doesn't care what we have to say, anyway the law is how it got into the Parliament, so it will come out, no matter what we're talking about here, but actually these two arguments that say profession, actually we're just denying your thesis that in this way you're going to protect the home budget and the Croatian budget, it's simply not true and there's nothing wrong with it if it will contribute to the quality of the Croatian education system, if it costs, some cost, but it should be honest with the public, and not to deceive the Croatian public. Also, this does not guarantee better-quality textbooks, something said by counterpart Pusic and other colleagues on behalf of the club. So it's content that does the textbooks, and we're not talking about content through this law. We have the content where people worked for a year and professions have curricular documents that we don't know what's going on, we don't know how all those conclusions were implemented, which we got from public and professional discussions and actually guarantee the quality of the content, and therefore the textbooks by this ministry don't exist, especially because they question the whole concept of full curricula reform, which is, in the meantime, being overloaded into something else. And actually in a non-transparent way, the public has no way of tracking what's going on in that part. So we're also advocating this argument by saying that you're going to relieve students of unnecessary content, come on, how? By law on textbooks, you will relieve students of unnecessary content, so this is about curricula and new teaching I will not tell the plans, but it is about curricula, not the Law on textbooks. So, but this opening part, where you tell us what good it will bring us, the Law on textbooks is actually full of falseness, and it does not give us confidence, especially when it comes from the Ministry of Education, which should also be given to our educational institutions, and to employees in educational institutions, and to parents and to the public, to promote a different concept, a concept full of content, a concept based on truth, on transparency and responsibility, and that is not good at all. That we are not talking about culture, but I suppose it is no coincidence that the minister leaves this assembly at the moment when the SDP Clubs and among others seem to me to be the Milan Bandic Club, because there is no way to hide the anger, that he actually succeeded in one minute, steal the show by providing free textbooks for all elementary schoolers, and the minister is working so hard with her team these years, two, that she actually leaves this one good impression in public, where she is fortunate to have so much energy in the contents and in the quality work of the ministry, and in the documents that come before the Croatian Parliament. What's also in this law is said to ensure the succession of textbooks, it's simply not true. Inheritance of textbooks every 4 years is selected new textbooks, in the meantime the succession of textbooks is possible since 2010. It is said that this law will ensure the freedom of the teacher to choose himself, i.e. create whether he will use the workbook collections, etc. No, I don't. Freedom would have been if you had opened space like in Finland, that some history teachers, look, I don't need a textbook at all, I'm a walking textbook. Either if a teacher from someone, or a teacher from some class said that I don't need a textbook I need a work book, I need a manual, I need a task collection. No, you've determined that no one needs a work book, that no one needs a math collection, that they need a textbook, and then you say we want to avoid a invoice, not textbooks are places where it's actually a fact of fiction. A good teacher or teacher is a walking textbook. And the workbooks and the task collections are additional teaching tools that continue on that textbook and serve exactly that key part of the course that students practice, perfect, receive feedback, do something for themselves to see how to apply what the textbook gave him in printed form, tomorrow in an electronic or its walking textbook that is his teacher or teacher. That's the point, but you've decided on one without any relevant evaluations, without any analysis, without any scientific grounds, to facilitate the bags in a way that you'll throw out work notes and collections. Well, it's the easiest way to ease the bags. But you could have handled it in a way that shared these work notes, into those for the first term, those for the second half, so it would be easier, if it's so important to you or to secure boxes in schools so that children can leave it in schools, not only that, but also their textbooks if they don't need them. To regulate for the first time the most price of textbooks, it is also not true, because in 2014 the price of the kit textbooks was reduced by 15-20%, the kits were also easier by 2 kg, the number of textbooks and additional curricula in elementary schools by 8 subjects, in secondary schools by 6 subjects, while the minister was Jovanovic, the number of titles was reduced by 51, the number of envelope formats from 100 to 12 acres by 10%, was prescribed to a smaller amount of paper, but it was done in collaboration with the profession, agreed, systematicly and analytically, analytically and held water. You say, you don't know how much pomp around a technical law like this, so you're a little contradictory, dia two days ago you said that without this law, when you threatened and had a public idea, you threatened to get out of the coalition, blackmailed that you'd get out, even though the whole public knew you had no reason to go out, because without that coalition and the authorities, in fact your party doesn't unfortunately exist, but you said that without this law, there's no legislative reform. First of all, this law has nothing to do with the sustainability of full curricula reform, only if we mention that it is a complete curricula reform, what this Croatian Parliament prescribes is that it unites itself and reform content and teaches monitoring and evaluation, and then only the last instruments and tools, and textbooks are only instruments and tools, they are an instrument, but they must not be the goal and the only meaning, and you have reduced that to it. And thirdly, I wouldn't say that it's that technical, because buying 3 billion kuna information equipment from EU funds and another 450 million kuna from our pockets until 2023, I don't think it's that technical thing, and some can mean a job of life. So it's not this, this law is as technical as it's been wanting to be shown in the last few days. I don't really see what you've brought new to this law, except that you're going to create a platform for digitisation and school pillation, for the introduction of educational content, for which I have nothing, but I'm appealing from this payphone to make sure that this procedure is kept up to the limit transparent, that it doesn't cast a shadow on such a quick law making and that this law doesn't turn out to be passed just for that reason because someone in it sees space and a platform for the work of the century. And finally, no new idea of education of the future and of the digital society as well as the entry of that society and application into Croatian schools was created in this ministry during Mrs Divjak, the Education, Science and Technology Strategy, Objective 5. HS has already been defined for modernising teaching processes and teaching itself, as well as school management. Also, by an e-school project declared a national project, we have defined ourselves. However, slightly different dynamics than you do, but it means nothing here spectacularly happens with these laws. However, he is unspeakable, he will not guarantee a higher quality of textbooks and he has come across great resistance to the profession because in such a brutal way, that you have completely ousted them, decided some things on their behalf, and there is a concern that this will undermine the quality of the educational process and that, unfortunately, you did not respect the good practice of dialogue with those with whom you should conduct dialogue when you adopt such laws, which are those to which the law applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122396	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the club of HNS representative colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122397	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Let's just say one thing clearly, maybe make it easy on someone else. Supporting this law does not mean that you support the CNS or the reason HSN enters the government. Let me get this straight. That's not it. Don't bear that burden, don't be afraid of it. Let's try more about content, try what's right in front of us. This law discusses textbooks and materials complemented, or working, together called other educational materials. Why does it matter? When we talk about content, you can't do reform without certain steps. ... It's surprising that some people here don't know now, but since 15.11. this year in public consultation on the subject of curricula and inter-species, so today you can check it out, see what more there, make comments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's content. How to implement this content? Well, it's a textbook that needs to be reprinted and reprinted. How do you get to the textbook? Through the Law on textbooks and other teaching materials. One pulls after the other. He says, "This isn't about content." Well, no, don't talk. Says here you don't talk about quality. No, if we don't think about the technical performance of the book itself, the grammar, the kind of paper, etc., but yes, we're talking about something that matters to our citizens, to our children. Are the bags going to go too far or not? Is it gonna be harder books or not? How many books are there going to be or not? The fact is, yes, so far, no maximum price and weight has been established by law, now this is the first time the law has been laid down. Why? Not then, the minister comes, the other goes, one comes, so now he's going to make a deal with the profession or the publishers, and I don't know how he's going to do it, which way he's going to do it. And a very interesting situation in history, which can certainly teach us. When we talk about the maximum price, we had a situation that certain counties co-financed the interurban transportation of high school students. And look at the wonders, the state decides, seven, eight years ago, in one year, maybe pre-election, now the state will pay for it. You know what was the effect of that? 20-30% were more expensive than the same transport line. And more, that's right. That's because the state said, she'll pay. And when there was a market, there was a lower price. It's in our mentality. Here we have a law that says, regardless of whether it will be, the state will provide books or the parents will have to buy books, it's the maximum price based on certain amounts. When it comes to additional teaching aids that become actually other educational materials, i.e. working notes, I am now looking at the SDP representative's proposal from the first reading, that, apart from textbooks and work notebooks, they be part of a mandatory set which, as so far, would be approved by the ministry. Now I hear a colleague that she wants the textbooks not to be part of the mandatory. A little while ago, if you were... teachers who are walking books. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's, like, not clear to me. This is the ministry's refusal, and between the two readings we wanted to prescribe the workbooks as a mandatory part, and now in the second reading we honor the government for why they put the textbooks as an educational part, interesting. And what's the point of all this? More autonomy to teachers. It's made very clearly. So this is the first step towards that approach, because I think the minister said, she compared different European countries that have no formal part at all, which have some part, etc., I think this is the best, right now, and that step that we have to go from reregulated to that more liberal, or to greater autonomy for teachers. Because I said it in the replica, and if you don't trust the CNS, so, okay, your right, I can and understand, we're going to have to justify our trust with the citizens and do it every day. But to teachers who choose which workbooks, which supplemental funds they want, will not, to what extent, I don't see why it's a problem for them to give it to them and why this suddenly doesn't work out. So here we have some thesis in past discussions that we have the interests of children, the interests of teachers, the interests of the future, education and can clearly see the legitimate interests of publishers, those who work for profit. 'Cause you know, they're shrinking books and they're getting fucked, so they're probably getting less profit, so it's not in their best interests. So then it comes to the second part, when we talk from that virtual repositories or virtual editions of books, which is the price ratio relative to printed and virtually. So imagine now, you have the price of a book that's like 50 kuna and the ministry says that this virtual part that someone wants to use because they can choose another book or at school level is going to be 20% of that price. And the publishers want them to determine so they say, you see in 50 kuna the printed part is 10 kuna and the virtual 40 that they all have to take,... Please, and some may want it here and out of which interest, then surely it is not of the interest to raise and educate children and their well-being. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because someone can't tell me that hitting lobbys and making bigger money goes in the child's best interests. When we talk about conditions here, yes, what we should do now, because we have conditions in schools like they are, we need nothing to do but wait for a construction operation to arrange for us to have school minors for children who won't even be, and let them learn by what they learned 50 years ago because that's why we're doing nothing. So of course we have to go side by side, that we can't do this without each other and that we need to determine if our priority is what we can do, now or what needs to be done for the next 5, 10 years, and let's not tell me this first 5, 10 years, so in 10 years, we're going to talk about a kind of software when we make hardware, or curricula, about how to think, how to learn and change that part. So, strictly, why is this important to the curricula reform? Given the procedure for approving and selecting textbooks that are not simple, which just wants what, the new content that speaks of quality to be implemented in printed editions, in e-issues, and to be ready for the next school year. 'Cause we're free of it if we can't do it, if the kids don't have anything to learn from. When we talk about materials, tablets, anything that can be used, the first and primary goal that they can have available in schools, to equip these schools, to have available there, then in the second step that they can have all that and carry it and have it home to ensure them. Well, of course, any proposal that's welcome here to give free textbooks, free pills, anything that's possible about education is welcome to me. I wish we and our partners hadn't increased this budget by half a billion, or if they were textbooks by 700 million, but by a billion and a half. But it's not real right now. We're going in the frames of a possible one, I don't think anyone here is against it. In particular, class classes from first to fourth grade, a total of 18 hours teaching 7 mandatory items, the highest price of 10% media pay in the Republic of Croatia. The price of the 361 kuna textbook kit was now up to 407, depending on the class of the set. Working materials from repositories up to 100 kuna, price, or weight of bags up to 3 kg, in accordance with the provisions of the World Health Organization, etc., etc., clear, clear. If we look at the class in question from 5th to 6th. 22 to 23 hours teaching, 10 mandatory items, price 14%... on wages, meaning mandatory items 636 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Working materials up to 210. etc. So what's important is that you don't minimalize this, at one point you're saying that this isn't so crucial, that the content is important, everything is important, every step in the curricula reform is important, every component is important if you want to do what is right and what is. And once again I say, on 15.11. he was released into public consultation on the curricula in question and on inter-species issues. That's the content and that's what we want to implement in these laws that will allow us in, new books and a new way of changing these books in accordance with, so 4 years won't change unless the curricula changes. We've now had a situation that when a book is issued to you whatever's wrong, if it's gone to get through, there's no going back. Well, then you have press reports, reports, how some inappropriate things are dogmatic, whatever things you want in books, but you can't change it because the law didn't give you. Now that you change the content, you can always change the textbooks. Finally, I think that we went into some things beyond this law which is good to discuss everything, should not be in anything that should not be debated but ultimately, what this law provides is more modern education, cheaper materials, easier bags, better ways of approval, faster, more efficient, more efficient and important, implementation of new curricula, the content that they have mentioned here many times, the quality. Because surely the quality of education depends not on the quality of the paper on which it is printed but on what is printed on that paper. And we need to enable something to be printed in the way it works for our citizens or children if it means cheaper. They say that, it'll be cheaper and more expensive because they'll have to buy something else. Let it go, let me make sure they have this cheaper and get, not cheaper than to get but to get free, I welcome this proposal that will provide, any proposal that comes from any club that will increase items in the Ministry of Education is on my part and on our part, I absolutely welcome it in a way that it is feasible and sustainable. Thank you all and I invite everyone to do so. And I think this is that step and we're always talking to see how there's learning in nature, how Scandinavian countries, Denmark, Finland, the Estonians, the French, whatever, have this, how... We're poor here, we're learning from 50 years ago everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we go to do that, then, in one school, it's not a good roof, the other one's not secure, the third one's best not to do anything until all the schools are fixed. Yes, we should do this, conditions are a disaster, we must ensure equal conditions for a child who is in a village with me in Slavonia and here in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, anywhere, they must have all equal conditions, equal access to knowledge, teachers must have equal conditions and of course equal conditions regarding infrastructure, that they are available to them all, that is the goal of this government, as well as the other day which was, as little as possible, the better service to our citizens, and that is done here. I say once again, don't be distracted with the content of what's happening now is some kind of HNS project, so otherwise, that might be someone else's, that would be super good, but now we can't let it turn out like they were right, no, that doesn't mean that, absolutely not. The citizens will assess, time will assess whether we were right and these individual laws speak in the future of our children. So I ask that all of this constructively and we have heard here and some constructive things, I must admit, that both from colleagues and who will go with amendments, hopefully we will also be able to articulate that they are implementing and sustainable, and that we are really doing what is in the interests of our children and not in the interest of political views or points or whatever they may call it. Once again, the HNS club will, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122398	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We continue the debate on the agenda Final proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school. On behalf of the Independents' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122400	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to try to do in a debate that won't be long, say a few things that we think are important and about this law, and when I say it won't be long, then I'm in danger of saying too much or too little. Since this is part of the school system of the Law on textbooks, it concerns the system and the system as I said in the replica, the system in school is very important, the system, clear protocols. We have some schools that have clear protocols in all phenomena, and in these schools, the success of students and the work of teachers is better, where there are no clear protocols, then there is none, but here we are already coming to a situation that all schools should have clear protocols in their situations and so we can build clear systems. When we talk about schools, we can't get around, don't get mad, I'm saying so. Founder, someone said with one decree, I'm talking about schools that became before the founders took over, they made a decision about setting up, so they started a school that had already been built, which in many cases the citizens themselves built. Why do I mention founders? So, right now, let me say the key thing that seems to me to be important in this law, which is Article 14, which provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can buy textbooks if there are funds for it. We don't think that's the best solution, because if we look at schools and schools that are the founders of schools then we see a different situation, we see new halls where I met a man who runs with 5 pots, 3 buckets and 12 rags and in a new hall a leaky roof. We see a lot of built schools that aren't a problem because these schools get a chance for those who built them to promote themselves, to say they did a good thing, but we also see schools where there's no toilet paper, there's no paper for teachers' needs, teachers can't go to professional training, training because they don't have money to travel. These are all the realities of today's schools in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why it is important and it will be the essence of the amendment that let the Government buy textbooks, but let the units of local self-government and founders send a request to the Government and let the requirement clearly state how much money they spend on education, for the school system, from their budget. Let it be clear and transparent information and let it be seen. Because it's pointless for me that the ministry buys textbooks or government or all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for those cities or municipalities that don't want to invest at all in school, which they're pretending I wouldn't want to interfere with, especially those units of local self-government that are founders, so above all, cities and counties. I think the message is clear here. Help the state to, but take one step to it yourself because we won't lie, I once told my county one party, on another county is another party but trust me a maid can't be at school if this party that's in power in that county doesn't determine. It's a picture of Croatia, we can talk about what we want, and that's the way it is. And let alone the principal of the school or the principal gives the licenses. And that's why it's important that these founders and those units of local self-government invest something in education, and in this case textbooks if they want to and, yes, the government of the Republic of Croatia encourage it. It's not about here again we say about, someone says the local self-government units are so poor, they are, and that's where we agree, it should be more decentralisation, and it's simply about the message of whether their student education comes first. As far as the students in the law are concerned, I see that nothing important has changed, so there are still demands according to all or the extent that the textbook must satisfy these are the demands of scientific, teaching, psychological, didactic-metodological, ethical, linguistic, graphic and technical requirements and now we come to this part about which there are little obstacles that are mass textbooks. It says in the rule book, it's probably the secretary's rulebook again to bring the whistles to 75 grams, 90 grams of paper, that's where the paper can be, and then it dictates the price of the textbook, and it could change the rules, so maybe with a smaller gram of paper, but then it would be quality. As far as all those school students, teachers, professional associates are concerned, of course, that, or should I ask that question, does the Minister of Technology bring technology to school or has the Minister brought technology to school? I mean, the school can't isolate itself from society saying that society, a few dozen times faster than the school system itself, maybe 100 times faster, because we see today that technology is growing exponentially. We can resist it, but there will simply be these changes, and I personally think that the message that this law carries is good. So, we need to include digital content, the only danger is here, and I'm here asking the minister to make it clear, maybe in the final word, because it shouldn't happen that we MPs are, so to speak up, whether there's any hidden interest behind it. Unless there's a minister who clearly says she's willing to resign if there's a hidden interest. Because watch out on the one hand are publishers who have their own interests, on the other hand are other publishers who in printing textbooks have, the other have interests in these digital content, so I say that in the law here I don't see it, but if there is then it's dangerous. So what's also highlighted here in the debate is if we want to change things from somewhere else, so it was normal before, here my mom went to school on foot, that was normal, today wouldn't be normal. Today some of the things that technology is carrying are simply not able to avoid them we can't act like they don't exist and in that sense we need to follow it, but we need to be careful where the border is. Where there's a line we can't go beyond because an architect has said it in a vivid way, a well-known Zagreb architect, we used to draw slower but we had more time to think, today we draw faster using technology but less time to think. So, that's her, that line between the application of technology and the application of traditional methods that we shouldn't ignore, that shouldn't happen to us kids, so let's set an example by carding white with young people, the one that you should always know somebody should have written took away the digitron, I asked him what you're doing, should have summed up those results, so these are the things that we have to take care of. Not to mention, as far as the Bookbooks Act is concerned, it seems neutral in this section that I mentioned when it comes to individual interests. The law defines what the ministry must do, this part is missing, this part of the founders is missing, and we will present it in the amendment by the end of the debate, and if that amendment by the Minister, if you can accept it, then our support for this legislative proposal will depend on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122401	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of HSS representative Davor Vlaovic's club, he is not present. We're moving on to individual, respected colleague Miro Bulj, not present. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac is not present. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122402	Present. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. We've heard a lot today in this very extensive debate, I can say that, unlike that debate yesterday from the BiH Declaration where we heard things, especially from the opposition side of the assembly, this time we heard a lot of quality arguments and I'm glad. I'm glad that most people who are part of this profession and part of this whole system were or are still talking about it, and that we've actually heard a lot of good suggestions on that subject. As far as the law itself is concerned, I personally support the idea, meaning flexibility, meaning, relief, more autonomy of teachers, introducing new content and opening space for new teaching methods, and I certainly support that. What is there, however, is particularly important that we do not go too far aside by moving any control over what our children are actually going to be learning. In that sense, I would mention two things that we as strangers, as a club, were particularly important, which have now entered into this final bill between the two readings, and the first concerns other educated materials. So other educational materials that can be in, so different forms, can be in digital, can be in print, etc. In the first version, they didn't seem to have enough strong surveillance mechanisms and actually those controls before they actually entered our schools. In this regard, I am very pleased that in the new version, it is now clearly clarified and precise and prescribed, that other educational materials must pass the expert control procedure, that this procedure is carried out by the expert committee appointed by the Agency, i.e. the Director of the Education and Education Agency, and that it is very clear that it is the Agency that ultimately decides to approve such content in our schools. I think that's good, I think it's a good thing it's been specified that way and that it's a very clear, defined legal form. That it is clear that it is an administrative act, for which there are legal medicines, etc., to have full judicial and legal control provided there. The second thing we insisted on was that she came in, that it was clearly prescribed that the textbooks were mandatory. So according to the current formulation in the law, it clearly states that textbooks are required for practically 80% of teaching, except for objects, with predominantly educational content, such as physical and similar. where their use is regulated by a Regulation. I think that's good, I think textbooks need to stay that basic teaching tool, they need to go through a control procedure that's now simplified, but I think they still have to be the basis for everything together. On the other hand, there are other things that have been talked about so much that I would touch them. Of course, there's a question of price and weight. The fact is that such a solution is that the law prescribes the maximum weight of textbooks is unusual. So it's not something you see very often in the world, I don't know about such examples, but eyes, it's one approach. I understand logic. However, the fact is also that the problem of weight is not the biggest problem of our education system. It's also a fact that the problem of heavy bags can be solved in other ways, I think I mentioned in my first reading, say investing in lockers, so that not every time these textbooks are carried to school, so that not every time the bag is loaded, etc. But I'm saying, this is one approach that he's adopted. He is, of course, sending one message to the public, so in that sense, we'll see how it works next. As far as the price calculation formula itself is concerned, he is now in law. It is also not common, but I understand that logic, that these prices are more difficult to change, means that this formula is more difficult to change than it would be with some regulation, and that the system is more transparent in this regard. So, it's still harder to change the law, it has to go through the procedure of our debates in the Parliament, and in that sense it's more transparent, clearer than just regulation by the minister's rules. As for the formula itself, so the key moment that determines, which actually affects the very calculation is the Captain's course. Now, that also makes sense, however, is that there are differences. I'm not sure that should be applied in any case, as was said on the Committee on the Education of this Higher House, you may have items with more Captains or less Captains, but those items with less Captains may need narrative descriptions, explanations like history, rather than perhaps necessary for mathematics. So that's the same question is whether it's necessary to make it so strict, fixedly prescribed in this way, but here, that's something we can talk about anyway. As far as the prices of textbooks are concerned, there's a lot of talk about it, I would point out on this occasion some historical fact. The historical facts are that the HDZ governments were the ones who first introduced free textbooks, i.e. textbooks funded from the state budget, so that was the first thing that the HDZ had done in the late 1990s and also since 2007-2009, which is, however, important to emphasize, what costs were. Those costs aren't small. In 2007-2008 the costs of these textbooks financed from the budget were 408 million kuna and 2008-2009. 447 million kuna, and the projection was for 2009-2010 where the entire high school was to be included in order for these costs to exceed 700 million kuna. However, I would also like to point out that it was the HDZ Government that prescribed in 2010 that textbooks should be chosen or selected for 4 years. And that's how it's actually prevented it from going through the whole process again every year for textbooks to buy over and over again and for those costs to rise. So it was the HDZ government that limited the cost of the textbooks' growth and that it actually made possible through the 2010 textbooks' law to inherit textbooks and that is what I would point out to this public on this occasion. Also, as far as the price is concerned, it means cost cuts, means digital content entering the system, etc. In the sense that it might be cheaper in the long run. However, there is a need to be careful as well. So, the fact is that curricula reform means that what goes through this experiment and what should happen if the experiment is shown to be successful from September next year means something that, it's definitely something that will require additional costs. We should all be aware of that. And the fact is that it is really necessary to clearly develop a model of how this will be financed. We've had a lot of public debates about this. From what I understand, it's going to be dealt with in some way in walking, but I certainly think we should have a very clear system as soon as possible with all possible projections. Especially because a good part of these costs will actually be meant to eventually fall to founders, so there is certainly a question of how it will be able to finance, what long-term sustainability it will be. There was a mention of reform itself. Of course, whether this law is necessary for reform or not, the contents were mentioned. The fact is, we haven't got the roof document that went through all the necessary reviews and procedures yet. And that's something to work on anyway, and especially in a situation where we already have the curicula in question, the curicula to whom it suits, so that it would be logical, after all, that roof document should circle that entire system. As far as I know, the expert task force is working on it. I think it is now in the process of appointing expert working groups for individual items, so I believe and hope that they will also make all the necessary changes, based on comments from the public debate on the curricula in question, in order for these items to be brought to the highest level, respectively. What is particularly important also as we have said, so the current procedure is currently the experiment being conducted is “The School of Life”. It should be the basis for what should be introduced in the 9th month of next year. There was a lot of talk about controlling this process and evaluation. I remind this occasion that according to both the existing legal framework and the strategy, the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education is the key institution that needs to implement this evaluation. And that's why I think they should certainly be supported in order for this evaluation to be objectively based on evidence, on what kind of situation on the ground it really is, and in order to learn all those lessons in order for that reform to take place in all our schools. But certainly what I agree with and with... colleagues who have said here, I don't think we can move into something until the experiment is based until this experiment has passed the evaluation, until it's established whether it's quality or not. Well, here, it means so much to me. I think I'm on the verge of time. I support the law, of course. The fact is that there are many more issues that are open and I hope the Ministry will get involved, means that it will engage to explain more transparently and more clearly to the public who are the following steps that need to be taken as far as textbooks, so related to education reform as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122403	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122404	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sokol, in your shorter exposé, you've actually sublimed all of that, and that part of which I've had my doubts, and I'm glad that's what the public heard. However, I agree, education is certainly a social category which, in my opinion, is a great fundamental value of one society and the well-being of every society depends on good education. But you said that you also support new teaching methods and new forms of educational material by referring to electronic materials, in this case tablets. So when we talk about long-term financing, I'm also interested in whether it's been thought about not falling to the founder's expense in this case of regional self-government units, because you know we often pass such laws in the Croatian Parliament without thinking about such cost, and this cost can be purchases, it can be a waste, it can be the maintenance of such electronic equipment itself. So I'm curious here's your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122405	I thank my esteemed colleague. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122406	Well, thank you very much. A colleague, yes, is the fact that the reform as it is shown in the public with such a greater emphasis on digital content certainly requires additional infrastructure. And it will certainly mean great financial resources in the long term, it is a fact. We know that our units of regional self-government as founders or counties and the City of Zagreb are very often unable to bear full costs of this and should certainly consider what would be the long-term sustainability model of this. I remind you that in vocational education we have centres of competence where we also have founders of the county who will now spend certain funds invested from European equipment funds, but where long-term sustainability will also be asked precisely because of the limited fiscal capacity of the county. And in that sense, I also call for serious consideration of how this long-term sustainability is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122407	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122408	Thank you very much. Comrade Falcon, I will refer to that part of your individual debate in which you spoke about the experimental application of the School of Life in the context of the Law on, in the context of the connection of all this with the Law on textbooks. In fact, in her opening presentation, or in reply to a replica, the minister replied that in the experimental program “The School of Life” is not experimented with curricula, but only with the method of teaching. So by changing the paradigm. Here, I'm calling on the minister who said it today, and now, since we're talking about the Bookbooks Act today, I'm getting one really illogical thing here, and I'm really getting one big questionnaire in the air right now if we don't experiment with the curriculas, how are we going to introduce it in front of me for a year? All along with the curricula and all together to bring it into context... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122409	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Bedekovic/... The law. Come in, mate Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122410	Thank you very much, well, I haven't heard that remark, but I think it's precisely the idea for new curriculas to be tested through an experiment to then enter frontal application. The second thing is that they actually do not exist in the final form yet, which is again, in fact, only in public consultation, as Col. Curaj said, so we need to see how it will eventually work, so it is very important that professional working groups, new ones, are chosen, to start working, to actually bring this to an end in the final phase. Because what is very important to us and what is crucial to the curricula is that, that this clear procedure of expert review, the expert examination of all content is being done, so that some things that would relativise the Homeland War, the question of who is the aggressor in history, etc., where he thinks the greatest, in fact, where are the biggest fears in our public, so I hope that this process, complete evolution, introduces a frontal curricula, etc. be as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122411	I thank my esteemed colleague Falcone for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122412	Comrade Sokol, you said in your presentation, among other things, that the HDZ Government introduced in 2010 the possibility of inheriting textbooks or allowing cyclical acquisition of new textbooks in Croatian schools or selecting and obtaining every 4 years, and that is correct. But also, you said you were able to regulate the price of textbooks at the time they were secured in the Republic of Croatia free textbooks. Yes, you secured during Minister Dragan Primorac's free textbooks, however, precisely because you failed to regulate or control an unbearably rising price of free textbooks, the project gave up. Now, whether it's smart or not, I don't want to get into it. We also, like our Government, have ensured free or co-financing of local transportation to secondary school students, these are the same prices of co-financing have increased throughout the years, but as a state we retain that standard and hope that it will not be compromised. It's a matter of priorities and political decisions now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122413	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Dear fellow Sokol, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122414	Thank you very much, so that fellow Glasovac, but the prices went up before the HDZ Government, during the SDP government, that Racan government, means, we had this huge rise in prices that were really up at one point, and at that point, the project had to be interrupted, but note, what was particularly important was that 2009 was a year of economic crisis, a great deficit in the budget, and unfortunately, then it was simply a decision to stop such textbook prices as they were at the time, which was also a very complex process, but what is important now is that the situation is not as it is and that we do not need to descend under it, and therefore I think that it is extremely important that this succession is possible and that new costs be prevented.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122415	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A lot has already been said in the discussion of the final proposal of the Law on textbooks, but perhaps some things are not burning again, but in an individual debate, in fact, we have more space, perhaps to devote ourselves to some details of the Law itself. I think that no one here in this Assembly has anything against informing the education system and the desire that our education system is following trends and that technology is something that is simply going on, not waiting for us to decide or not to decide and that our students in everyday life use both mobiles and tablets and the Internet and simply it is a fact that we cannot close our eyes and the fact that these new technologies can actually, if we want to, very skillfully, use to the welfare of society and improve the teaching process and that I think we can all dispute in this Assembly about it, that there is no opponent here, in fact, opponent of modern technologies and opponents that everything that is good, which technology is, in fact, we use as tools to improve certain parts of society, certain parts of the system, in this case of education, and there is no need to compete here about who is more modern, who, who, at the end of HS, as well as I have said in terms of communication and communication in terms of education in terms of education, education and technology. But also, the same strategy has warned of the following, the concept of mass-opened on-line courses with large free repositories of academic and other educational content, mostly funded by private means, could change the approach to education as we know it today. The prudent procedures of encouraging and evaluating the development of e-containments and aids must remove a legitimate concern that by ignoring the deductive knowledge of the current and future offered e-containments and aids that are already competing or will compete for public funding, they will result in their hyperproduction and problematic quality. In this process, the publishing industry will probably seek to present these products as very necessary and useful for funding from the state budget and local budget in its transformation into the multimedia industry. It is therefore necessary to encourage the formation of two content groups, firstly free of charge, which are financed by public or European funds and other commercial ones for which there is a need to provide infrastructure for the distribution and implementation of the review. Here, we're at this point. There's a lot of mention here of publishers as enemies of the system because they're the ones who turn huge money and that's true. And it wasn't easy for all the Education Ministers so far when they changed the Laws on textbooks, it wasn't, it wasn't for us either. Ten months after the regulation was passed where we set deadlines because we entered a four-year cycle, I will call them negotiations, but it wasn't just negotiations, they know here and some colleagues sitting here in front of the ministry that it's hard to reconcile the interest of capital and social interest, but the market is a market. Some things are not arranged how they should be arranged, but we must not interfere with the idea that we will not solve the problem when we deal with existing publishers who base their profits on printed content by pleasing and creating new power centers in multimedia content. And it's particularly dangerous when you're in a position of power and power and you have the ability to influence some further flows of money, the distribution of power. Well, you see, Ministers and you in the ministry are in this moment today, and it's not easy for you, the pressures are huge on the one hand and on the other. With those who, who we leave behind, are printed materials and those from which you come from, I mean you don't mean that you're an advocate of these interests, but you're close to your education, with your life-saving, you're simply part of that system, you understand it, and you were one of the people who was also working on the e-school project, you know what the e-school project means, he's an important project, he's declared a national project of the Republic, but there's huge money, it's a huge billion kuna that's going to go into the system, but someone's going to end up delivering some service to the system. You can laugh but it's not funny at all, it's serious and it's a big responsibility on you how you set the criteria and this moment when it's very clear you need to define objective criteria and not bring yourself and others into temptation, and that's exactly the moment. Now, why are you further deepening this suspicion, and in Article 3 you say and provide the possibility of changing the electronic part of the textbook beyond the prescribed procedure which can endanger the natural quality and suitability of that part of the textbook. Why you're guessing, by the very law of the procedure, in unobstructed criteria, in an unequal approach, why you favor the electronic part of the textbook in relation to the printed part of the textbook. Why are you doing this? Why don't you just throw out the same rules of the commission, the agencies to approve printed textbooks and the electronic part of the textbooks, and see here you're doubting that you're the only part of this textbook policy and you might be at war with these publishers printed, but on the other hand, I'm not going to mention which, but you know what companies your closest associates come from, they already have quite a safe entrance and a comfortable way to have what the primate says in some of the following steps, if you see here you throw doubt, doubt at themselves. The approval process, I have not seen it mean the most sensitive part of the actual implementation of the Bookbooks Act is the one that will last for 6 months, with us taking a little longer, or not with us, than in this existing Law on textbooks, where actually these commissions are also very often exposed to strong pressures, it has often turned out that the school has completed textbooks that have passed and received commission approval and have some controversial content, I have not seen you go in this sense to improve some things that are visibly poorly regulated or insufficiently well, there you have not been doing so much to correct some of the wrong drifts that there, which there, which exist. Four of what I am, and in conclusion, what's already set up here, you're too fit and you're too small in content. So you're saying now that we're in an experimental program we have experimentally in the first, third, fifth grade of primary school and in high school we're testing, testing what, testing some curriculaes. And now, as we know, whether they passed the test or not, when we know, they need to get into all the schools next year, and we don't have a test. And then you say we're going to discuss the January textbook contest when we pass this law, and what kind of textbooks these publishers are going to create, regardless of the digital or printed textbooks, by which curricula, by the curiculas where you haven't checked the content, you don't have checked the content because it's experimentally, you don't have the result. Well, that's irresponsible at least, but it's expected of you, look, ever since you've been in the ministry, you've become a measuring unit for such easy decision-making depending on which foot you get up and it's not clear who's running your ministry's policy, which are the external centres of power that affect your decisions, to wake up one day and say ah today I'm going from the professional programs that go into dual education to throw out biology, geography and some third object of the type of history. Then you go into reform not to deliver laptops, then deliver laptops without cameras, then deliver laptops where screens are fired, so what's the matter with you, so it's not one thing, so it doesn't run a house I don't think that's how you run your home, and you dare to run a ministry and not any ministry, but a ministry that's 500,000 as many students as there are teachers, teachers and 1,300, 1,300 institutions. I honestly expected much, much, much more from you, you are my complete disappointment, and especially because you had two predecessors of whom it was really difficult to be worse, than Shuster and Barisic, and you did it, and you had a strategy of education, science and technology, you had completed a licensing project, you inherited operational programs served by all funds to withdraw funds, you all managed to mess up and turn out more incompetent than your predecessors who were the couple excellants incompetent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122417	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac for this debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so good colleague Voter, when you talk about who was incompetent or not, you don't know if it's possible to be more incompetent than the furniture that 7x times the acts fell in the Constitutional Court, and that was when you were the assistant minister, but well, that we don't get into these shootings now, because with one thing I agree with, which is that the procedure is essential, objective, clear procedure, professional evaluation, what needs to be the key for textbooks, and content, and for teaching programs, for all. Now I'm curious, what you mentioned, which means just testing this experiment. I'm also interested in how it's meant to be spent since this school year ends in the 6th month, but it should start immediately at the 9th month. Also, what's important to stress, I think we should mention every time, which is that the law has to be respected, and it's known which institution, it's the National Centre for External Valuation, which is responsible for that, and I hope that this procedure will be respected, because things don't end up on some sort of judicial body. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so good colleague Voter, when you talk about who was incompetent or not, you don't know if it's possible to be more incompetent than the furniture that 7x times the acts fell in the Constitutional Court, and that was when you were the assistant minister, but well, that we don't get into these shootings now, because with one thing I agree with, which is that the procedure is essential, objective, clear procedure, professional evaluation, what needs to be the key for textbooks, and content, and for teaching programs, for all. Now I'm curious, what you mentioned, which means just testing this experiment. I'm also interested in how it's meant to be spent since this school year ends in the 6th month, but it should start immediately at the 9th month. Also, what's important to stress, I think we should mention every time, which is that the law has to be respected, and it's known which institution, it's the National Centre for External Valuation, which is responsible for that, and I hope that this procedure will be respected, because things don't end up on some sort of judicial body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122420	I thank my esteemed colleague Falcone, My colleague, please. [[Intruder: And let me explain how it's going to be,]] I would kindly ask you a little patience, slowly, as the Dalmatians say, is not a bird's nest, that it will comfort. We have before you, so I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to pay little attention to the dictionary in their address or in their discussions and to illustrate it to this House of Commons. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122421	Thank you very much. Article 238, Col. Sokol insisted from the debate in the debate when the topic of education is untrue and slander. I'd ask her to stop. To take the second time when all those 7 are discussed, as he says, by the Constitutional Court and annulled the acts of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. So, it's a defamation fellow Falcon. Next time make those decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122422	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. If you consider it defamation, then press charges against Mr. Sokol, and I warned Mr. Sokol to pick a little bit of a dictionary, and Article 238, he didn't norm a slander, nor a lie, and this is his political stance, and I asked him to be an appropriate dictionary in the Croatian Parliament, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured. And now, here's the long-awaited and patient waiting, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122423	I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, that I ran a little before the ore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122424	You didn't see it. It's not your fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122425	I didn't, yeah. My colleague Sokol, and now you explain to me how you, how the procedure will be respected, if you have a September experiment in schools that lasts a year, right? I guess we're testing some kind of curricula, I guess some content we're testing, I mean, this is insane to hear we're testing methods. No, we're testing the curicula. And now, to test it, it must take a year, right? And then we're going to get some result, and then he needs to get into all the schools, and when we're going to follow the procedure if we're going to, if, the school year is going to end in the 6th, to work all summer, to test it by the 9th month, on which basis the publishers, the authors, and then later the publishers, these ones write, and these print textbooks, based on which content, now you explain it to me, I really don't understand it, I have some reduction in cognitive capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122426	I thank my colleague Voter for this answer. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122427	Thank you, Vice President. Here I would, colleague Voter, just ask you a little bit not to go to such dangerous insinuations about the various interesting, and even I would say criminal, criminal-legal responsibilities, if you have any knowledge you are criminally and legally responsible for concealing the crime unless you report the same. And if you don't, then I'd only ask if that's how we discuss me here in the insinuations of any... ...any illegal action that anyone... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , because I don't think it leads to anything, especially the least of the content and when we talk about this difference from printed and digital editions, yes, the intensity is that as much as possible and encourages this digitisation, first of all and in education, and that as much content as possible is left available to our teachers so that they can also use different books in their lectures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122428	I'd like to thank my colleague Curaj. Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122429	I don't know what the intensity is, I just know what the procedure is, and that procedure... for the change in print, it should be valid for the same as for the digital one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only if we don't want to open up, speed up the digital path for some reason, and they're privileged to the printed ones, that's all I asked, equal approach and equal procedure. And as for these interests and so on, so of course it's an interest. If we paid, while Primorac was a minister, 400 million kuna free textbooks for children from the Croatian budget, Croatian citizens, someone bought it, someone earned it, right? That's how it's gonna be with the digital textbooks tomorrow, right? Can one who writes the laws today determine the rules of the game? You got it. Is it by any chance that a company at the Ministry is already working on digital content, and if one of the closest associates of the minister came from that firm, I don't know if there's anything or isn't, it's weird to me, and now that there are some elements, let them determine who need to determine it. Time will show why this Law was written and why it was written like this, I sincerely hope it was written in the public interest, but time will show, everything, it all comes to its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122430	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122431	Thank you very much. My fellow Glasovac, in the debate, you spoke of possible corruption risks, so I will repeat what I said today, in order to prevent all the corruption risks that really exist, and which are huge, given that it is huge financial resources, I believe that, in the light of our work, we need to sign an anti-corruption agreement and should be signed, to establish a committee involving various stakeholders in order to prevent all potential corruption risks related to the implementation of this Law in reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122432	Thank you. Answer from my colleague, Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122433	I agree with you, but also to minimise the corruption risk or to eliminate corruption risks, first of all, the Law that comes before parliamentary advocates should not be passed on to anyone, nor in this case, I have set an example of what rules will apply to digital textbooks in relation to printed textbooks, where for some reason there is an easier way here and I don't think that's the right approach. Only through an e-school project only in a pilot project in two years to be implemented, three from 15th to 18th seems to me. Yeah, next year we're going to the key that's half a billion kuna purchases of information equipment. We're not talking about these digital content that will only come after this law. It's a huge asset. And precisely because these public funds will be deployed from funds, whether from the state budget to some that will deliver certain services, materials should be laid down clear rules. Unfortunately, I don't see them in the law here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122434	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122435	Dear colleagues, I'm listening to your debate. It is constructive and I would only say that for the first time in my life I might agree with Mr. Jovanovic. That's a good thing he just said. Corruption, I must say, I must be honest corruption is the cancer of our society's wounds. I don't know her in this debate anyone mentioned the word of a twist. Turns die in Croatia. I when I lived outside the children were immediately separated into three stages they were separated there until the 8th grade basic for crafts, technical sciences and academia. That's good. I'm also worried about who's going to implement this school reform. Of course, they're teachers. But I wonder, we have doctrines that don't mix well. NATO does not mix doctrine and... pact. We also have teachers who I think are not quite ready and should be educated and paid a little more to pay these people because we are still an insular society and I see it by teachers when it comes to economics, social science, the right that these young people have no idea what is going on outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122436	Thank you. Answer from my colleague, Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122437	I agree with you that teachers are the ones who need to carry the whole reform. However, teachers here “were the last holes to play. ” Teachers when they ask a few days ago because the government boasts that it's out of the crisis, that the budget is good, that it's sustainable, that we have money, when they're looking for an increase of more than 5% the government says – we're sorry we don't. You can do 2, you can get 3 and then you can set up a process of calming down. The teacher's union, it's the teacher who's unhappy. However, it is subject to the same rules. Okay, better anything than nothing. But the fact is, if we expect them to carry out these reforms, then we need to remember them first when we're doing well. Because there were times and when we're not doing well, then they're the ones who, along with the doctors, are the nurses who bear the greatest burden because actually the largest amount goes for those salaries. But when we're doing well, then we need to remember them to sort of damage them. But unfortunately, it doesn't come to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122438	I thank my colleague, Voter. Next debate, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122439	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers with their associates. Here, at first I'd like to know, the four of you came here. You're a minister, we all know that. Here we have two other male subjects, one female. I've been asking around you, I don't know his name. Maybe later I'll find out, the ministry's advisor or the minister's, then the legal staff. And finally there is a young gentleman who is always with you, Maro Alawa. Maro Alavanja, as far as I know, is paid from the state budget from the Ministry of Education's funds. Correct me. If you don't pay from the Ministry of Education, there's nothing to do where you're sitting. If it's paid, I want to know what it's worth. If he's on a party manger, then let him leave the assembly. If you pay from the Ministry of Education it's a question that today requires an answer, let me be told what it's being paid for. Is he the key to your cell phone the guy who keeps your social networks up? So you're not laughing anymore? You're not laughing now? Yeah, here's Maro Alawaa laughing. Maro Alava... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122440	Please, dear colleague Zekanovic, just a moment. We stopped your time. I would ask you nicely, neither you nor any of us in the Assembly of Parliamentary MPs nor an agent who will represent the Government on behalf of the motionors. At this point, the government is represented by a minister with his associates. It is she who has decided who of her associates will be with her and, please, in your debate, do not disrespect anyone and do not respect the right of the minister whom she will bring with her by the staff of the Ministry. So these are the employees of the Ministry. Please continue the debate to stay away from that way and that style. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122441	Dear Vice President, I still have to round up this subject. So by moving her head left-right, which means no, she made it clear that the gentleman wasn't funded by the Ministry's funds. But maybe it is? But here I simply want to know, and it's my right because she's come to make an account here for us and for me to find out what Mr. Maro Alavanja is specifically paid for, which is his job and which job description he has. Is it just social networks and PR ministers or is it something else? Maybe he's doing something else? But the other thing I have to notice is that it's interesting that no assistant minister or secretary of state in particular in this law that has caused much attention and attention is present here. But you yourself said it was her right to bring whoever she wanted, so she brought this team along. Now a little bit about the law. I said before in that replica, you laughed well afterwards, 21st century so it's nice to hear from your mouths, not the 19th century. You have opposed in your head on one side of the 21st century progress, of course it is you, and in the 19th century it is all those who are your critics. I think you're in a bit of a trouble here. You are an informer, we all know that, and Croatian education is not exclusively informative as much as you want it to be. Croatian education is both geography and history and mathematics and biology and chemistry, you pretend it's only necessary in Croatian society to get the pills, so you ordered the pills, you paid for our money, but there was a typhoon, and apparently these pills didn't arrive, so part of them didn't arrive, so we went into some kind of curricula reform, so we don't have a "k",... Our secretary started yawning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm glad that you have a sense of humor, that you have beautiful teeth, that you like to show them, but, Minister, the situation here is very, very serious. So, Minister, all of what you're doing including this textbook law is a failed project and you know it very well. You know it's actually no matter what you're trying to put yourself in there right now, so I don't care, let Zekanovic speak. Minister, fortunately for the Croatian state, Croatian state, Croatian citizens, you are here for another year and 11 months. Max and then you go back in time, you go back in history. Unfortunately, I will say, and my children will personally suffer your bad decisions and you remember, you will no longer be a minister, fortunately for Croatian education. And when we talk a little bit about what you're actually here right now, i.e. That you didn't put into law. Well, here are my colleagues here from the Milan Bandic club, they asked for free textbooks, unfortunately that deal with the prime minister failed, and then you jumped in front of the HNS, and now we're going to take that part of the cake, now we're going to give the kids free textbooks, however, the textbook doesn't have any. You did not put in this law that budget funds would be provided and that children would receive textbooks. Why didn't you? Aren't you glad children have free textbooks? Oops, actually textbooks don't matter, pills are important. It's important that children get free pills. So we'll have information. Madam Minister, it's not the Youtube Channel School. It's not Facebook school. So the school was and it will be, and I speak as an educational worker, the lecture of the ex department, and as old-fashioned as it sounds to you, it will forever be as long as people on this Earth are teaching and lecturers and there will be those who will smile thinking they're smart and they're not really. And unfortunately, you don't actually know how to do this and you don't even know how to choose a team other than choosing a good PR, you didn't actually do anything. I'm just interested in maybe ending what we're still expecting from your kitchen? Are you going to continue this way to ruin Croatian school or do you have any more surprises? But I have to admit here's a very nice, vocabulary, meaning modern, advanced, technology, media culture, information, virtual reality versus the 19th century, a traditional education that obviously didn't have an effect on some. Is there an answer to see for myself when you're finished, who's with you and where you work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122442	Thank you, dear colleague Zekanovic. If the Minister decides to have a final word, it is her assessment and her will whether or not she will answer you and you can base the Rules of Procedure, ask for a written indication of who the gentleman sitting on her right is. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122443	Thank you, Vice President. I think Mr. Zekanovic broke Rule 238's article because the first eight minutes of his debate, he was discussing something that wasn't a topic here. The composition of Mrs. Minister's delegation is not the topic we are discussing here and thank God that it has included amongst its associates and young, educational, creative people, this is the way to prepare for the reform of education and this context I think Mr. Zekanovic deserves a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122444	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. I have pointed out to my colleagues to Zekanovic that fact, if we strictly stick to the subject, then few of them would talk here in the Parliament all the time, so please allow the president who works his job to assess whether it is discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not, but thank you for the useful notices and information but I have heard everything. Thank you very much. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122445	Dear colleague, I've been listening to your exposure, one thing you've done well, counselors. Croatia has more advisors per ministry than it has a Chinese court there in the 14th century, more advisors than the Pentagon, the question of who evaluates these people, are they rated quarterlyly, as their performance is estimated? I know in the army where I've been, I've had the same quarterly reports, every year you have to qualify for weapons, tests, how it happens with us. You've touched each other's point, that moral point, and we're missing that theological discourse, and that's missing from this debate this morning, and there's Mrs. McNally. Minister, how did Croatia come from where did this culture of cheating in the Croatian education system come from? Fake exams, fake diplomas, fake biographies, selling exams to colleges where you could buy in the former system for 500 brand diplomas. How will it be eradicated... This culture of cheating that nobody's talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122446	Thank you, dear colleague Glasnović, for this replica. Answer, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122447	That's right. You've noticed very well, colleague Glasnović. So here we have one obvious example of exactly what you're saying, so the minister brought with her no less than three counselors, so three advisors, zero officials. I'll say here, he nicely pointed to that vice president of the Parliament, it's her right, but it's a mirror of society. It means that everyone today has 15, 20 advisors, but that no one actually has to pay from the state budget not to value their work, not to evaluate them, but actually they can do whatever they want, while it's appropriate to the party, it's here specifically the HNS or the minister, which is normally the exposition of that same HNS, or their main PR project. Unfortunately, which isn't very successful, but she'll keep trying, but unfortunately for her, it's not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122448	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122449	Thank you. Dear colleague, although your exposure to the greatest extent was an attempt to establish a new discipline within the history of art, which is that you observe guests from the ministry, not as those who have something to say, but as those whose appearance and function we need to focus on. I'd step away from one such judgment and hold it inappropriately to this home, but I'd stick to that part of the exposure where you're overly focusing on teachers and teachers. Ex-Catedra will never disappear, that's true. There are disciplines and I belong to them, a philosophy in which a different medium is sought. However, teaching is directed towards students and the adoption of knowledge and knowledge should be an authority. The teaching is not a function of raising the confidence of teachers or forming some false authority. And that's why we need the 21st century at school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122450	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetic. Answer, colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122451	I'm glad we agree on an ex-catera. And I agree that this is one form of teaching, i.e. the transfer of knowledge that will never disappear and, of course, other forms of learning should be included, there are many. But it's the first and the basics that all begins with. But still, I would correct you, I haven't commented on the appearance of gentlemen here, I think that, here it is, all dressed up quite nicely, when you mention it, looking nice, sleepy, rested, wearing makeup, so here it is, since I haven't already, I can comment on that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122452	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122453	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Zekanovic, several times in your debate you mentioned the word modern education in one, like, fart way. So what do you have against modern education that should be provided to Croatian students? So are we really going to be preparing kids for some past tense or for some future time? Will we prepare them for the life ahead of us or for the life we would like to have, as our great-grandparents or great-grandmothers had? So all that's good in the education system from the past, closer or further, should be kept. That's why we have a classic education, too. I, too, studied Roman law at Law School, and I was very glad to learn that. But that doesn't mean we won't bring modernity into teaching methods. So how do you think someone could work in the UN or, say, in the EU, an international company without being able to use digital data transfer methods, that they can't learn digitally? It's almost time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122454	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. Answer, colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122455	Dear colleague Klisovic. Here's a little bit of you, though, to say that you're not... I mean, you're right about everything. In person, in 97 or 98 years, I was the first professor of geography in Croatia who had his own website. First. So the first in Sibenik-Knin County to use multimedia, that is, to mention the projectors of ministers, for whom the projector was also acquired, throughout the county. So, all these methods that you're talking about, are still my pages and active, are still being downloaded and my quizzes and my test questions are still using the interactive content that I've been asking. So, I'm a fan of it. But I'm not a fan, of course, of course, and today I'm very well-educated and I'm using it in this business. But I'm against the information lobby. And speaking of the information lobby, we're talking about those who put themselves in their pocket, I'm talking about pills, I'm talking about spending budget money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122456	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122457	Thank you, Vice President. I, just to see, what, am I going to talk about the subject and the Law on textbooks and other educational materials, or am I going to look back at the debate that is under way? What? [[You can quit, pal.]] No, come on. [[You can quit if you want.]] I appreciate your recommendation, but I'm not a quitter, so I'm not gonna do it now. [[Intruder: Or we'll set a break.]] I'll just take a moment to look back at some of these discussions. It's probably the biggest problem that Mr. Gluncic doesn't sit there, so I guess that's why we have the first time to hear there's a minister, and he's not a secretary of state, even though so far in this house, there's been an angry opinion that, when the minister doesn't come, it's a problem. But here's the first time we've heard something wrong. As far as the Bookbooks Act is concerned, I think enough about these non-thematic things. So, I said in front of the club, now I want a little more, maybe more on the subject, so. We, very simply relieve, put emphasis on teachers, on those who are most important in education, those who are the first contact of every child with education, with the system, with ways to acquire knowledge, we give them greater autonomy. We're going to bureaucratic any influences that then may or may not have to, or I don't know how they were connected to any lobbys, or storybooks, or like that. Can we go to that logic to talk about, imagine what it's the story lobby of the chalk manufacturer, the board, the directory, I don't know what everything isn't used, the sixth grader, everything that's used in the follow-up. Who's got an interest in that? Why is a six-pack like that, why is it chalking? Now we're going to have smart records or those type-write plates, flomasters. Who's making the flomasters? What do we do now? That's what matters. It doesn't matter how to convey knowledge. It doesn't matter what you do with it. It doesn't matter if it's a tool, a tool. And the tool in the 21st century is technology and digitization. So imagine you at the threshold of the 20th century, some dared to replace the human work, by machine. Who did this and how did it happen? To those who produced these machines where many people lost their jobs so that their hands don't do it, but that's what a machine does. What would it look like today if we'd listened to it like that and resonated it then, what would we be and where would we be? But it's okay to use all that technology, it's okay to ensure yourself a better and comfortable life and a better quality it's OK then, I guess, but when we want our kids to think differently, to get knowledge, to use technology not for fun but for knowledge, to learn knowledge to learn, let's go use that technology. And anyway, too many kids are watching these little screens, which isn't good, let's show them that they serve it differently, that it's not just for fun. That they know how to use the Internet and everything that comes in modern times. Here we leave textbooks as a formal part, work notebooks, other auxiliary materials in addition, but we open them all, so we allow schools, collectives to choose one textbook from the offered ones but also to use all other topics from others and therefore that digital content. It allows you to get the materials that you chose for a fifth of the price printed, which may not be contained in what you chose, because it may be 80 percent of what that teacher thinks it is, but this 20% is really good in the other one, so I'm going to show it to the kids that it can. I remember when I went to elementary and high school, so the textbook changed, and then you know what the teachers say, so I have to tell you that's the one and that textbook, but you know, the old one was better, and I'm gonna ask you the old one. And then it happened that we had to have both of the most, so it was. I mean for sure to all of us, it's not a special case, because it must have happened to someone in that mandatory 12-year-old school that the textbooks were changing, that they couldn't have been used by brothers, sisters from the elderly, that some had now come out new, that it was better in the old, etc., etc. And the teachers didn't want to accept that change, but they say, God, they make things up, at least the kids told us so. So now these teachers are going to have all the autonomy or greater to transfer knowledge, this law allows. This law allows the content that is now in the public debate to be applied, which will be united with all its imputes to the new textbooks and new materials, which is why it is important that this wheel is in the whole of the reform. And reform is life-long in the sense that she's not who we're used to now and forever, so she's life is she's changing can change every two years. Only this law allows that if you change the content so that the textbook can change immediately it has not been so far, that is the essence. If you want the populist part, that everyone complains about imagine the easy bags, so I don't know any parents who didn't object that his child had a bag that he had a hard time carrying, and I carried my child's bag because it was hard for him to carry to school, and he's not very little to have anyone to be with. And now in some way you're going to regulate it, now it's some kind of pyr or I don't know what, so price, and he only mentioned what happened to the inter-urban transport when the Varazdin County then had this during the Mayor of Cacic, the state took over 30% of the higher price, and now he won't be able to. And if we provide free textbooks to primary school students, extra funds whatever, especially if we're talking about textbooks won't be able to go to heaven. And as for electronic content, we need to find a way to encourage it by not allowing the checker to determine what the share of the price will be in electronic compared to the printed one, so he's going to say for a book that costs 50 kuna the print is 10 kuna, and 40 kuna is the content, so it's going to be more expensive pie than tepsia, and that's obviously some of them had some interests to make. Any possible doubt that anyone has reports wherever they can, let them tell me I'll report it, but don't throw myself away, casually speak, characterise some interests, lobbys and everything, and eventually when nothing shows up, it stays in the air, and there's always some suspicion. If it's real, then we address it and name it by name. What's important and I think it's crucial that this is a law that will be one of those technical support if you want to say what's most important and that's content. I absolutely agree that we have schools that not only learn from 50 years ago but look from 100 years ago and worse in a worse state when they were made 100 years ago, it must only be an incentive for us to invest as much as we do but not to segment and select and say until we all have no conditions from the 21st century we will learn from the 19th and 20th and we must not do it in parallel because it is not the same everywhere, and we know that our Nobels have learned by candlelight, and we have to find our Nobels among our students and give them the opportunity to show themselves, not to close them, and to pattern and to drum because there are a lot of those who would certainly show their excellence in certain parts. So, once again, I think I'm saying this, I can't be impressed, and I want to tell everyone that this has nothing to do with either the HNS or anything that has to do with our children's better future, education, easier books, cheaper books, better quality and ability to carry content through those books, through certain other elements or virtual repositorys, and that's the purpose and essence of this law. That's why I hope that's really going to happen and all the good suggestions that everyone will accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122458	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122459	You know, colleague Curai, in Zadar, a team built you a private garage. She signed a contract with the city's private garage rental company through which the long-term lease contract not only paid what she invested, but also earned well. And then to justify that contract, it raised the price of public parking in the old city's core almost double to drive people into that private garage and justify the job of the century. And that's what we called guessing. They reassured us, but after a few years they broke that contract. Now, what I wouldn't like to do with this law is to remove workbooks and collections is double the price of public parking to fill someone's garage or this virtual repository to justify spending money on digital content. That's all I wanted to say, and I'm afraid that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122460	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. My colleague Curaj's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122461	Thank you. I'd like the real promoter to correct me here. When you're printing a book, do you have to have it in electronic content when printing it or does someone with a hammer and a CD type it on the board? If there's one in electronic content, then that's what I think. Then all the publishers have just a question of what they do in which way they can distribute it and how they can make it available through different forms of information. I don't see anyone special here. So whoever owns the right book, he owns both electronic and printed. I don't see that that's different. I don't know how they print those books today if they're not like that. And just here the question is that what they have on some files they do available and in electronic form through e-books I think we all heard. So here's actually a clean thing e-book. I think colleges are using it a lot already through their systems and this is the only thing we want to practically copy what colleges are already doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122462	I thank my colleagues Curaju. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Curai, I'm glad you're back on this law that first of all speaks of the price, the weight of the textbooks and giving more autonomy to our teachers. That's why I'm interested, since we're hearing that the work materials or the work book are being removed, we know that's not the case. That far greater autonomy has been given to these teachers in choosing whether someone will conclude that he needs a work notebook if he concludes to teach in this way he will certainly be able to do so. But I'm going to ask you what I've said before in replicas, and that's whether our teachers are willing to accept all that responsibility, because it's a really big responsibility, and we're all sensitive to that segment of education. And that's why all of our debates in the Parliament today are like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122464	I thank my esteemed colleague, Macar. My colleague Curaj's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122465	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, colleague Macar, I think you've said a good question. So, there's nothing going on here with this. And those teachers who want to do things the way they do if I read them right, they can do things the way they do. Select a workbook, select the help material, select a book and not open any material from the virtual repository. He says I don't want to. I don't want to pay even 10, 20% of that price I don't want. We leave that possibility. I want as my colleague Glasovac said I'm a walking textbook and I think I can transfer knowledge better with my lecture than with some tablet, a smart tablet or 17 books that will allow you to learn. And we, I don't see a single comma that anyone can forbid. In fact, we also give greater opportunity through the practical part of teaching and through everything that that teacher thinks should be fulfilled for the ultimate goal, which is to convey knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122466	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122467	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Curray, I have no fear of new technologies, but be careful anyway. But what new technologies provide can be summed up in one, I'm going to quote one expert. He says: “Every student should actually work on special needs.” Each student has special needs. I'll put it in a picture. The coach who would train Luke Modric to score his head was a crazy coach, right? That is why new technologies can make it possible because today we must admit that a teacher cannot be the only source of information to students. The students don't have a whole series of information, and in that sense I support this part of the law. I just want to, and I asked the minister, and I want a control mechanism to be established so that it doesn't really happen after suspicion and what happened to us in the House to the MPs to pass the law and then someone to abuse. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122468	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Curaj's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122469	Thank you. I read it right here. I know I read it. You have an article 18. Impact on the choice of textbooks and other educational materials. Even legally prescribed. That's something my colleague Jovanovic pointed out as well. It may be necessary to distinguish further regulations, but here, through a few items, the potential conflict of interest in the selection of materials etc. is listed here. who may, who may not be in the commission, which schools may receive which donations or may not be allowed to choose something from that virtual repository. I think that's what we've been thinking about. But caution never enough. I agree and we forget one thing. Today when someone says "teacher," what's the first picture that pops up in your heads? Can you imagine that? Is that a 27-year-old person? I don't think so. And to us today, teachers are teaching the children of people who were born in the '90s. And then we look at it in the context of new technologies, it still means something to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122470	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122471	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is the final proposal of the Law on textbooks, and I don't want to recycle everything we said in my debate through the first reading on all committees that have been more times than usual and in today's debate just to say that this is actually one of the most important laws in the reform law of the Ministry of Science and Education, which points to the need for full curricula reform. So this is one of the most important laws and it directly concerns a huge number of stakeholders. Students, teachers, teachers, parents, publishers, the Ministry of Sodom and Government. We'll pass the law in this House, I'm pretty sure of it. However, what we still have to do after the law is passed, and before it goes into full implementation in practice in our schools, our students, teachers, teachers, teachers, it is that we want to see an overall full analysis of the results and outcomes of the existing experimental reforms in Croatian schools, and therefore also an analysis of the curricula of individual subjects that until the full and frontal implementation of the curricula reform must be completed, reviewed, qualified, based on facts, reviewed. Of course, we also need to conduct a full education of all our students and teachers, and what changed in the second reading compared to the first reading in the law is that so - called. a second-degree commission which will decide on the contents to be entered into a virtual repository from which our teachers, teachers will have certain contents and thus complete what is in the required textbooks. I also have to say here that a few moments ago I heard directly from people in the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvania who are under way and who told me that in the budget not only of my county, but probably of others do not have defined funds to equip schools. Minister, we discussed on the board that with representatives of Croatian counties, which are mostly the founders of schools, we will determine how to finance and equip Croatian schools. For now as it seems from their budget, today we are on December 13th when the budgets have either been passed or they have to be passed through a few days, going from decentralised funds, and based on the tables that you as the Ministry of School asked them to fill. Well then I believe that our counties will still find the means for all Croatian schools or all Croatian students to get equal opportunities and equal initial positions. I also believe that even after the adoption of this law, we may by some rule determine who are the owners of textbooks to be obtained, who are the owners of other materials. You said in your opening debate this morning in the Parliament that it would be school. I believe that schools will be sufficiently capacitated to carry out a particular species to preserve these textbooks to give them back to new generations of students in a certain way. I believe it will be arranged within the school. And also what awaits us besides the present 60% subsidisation of our students to textbooks, now we are expected probably 100% and to determine in fact all of those ways of teaching that will be conducted from virtual repository. Here, I believe this law will be passed in the Croatian Parliament on Friday. As it has already been heard here, I don't think there are any MPs here, or anyone else from the interested public who doesn't want to change in Croatian schools. However, they should be approached with a dose of caution because it is the most sensitive group of society. I primarily think about our students. And definitely this law, as well as the other reform laws that go towards the full preparation of curricula reform, should take into account the preservation of the dignity of people whose back still rests the entire curricular reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122472	Thank you, dear colleague Putica. Replica, dear fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122473	Thank you very much. Here's my friend Putica, you mentioned two things you'd refer to. The first is financial sustainability. So, we know that really county and that's what I was saying in my debate, they have to ensure long-term sustainability means, equipment, funding, etc. And that's something that fiscally is really not very simple. We have an example in the vocational education of the centres of competence which should now be equipped with European funds, but later this goes beyond long-term sustainability to the founder. And in order for you to get EU funds, you have to prove that this will be sustainable in the long term, that what the European Union has invested in is not really going to be a waste. Well, I'd like to know what you think of that, just your comment. And the other thing, when we mentioned actually reviews and evaluations, etc. The key thing is that it is done by professional bodies, that it is not politics and politicisation, but that those who are within the law are competent to do so. I think we should certainly mention an expert task force that may not be talked about so much lately, and it's certainly important in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122474	I thank my colleague Sokol. The answer of my colleague Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122475	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Sokol, I completely agree with you. So these committees, which will determine the content that enters the virtual repository, I am sure that they will be composed of experts whose names are ultimately not necessarily known to the public, but their profession must be guaranteed in order for our students to get the best possible content. As far as funding is concerned, I've already said. Therefore, so far decentralised funds which are not unfortunately guarantees and guarantees that such funding will be sustainable in the future. However, I believe that the final proposal of this law will nevertheless enter the provision that the state has the right to intervene in the purchase of necessary materials for students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122476	I thank my colleague Putica for her reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague, Professor Miroslav Tudjman, go ahead, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to repeat what I said in my first reading, but I'd start with a few findings, so I've drawn conclusions about this law. First, I believe that, we are all here for investment in education and science to be far greater than they are now. Secondly, that reform of education is something we need and what we need to achieve. Thirdly, that this experimental period that is planned to be necessary is necessary and that we need to be able to valorize this whole new paradigm, if you like, or how it is announced because without evaluating the positive and negative effects of this experiment we simply cannot go on. If the situation wasn't black and white, I think we can all testify at all levels of education because our children achieve these knowledge Olympics of exceptional success, so we need to see why this is so and what's good then in the educational process, so that we can change what's not good. The new paradigm here today, which is advocated, is based on what is said to be learning outcomes. However, this objective, that basic criterion, I think, is not consistently applied and implemented, and I will also say why during this debate. This policy that we could call the adoption of this law quickly and immediately, with two basic arguments that we are in the 21st century today, that we need a school for life in the 21st century and on the second point that the digitization of Panacea that will get us out of all of these delays simply has some disadvantages. I don't think these metaphors that are used all the time are enough to answer those arguments that have been made in public so far, and some in this House. Disagreements that arise about this dichotomy that has simply been imposed in the discussion, textbooks or digital media with the argument that the teacher's freedom is guaranteed in the choice of textbooks, but it is forgotten that the choice of textbooks from the textbook catalogue is a textbook prescribed by the minister. On the other hand, the the thesis that digitisation will contribute to an active opinion, a critical opinion, can in principle be acceptable, however, this thesis has a lack of which there is a significant lack that there is a significant difference between logic, if you want both ways of thinking and obsolescence of knowledge in natural sciences and in social sciences. It is one division that is called two cultures of associations and naturalists in professional literature, which simply cannot be skipped or missed by this reform. We are witnessing that such remarks from social science have certainly come, first of all, that it is inadmissible to, objects concerning national identity being sent to review abroad, as an example of history. On the other hand, no evaluations from the HAZU Expert Commission, when it comes to history, in particular, or the Department for the History of the Zadar University, and with the thesis then carried out in the selection of these textbooks and these buildings, that the myths of national history should be disclosed, is simply a general interpretation that is not acceptable in one serious approach and the choice and evaluation of pupils. Here, perhaps, if I don't waste too much time on it, I should remind myself of a book that came out a few years ago, 15 years ago, if I'm not mistaken, Conrad Liesssmann's theory of uneducatedness, which is just talking about these dichotomys of social and these sciences. Today we heard a mass of times here that we don't live in the 19th century, that we need a ic in the 21st century, but we forget that every technology has both positive and negative sides. I believe that none of us were against industrialization in the 19th and 20th centuries, but the negative sides of that industrialization over the environment have been correcting for a century. Therefore, we need to take care of those remarks here, when it comes to digitisation, or digital addiction and inability, in fact, that digitisation also greatly contributes to the abolition of human communication, social communication, primary communication, which is something that sociology and psychology are very much warning about. So I'm not against digitization, but it should mean, right measure and estimate range. What would be worth using here, and I think it's missed since this is a second reading, and what the Minister said is that these Scandinavian countries don't have a textbook catalogue, we probably can't immediately cancel the textbook catalogue today, but we can introduce a catalogue of knowledge as a control mechanism whether these textbooks correspond to what we want to have as learning outcomes in order to de facto come to the fact that we no longer have discussions about textbooks, but that this catalogue of knowledge is a measure of success and teachers and students in the future and all of these stories of publishers, digital, non-digital technology, or textbooks will come into another plan. Therefore, the conclusion of what can be said, the logic of natural sciences or what is today called STEM sciences, is one, and the logic of social sciences is completely different. Logic, in the natural sciences of science, age in one way, in social sciences in another way. On the other hand, what we need to be aware of or what these generations should be aware of, is that natural sciences can provide us with faster technological, economic, civilizational development, but that societies and states remain and fail depending on the system of values on which they are based, which they want to promote, so that, and we will not find such answers in virtual reality, not in repositories but in any other approach, or approach that will not exclude this, but will put emphasis on direct communication, evaluation, critical opinion that technology cannot give because it is pre-programmed and offers already pre-determined solutions. Therefore, the lack of sensitivity for the opinion and observation of the profession of social science points to the least said, caution and that we must be much more cautious or skeptical when we advocate such a law as Panacea or the introduction of a reform that will lead us to unprecedented successes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122478	I thank the respected Professor Tudjman for this debate. We move on to the next debate, respected colleague Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, and once again, my respects to Mrs. Secretary to her associates. Here, already, we're slowly entering in the afternoon, I'm going to try here first, sort of make some kind of a little summary, and then my view of this law. First of all, I would like to point out, yes, and that is, therefore, my personal opinion and my position to really support the way this law is shaped, and it is designed in a way that strengthens not only the flexibility but also the autonomy of teachers and then their creativity and their initiative and their innovation. Or, of course, what that law strengthens and supports is certainly one paradigm of the school's transformation that we want to have in, therefore, the 21st century and, of course, I support both the minister and her associates. But I also remind myself that certainly the transformation of the school, the traditional school in the 21st century, should not and must not be done in such a way that, once or two moves over the knee, we run over everything that is traditionally good, all that our educational and educational system of heritage as our tradition. Among other things, and some of the traditional teaching methods, because in some cases, the situations and the ex department as a traditional way of teaching are very effective, and in those situations and those, therefore, examples of myself being a teacher, teacher or professor, and that as an autonomous professional who knows how to do my job, and in that sense I really support the provisions of the laws empowering the autonomy of teachers, whether, when it comes to the selection of teaching materials, when it comes to selection and additional materials, I have somehow divided them into complementary and additional materials, somehow I am in my head those materials that refer to the workbooks and the collection of tasks are called complementary materials, because they complement the textbooks, which we have now determined to be compulsory in school, basic and secondary materials, and in some way, give one added value, therefore, continue in terms and in terms of what it is necessary and in terms of thinking, in terms of what you are necessary and in terms, in terms, and in terms of experience, in terms of what you are related to the experience. Of course, as I did at the beginning of one of the replicas, I took part in a whole series of consultations and debates, when we bragged, let me call, this law and we discussed very often, consulted, tried to reason here with both the minister and her associates, and somehow we tried to make each of these discussions argument and try to explain why we think something is good or that something could be even better. And of course, in that sense, in some of these provisions of the law that we have in our final reading, we have been able to agree, we have managed to grind. And I have to say, now I speak personally, so not on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I speak on my personal behalf with some of the provisions finally formed, of course I agree, with someone I disagree with, and I have the right to disagree. However, I said that despite all this, I would support the law and, of course, as a member of the HDZ Club, I am not the only one who decides and of course I will adhere to most of my colleagues and colleagues, although I say I do not agree, I do not agree with all the provisions. I still think that the price and mass of textbooks should not be part of the law but of the sublaw. I ask the Minister and her associates not to be angry with me, not to mind me, I have the right to my opinion. And why do I think that this should be part of the sublegal act, i.e. by comparing it with that other one provision that says that the share of the price of the electronic part in the total price of the textbook is determined by the regulation, so there seems to me that two things have come into one interesting power consolidation so that either everything will be determined by the rule or nothing will happen. I personally don't think that we should be cemented by law and that all these details should be put into sublegal acts, but well, that's the decision and I'll go along with it. Of course, I support the acceptance of the proposal, among other things, that the part relating to that part of the comment relating to the approval of other educational materials, and I mean those commercial materials in such a way that they have to pass the procedure of the expert commission and the procedure of the agency, and I think that it is good that we added, non-commercial part of the educational content, the additional educational materials remain without the approval of the competent agency, they will be located in the repository, they are free, so they are not commercial. On one side, they enable the creativity of all our teachers, teachers, teachers who will add different materials to the repository and that is good and let us encourage their creativity. On the other hand, I think we're going to have to be very careful about what we're going to find without approval in that repository, and finally we've put a provision to fit the school as an institution, and there's that part of the autonomy that we're transferring to schools, and there's going to have to take care of what their teachers and teachers are using as additional materials. And here I still have two, three minutes until the end, of course I believe the law will be passed on Friday. Of course, the implications of the law in practice will be shown in the time that comes because I certainly believe that this law is necessary to observe with at least two aspects and in at least two contexts and this is primarily an experimental program of schools for life and then this second aspect is to continue the implementation of the e-school project. At the end of the day and on that trail, and I understand the minister when she says that we need to bring this textbook law to further the reform process. And I do have one question for the minister, and I'm sorry she's up now, but I believe she'll listen to me, if not now, then I'll ask her in the replica when she has her final address. So I wrote down at some point that the minister, a little confused me, and I was really, really confused, and the minister said in response to someone in the replica that the experimental program wasn't testing the curricula. I wrote it down. So, now that's something that's been very confusing to me, namely, experimental programs for schools to live in there, so the program says that the experiment will examine the new curricula first, the other different forms of work and teaching methods and the third different curricula. If the experimental implementation of the life-school program doesn't test the curricula with which we go into frontal application from the next school year with untested curricula? So what happens to the experimental application that we don't know what the evaluation is going to show? If we're conducting an experiment, the experiment has its own legality, we need to know what we're measuring, and if we're looking at new curriculas, different forms of work and teaching methods, and different teaching means, this statement has confused me, which is where we're going to apply in frontal application. And if we look at all this in the context of the Law on textbooks, which, in Article 13, in the provisions related to the experimental programme, says that the provisions of this law do not apply to the use of textbooks in the implementation of experimental programs and that for the implementation of textbooks in schools carried out in experimental programs, the minister can adopt guidelines, so we solved that, that's OK, now it's an experimental phase, we covered it, retroactively, covered it. But now as far as possible, I'm going to beg you to answer me. Maybe I get it wrong, so here I am always in the mood for an argument, for an argumentary explanation, so if I don't understand something, it'll be much clearer to me when someone explains it to me. There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122480	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122481	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedeković, you mentioned a very important question, which is when we have an experiment and we evaluate it is important that we measure, in fact, what are the elements that we measure and how. For example, it would make sense to me if we were to evaluate the success of a certain experimental program to measure it, or through a national prom, or if we weren't going to wait that long through some national tests. Well, I'm just curious, here's what I'd like to know is whether something has been prepared in this way so that students from these schools and their success through some standardized tests can be compared to students from other schools. And that's what I think is one very important thing to know whether the program is successful or not. The other thing, you mentioned that you should not break over your knee, I agree, we unfortunately have had a lot of politicizing on this subject since 2016, some people are portrayed as guru and messiah that will lead our youth into a better future, I think it's a wrong approach and that we need a much more reasoned speech, rather than a non-critical acceptance, to accept some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122482	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol, colleague Bedekovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122483	Comrade Falcone, I agree very much with you and with your findings especially this last one that should not be about these problems, in fact, these are not the problems, so the reality that we currently have in the system should not be debated or sharpened, nor debated at euphoria level, should be discussed justifiedly. For all these questions I believe, I think so, I'm reading it from your speech here, they're burdening you, too, and we're going to have to look together for an answer from our minister, because I really don't have an answer for some of your questions, and I'm wondering. So if an experiment is measured by experiment, if it's an experiment as to how it will be evaluated, which will be evaluated, what I have information I have read, I repeat the program experimental program of schools for life will be examined, will be examined, new curriculas, different forms of work and teaching methods and different teaching means. I expect if it's being questioned by the curricula that we're going to get an evaluation and we're going to get some results. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122484	My dear colleague. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122485	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues of Bedekovic, we are some generations past that time of Shuvara and, of course, is looking for some, some new challenges and some new methods of learning and helping, but what is certain is that some kind of change should happen. But what worries me, and here in one part you said in your conversation with your colleagues down below, who are also top experts, and they referred to here a conversation that was conducted with Mr. Malfred Spicer who talked about how and to what extent it can and should be digitized in terms of some kind of dementia digital, so it should be also very careful. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122486	The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122487	Yeah, now there's a lot of questions in your replica, so I can't, of course, answer everything, I'll start at the end. So as far as digital technology is concerned, the impact of digital technology on how to teach a child is, of course, among other things, a question that encroachs on teaching psychology and, of course, would be given to develop a debate, and of course, I have too little time to answer your question now, and otherwise I am not a person who will enter into discussions and without prior preparation and consultation with experts, in any case if we have a book called the Digital Dementation of the same author who is on the market and has received reviews of the profession then each and every topic, so the impact of digital technology on children in a way of learning and teaching certainly deserved one serious debate regardless of what we can take, take the view to support or not think this or what science is there is there Research, there's a profession to say finally its own. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122488	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122489	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Bedekovic, so here I fully understand you, right in that part of your presentation when you were talking about having some questions for the minister and not having some things made clear to you, how, in which way, it will be evaluated, how something that has gone into action will be evaluated. But that's logical, that's just logical, because it's given up on the entire curricular reform, it just didn't take into account and it didn't go the way that it's logical. What the Minister is offering us is that some pieces have been taken, partial things are being implemented, but there is no clear content, there is no clear goal, there is no one that is the most lacking Vision, question is, where's the vision? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122490	The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122491	Thank you very much, fellow Members, for this question, of course I believe that you and I will certainly get one quality answer from our minister to both my question and yours because the minister knows very well that I support her and support what her efforts in all possible forms of reform, and she clearly knows that if she has taken over the powers that, of course, she must bear responsibility for all of this together. And in this very atmosphere of taking responsibility for all the individual moves I expect, so answers from the minister both to mine and to your questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122492	Thank you, before we continue, let's welcome the students and students of Josip Slovensko High School from Čakovec, who are at our gallery. And the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zdravko Ronko, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122493	Thank you very much, Vice President, I'm very close to upholding this law, but I have one three dilemmas, so I wanted to bring out some of my observations. Namely, by the Law on Education and Education, basic education is mandatory for all, if that is the case, if more of course the Constitution prescribes and guarantees equality then our obligation is to advocate in me and for free textbooks. And that's for everyone. I, as the head of one big city, have since 2002 introduced free textbooks, concessively for all students without any censorship, and this went on until 2007 when the government of the Republic of Croatia took over, and as it ended, you know. So one of my thinking is that we need to change Article 14 and I believe that he will change as such and that what we went with the amendment will be respected and that we will find that limit that simply all students without any censors can get these free textbooks. Secondly, when digitization is, yes, well, it would be crazy if someone were against it. But the question arises, and even from these discussions of the previous ones, should we go like the geese in the fog into this business, whether we have a standard, a plan of use of limitations, or something like that, because that digitisation, we also know that it affects both health and inactivity both on empathy and on estrangement and on training and on brain development. Now, is this the future for us, whether this uncontrolled use will lead to progress or we'll just Google, Google and melt slowly. I think that's where we need to find that measure of how much use, when, how and how do we have it, if we don't have it, I haven't really come across it, if we're going to discuss it yet, if we're going to do something about it, so I hope we will, so that's the other thing. And thirdly, in the proposal of the Bookbooks Act in the first reading, Article 4 in my opinion was well-conceived. I'm talking about the regulation of the book's price. More specifically, the most permitted prices of textbooks. Now, I don't know what happened between the first reading and the second reading, which happened in the meantime, and why instead of the 20% highest price of the electronic work of the textbook, introduces the minister with the rule book. What kind of goat are we going to have with the minister with the rule book now? We have 20%, start and end... I hear it's some lobbies, I don't want to believe it's lobbys, but I'm really gonna raise my hand for this law, but let me explain to you what this transformation is about right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here's the thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122494	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected advocates of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122495	Here's another thank you, Vice President. Well, here's after almost this whole day's debate where we've had a lot of opportunities to hear about the law itself and what this law is about, and I'd like to say that there are some things in the law that need to be dealt with, and perhaps not, which I don't, but which I don't agree with and which I'd like them to be different. So I really think you said somewhere that you would take care to really and taxfully state that scientific facts are important and that must be listed and that must be the basis. What's also problematic to me in the law, that's the part about determining the mass, determining according to the captain's not determining according to the content or character of the subject. I think it should be quite this different way regulated, so I disagree with how you proposed in this bill. I would also like to point out once more to you, although you certainly had the opportunity to hear it in committee sessions and in first reading, and even through the presentations of colleagues in this debate today, which is that we really respect the fact of the time we are in, I appreciate the fact that children are increasingly even better educated and have far more knowledge about the use of digital content itself than perhaps their teachers are particularly teachers of older age. However, just as you have arguments for this intensive introduction of digital content in the process of learning education, education itself, there are already some research that say that I am a learning process and is not so much in positive correlation with what you say. There are studies that actually talk about negative influence and really when we adopt both this law and when we argue, I think we should take care of it. And that's an important aspect. This is very important because what we are doing today, what we are saying, what we are bringing, is something that will affect the future of children. This is what affects what they learn, how they learn, but it will also affect their health. We still don't have that knowledge. But it is our responsibility to evaluate and see what and what the consequences are. What worries me far more and I'd like to hear more from you. Unfortunately, she's not a minister here, I hope you tell her that she'll read what we're talking about, because it's important how the Ministry is run, it's important that what messages are being heard and it's important to hear and see that the person in charge has a picture of our education system. And what's he like? When I said that something was uncomfortable, then I would say that there are schools, so there are many schools, there are also no teachers who are uncomfortable, there are students who are uncomfortable, and the school should be a place of pleasure, the school should be a place of happiness, we must go to a student, to a child, to a happy child because only such a child, such a student will grow up into a man who is self-respecting and who is a happy man. That vision is what I'm talking about and not seeing this minister, I don't see that vision, I don't see it. And that's the problem. In order to have a vision and to be able to do so in quality, we must be, there is a certain passion, but passion not only in the ministry, not just the passion of the leaders, it takes the passion of everyone in this educational process, and of the principal, and of the teachers, and of the students. I've seen this passion with those who have proposed a full Kuricular reform, which you've given up on. I saw this passion in the people who created this process because they went completely, they started with the man, they started with the individual, and it got lost somewhere along the way. I can ask you why? You've been asked by many, however, I think it's hard for you to answer because you don't have the answers, the actions you're doing or what you're doing, it's just saying it in that sense. You're proposing laws that are actually the last in this whole process. Be aware, it's already said. The textbooks, the pills, they're just tools, it's a tool. What's crucial is that these are previous processes and that's very important and that's what I'm talking about, that's that interaction between teachers and students. There's what you gave up on. Have you given up the value, the quality of the evaluation, the values of students with developmental difficulties, the values of gifted students, where are these processes? That's what I'm asking you. You gave up nine years of primary education, where did it go? Where's the one-way class? That's what we have to ask you because I repeat again, this law is talking about tools, it's not about content, it's about form, where's the content? We're in content, not form. Where's all day class, extended stay? What the minister also mentioned and I have to look back on, she said this is a demographic measure. Please, this law is a demographic measure, no, please don't, and that quality school makes pills, so pills, yes pills. I've had one, all the time I've been thinking about how I'm going to say it and how to present it, and actually it's a kind of pill, because look, I'm not talking about taking pills, but it's one addiction to handing out pills because we've come to it, and is this kind of pill is really going to affect quality school, increase quality, learn better? I don't know, hard. You know how when something goes too far with something, it actually becomes resilient and so let's keep in mind that what we're doing right now, we're doing for the future of our children, and keep in mind that some things we really can't support you, until we see in what direction what you're actually doing, what direction it's going to be, and what the consequences for our children are going to have for the future of our children, so the future is actually going to be for this country too. I just have to tell you once again, that what you've done, so it's not enough or just to ease the bags because it's really a populist measure, not to share Tablets, neither to vent the programs, but to really work [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] In essence, the entire education education. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122496	Following an individual debate, a respected representative, Stevo Culej, is missing, losing his right to speak, and the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122497	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will try to be brief, therefore, from my past interventions, I think it was clear to all of us, that I support the modernisation of the education system in the Republic, both in terms of content and in the implementation sense including digitisation, because I think we live, we have entered the digital age and that we should simply prepare our children for the functioning and that successful functioning at that time. They wanted to or didn't want to bring in digital appliances and a complete way of thinking into schools. Our children are already using them today and most of their data they receive during one day is actually received through electronic devices. So we won't be able to avoid it, if we can choose between having or not having pills in schools, I'm willing to have them and not just students, but teachers. But digitisation is one big, also reform step, which costs a lot. And not only should funding be provided for this kind of reform in the state budget and all the budgets from which it is financed, but it should be very careful how that money will be used. First of all, I think of various interesting lobbys that have already begun to gather like cats around the porridge. About that one financial cake. And certainly what we shouldn't do, soil educational reform with any scandals that relate to the possible guessing of any lobby, company, individual or something else. I think the opposition and all the citizens of this country will be very careful how this money will be spent and how people who have access to information will share that information, how jobs will be assigned, in which business, family or other relationship these people will be with each other. And that's right, we all have to figure it out, and we all have to keep an eye on it. When we talk about modern education, I wanted to point out one thing that is very important to me, as a parent and as a person who runs an academic institution, which is learning foreign languages. Today you can hardly be a quality student, if you do not know foreign languages, especially English. You cannot simply follow the literature you need to deepen your knowledge, you cannot simply participate in exchange programs with other international universities and universities, schools, you cannot organise cooperation with other academic institutions as an academic institution or your students are unable to follow such a course. Now, I would like to ask the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to include this particular element in its thinking as well, that children who graduate from high school and come to colleges simply have to be prepared to follow classes in foreign language, follow foreign literature, be able to go to international exchange without being ashamed because they are unable to follow their colleagues from other or European countries or beyond. We are a small country, I remember that in our time we have had offers from Germany and France, let's say they are funded in high schools in their languages of teaching in certain subjects. We refused because we only want to be Croatian. Yes, Croatian is our language, and we need to cultivate it, we need to promote it, and we need to keep it safe. But also, we are a small nation, and in order for our truth to be heard in the world, in order for our students to function with their peers, in order to join the business community of the world, we must speak foreign languages, and this begins from the first grade of primary school, and in this context, here is the minister, who may not have heard the opening part, I think that in modernising our curricula and educational methods we must absolutely take care of the learning of foreign languages so that we can be citizens of full law, both Europe and the world because I have seen too much of these Croatian diplomats who wanted to defend Croatian interests abroad, but they did not know that their colleagues understood them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122498	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122499	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers with associates. I interrupted my debate for the time on behalf of the MPs' club, but I'd come back because I didn't hear an explanation, actually, which, in relation to our amendments and the arguments that we gave would satisfy me, which applies to art. 3.St. 4 of the final proposal of the law, so I return to the electronic textbooks or to the electronic part of the textbook on your proposal, which must contain at least one of the following three features, etc. But, you say, "for technical and methodical improvements, an electronic textbook or an electronic part of the textbook can be changed without the procedure prescribed by this law, after the end of the school year in which the textbook is in use, and before the beginning of the new year", I end the quote. I am now interested in whether the change in the electronic textbook or its part is justified and acceptable in this way, because otherwise you are precise in determining the procedure for possible changes. And there's no room for a different treatment of electronic textbook changes. On the contrary, this way is just opening up the possibility of certain manipulations, public turmoil, pronunciation, lobbying, etc. You can even talk about the open convenience of the creators of electronic textbooks, so I'm wondering how you think, without the prescribed procedure after the end of each school year, you can change this part of the digital textbooks. And not to be any longer, and as part of what I was saying on behalf of the club, I hold and repeat, I hold that we are the amendments to the Education Act, and I am, above all, a legalist, and he is in effect, in the 7th month. This year you are given great powers in terms of the curricula being made by the minister by decision. Well, Your Honor, I don't mind. I have absolutely nothing against such a provision, but I am making you responsible for the complete reform of education. I'm making you responsible. And we'll keep an eye on how you're going to introduce this reform and how you're going to reconcile all sorts of lobbying interests. Let me remind you, when introducing this experimental school and then in my debate I warned that it would be good for all this state money, the money of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, to settle through the Ministry in the acquisition of laptops, not to unify it, to paralyze through schools and avoid public procurement procedures. So, I'm just warning that we're going to keep an eye on you, and I wish you good luck in realising educational reform, but I repeat, you're responsible, you put yourself in that position by proposing amendments to the Education Law. And finally let me, as far as digitization is concerned, I'm not against the 21st century, I'm just learning something a little bit on my laptop, and a little bit on my smartphone, my 8-year-old grandson knows more about me than I do, but he'd almost say the engineer who finished, finished this college 20 years ago. My grandson for a year and a few days, as soon as he sees his cell phone, he's running right away, and his fingers are up, so I'd warn you, I believe you've read the book of Manfred Spitzer Digital Dementia, I believe that, if you're not, I recommend, there's a bookstore in the window on the Jelačić Place, I think it's worth 200 kuna or how much, it's not a waste of that money. But he would have warned you about this book and this scientific research by the esteemed Manfred Spitzer on the recent review of professor, doctor of science Goran Simic. About how the author is not an apriorius against digital media, but he advocates their optimal use, by which he thinks in those ways and the amount that is for people, and especially children of younger age, the best in both mental and physical terms. The author, on the basis of scientific interdisciplinary research, states therefore the review, calls for children to be limited to time by digital media, because when it comes to the well-being and maintenance of our culture, we can only rely on the brains of generations that come behind us, especially behind me, given the years, no. Whether we're all aware of the technology we're introducing together, even if it has positive but more and more negative sides. And here, what I was saying about responsibility, or the Law of Education, to your soul, dear Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122500	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122501	Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Your Honor, Agent Varda. I would only somehow conclude from this statement of yours that you actually think yourself, what, that you won't wait for digitization, right, I think in this time and you, and all of us together, what we really have to do, and, by example, you show, not just the younger ones, but others in our generation, that we have to make progress. It's not just progress in school, it's, it's a general progress, if we're not going to accept digitization, then let's just look at these papers on our tables that we have, we actually have to be the first example of how we're going to function. So in the end, we've introduced the pills here, as many as there are on our tables, one, two, three, a couple of pieces, I think that's the key question, we're not showing that we're going to be supporting precisely the changes that are required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122502	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122503	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. I think I've been clear, I've said that she has her own positive, but there are more negative sides to the brain of young people especially, and I've instructed you, and I recommend you buy this book and read it carefully. And as for me personally, here I have a smart phone, I'm already digitizing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122504	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the final thing will be said by the respected Minister Blaženko Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122505	... Honored MPs and representatives. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Thank you all for your comments, your remarks, your warnings, here I will look back on most of them, although most of them were not directly related to the Bookbooks Act. Of course, I can’t look back at everything at this time, nor would it be polite to perhaps comment in the way some have commented and made personal observations. So, I apologize in advance because this last address of mine won't be structured in a way that I'm going to bring all the topics together, so I'm going to talk about one, the other, the third subject, given that I've been keeping notes for this time, and that way I'm going to look back at most of the comments. So, first of all, we had a comment that, a lot of comments were related to digitization, but I repeat once again that this Law does not in any way force digitisation, just allows where a teacher recognizes that it is good, that it is useful, to use digital materials. What we already know and what we see in the experimental program, that the vast majority of teachers use mixed forms, means digital materials and a physical book, and what each of us can verify is also the most effective way of learning and teaching. So where different materials are used, and digital materials are used mostly to expand what is written in the basic textbook, mostly in order to enable adaptation, both for students with difficulties and for gifted students, and to enable them to actually experience this learning. I don't know how much of an opportunity you've had to see, what it looks like in practice, but the situation where you can get into the Keeps pyramid and see where the tombs are, where there are certain chambers, where they are passing through, how it's constructed, what mathematics is behind it, first of all allows an experience that exceeds that you see a photo or you see a description, read the description in the textbook, and on the other hand, it gives you a far more interdisciplinary approach. In this sense, it is recognised, it is recognized by other countries, it is recognised in higher education, and I am sure that this experimental program of ours shows that this can also work in terms of schools. Of course we should work with it in a certain way. I also point out that we, and in this textbook law, have provided for the retention of working textbooks for class classes, and it is clearly written, because we are safe and all those who have expressed such an opinion can certainly be calm to keep working textbooks and handwritten writing, so it is also in the curricula and so it is prepared in this experimental exercise and this fine motorbike which is and how important for the first, in the course of the first four classes of the school, it should be encouraged and designed, as in this textbook it will also be followed naturally and in the rule which speaks more about the quality of it. Also, when we talk about school equipment, let's say the e-school project, which was originally designed to cover only 65% of schools in the second phase, in the meantime, is a decision made and it's because additional funds are being hired in funds to cover all schools so that it doesn't come to the question that 65% of schools in the big project, 10% in that pilot project, which is 25% of the school won't be involved, so that's solved anyway. Computers for teachers are provided, both through the project and, of course, once in the state budget, the local network in schools is also projected through the e-school project, which has already started for all schools including district schools. So that's how you take care of it, and that's 100% of it. So parents won't pay anymore and the law doesn't impose extra burdens on parents and the law in any way doesn't introduce pills. It's so convenient for everyone to comment on, but the law doesn't introduce pills, I'm really inviting you to look again and you'll see that there's no mention of pills anywhere. And why should we even mention it, technology is changing. The technology we have today 10 years ago was unimaginable, so what way would we, five years ago, have been unimaginable, so how would we prescribe for the next 3, 4 or 5 years or more in the law? It was also a question that she would now carry pills and books, so I hope no one thinks she would wear pills and books at the same time, which would otherwise be the purpose of any promotion to carry both pills and books. If they're going to wear books, they don't need pills and vice versa. So I don't think that argument is meant to be kept in mind. As for the speed itself of introducing this, it is true that children are much faster, easier to accept technological solutions, which we see I will repeat the research that has shown that in the EU and also in Croatia 9 out of 10 young people used mobile technology and internet every day 2 years ago. Maybe we're already in a ten-to-ten-ten limit. Of course, in this context everything, all the advantages of technology should be used, and all the risks should be prevented as much as possible. So it is often mentioned that there is also the possibility of changing digital materials, of course there are ways of changing digital materials, which would otherwise have digital materials that we can't correct mistakes, that we can't improve simulations, that we can't insert new statistics etc. It's the advantage of technology compared to the printed book we've been using for 4, 5, 6 or more years. And in this sense, it is in the law and it is written, meaning that it is technical changes and possibly methodical improvements, and that does not involve any new price, nor does it mean that in any way it will burden those who use it, and the way digital content is used, digital materials have a world practice as they do. As for the topic that was, here I will now look back a little bit on the meaning of the curricula and the remarks that were on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club. So, the truth is that textbooks are being used, so when they're being used that here is still an annual use. Similarly, it is necessary to see that this model of providing free textbooks for a student to be paid from the state budget, I suppose, also from some other public funds, that it should be seen in this sense that it should be both meaningful and that it must be a quality for the funds invested. As far as the national minority curricula is concerned, the truth is that the previous set forgot to launch a debate for the national minority curricula, nor were they built in that first wave, the first one, we're correcting it now. So we've corrected it in a way, for example, just for the curricula for the subject of Roma language, model c, the public debate ended on August 27th, so it's being corrected for other national minorities even though these curricula in that first wave weren't made, I think we should take care of it and take care of it and take care of it. As for the textbooks themselves, the Ministry does not produce textbooks, however, we ensure that when textbooks, textbooks or works or otherwise ensure that they are financed or co-financed. And that's how the law recognizes it. As regards further observations which were related to the text of the law itself, therefore, as prescribed in the law, which is not, which will be prescribed in some other acts or other materials. So the law primarily puts emphasis on the procedure, provides quality reviews, transparent but at the same time protects the commission doing the job and ensures the opening of freedom of choice for teachers. That's what the law provides. Furthermore, it ensures that textbooks are not too expensive because it coordinates or controls the maximum price allowed, the maximum price allowed, in no way enters a competition that we do not violate what we have naturally examined, or we have received opinions from the Competition Protection Agency, that is what is in law and in no way weight in the price formula, I mean, who read it, it has not read it well but we allow these two variables to be linked but not in the formula. As regards the quality and quality control of quality assurance, more about individual criteria, the way the commission is chosen, and so, it enters the Regulation, as it is so far in the accompanying Regulation and when the law is adopted, we will then put into public consultation a rule, so that it can be seen, of course you can give suggestions in public consultation regarding the belonging rule. And the content itself, the very outcome of learning is prescribed by the curricula and there's the difference now. So the law emphasiss the procedure, the rule prescribes clearer quality criteria and the curricula is given content and learning outcomes. Curiculums, new curiculas are now in one form of public consultation, why in one form of public consultation? So because the decision on curricula is made, the decision of the Minister on curriculum and the dynamics of curriculum is put into public consultation, and all the contributions in the public consultation are, in that sense, to the curriculum in question, and in that sense everyone can also see these curriculaes, they are not secret and follow the procedure prescribed by law. So the procedure is prescribed by law and it's exactly how it's followed. We also brought a curricula from information that was not in any way in experimental implementation because we did not consider that the curricula was put into experimental implementation but was applied to it, or how it works in the class. So you also know that there was also a constitutional suit related to the acceptance procedure and in this lawsuit it was not permitted or the curricula has entered into force, so we follow the same procedure with the other curricula. So I don't see why this procedure would be at stake right now because it's a legal procedure. Further was the investment issue. Of course, investment in schools over the past year has been a lot bigger than it has been in the last 10 years. We're talking about state budget investments, and that's also the job of these governments. We'll still invest in schools, there's no choir about it at all. We are also working on a school transfer project in one shift, so I am, today is not on the agenda, but I hope that soon and with this project we will come out and that you will see what the plan is about it, of course, it is far greater means than it can be directly provided in the state budget, but for that there are already signs of the plan that will of course present and you will see that it is a long-term project, well thought out where it is not only an emphasis on having a school in one shift but what students will do in one shift. Of course, some will be asking the question now that you're transferring schools to one shift, which is in the next maybe 7.8 years of investment of several billion kunas, so maybe someone's gonna wonder if any of it's useful. So if we ask the question, then we cannot implement any investment project in schools or any public infrastructure. Clearly, there have also been a lot of words about the harmfulness of digitization in many times mentioned, of course, we can think in two ways. We cannot stop digitisation and technology, what we can do is direct students to use technology in a meaningful way. That's what we do. This has also been done so that, in the new curricula of information, we also introduce a special topic that goes through all years, security on the Internet, in a way that there is an inter-species topic, the use of information and communication technology where these things are also processed and, of course, in the experimental programme, there is a special system that protects students from unwanted materials that would come to their official devices. And it's far safer than giving a student like today a large majority has a mobile device where there's absolutely no protection, so you take care of it and take care of it and so it's still going to be. And as for the harmfulness of digitization, I'm just going to say that, look, when we talk about digitization, it's hard not to remember other technological revolutions in history, so let's just remember that in the late 19th century there's a thing called crazyism where people were destroying machines because they were afraid they'd lose their jobs or that it's harmful, of course. but we can also say that it's a bad car because it can endanger not only the safety but also the life of someone else's. Are we going to give up transport by car because it can endanger someone's health, no, but we are establishing a regulation. Transport security, education about it, traffic signs, education, same with technology. Of course, there was also a lot of questions as to what and how we were going to get and whether I or anyone on my team was involved in any kind of hidden interest. Of course, I'm ready, at the same time as any of you show that in my action there is a hidden interest, that there is a hidden interest in leaving this place and that's okay. But I call upon all of you who have any knowledge of my or anyone else's involvement in the various lobbies, who are making extra profits, to say the least, that's your obligation, but slander is not something I will accept and that I will endure peacefully. So if you have something to do with it, here you go, and that's the obligation of any citizen in the Republic of Croatia, and then certainly parliamentary representatives to report it. A few more words about some other topics, which here, may not be related directly to the textbooks, but given that the questions were asked, maybe every time a minister comes to the beginning with his associates and introduces them, I think that would be good, so that the MPs don't wonder who's here, so here, I'm going to come up with that opportunity now. With me here are Mr. Marko Kosic, who is the chief adviser employed by the ministry, so also the head of our legal service and Mr. who was until recently, so he went to Mr. Maro Alavava, who is a special consultant for public relations, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at a session and his fee for the job, as a special adviser is 4,000 kn per month. So that's his status and his compensation. I am now sorry that there is no Mr. Zekanovic, because then perhaps you could remind yourself that the head of his party was also a special adviser to the minister of culture and in the same way appointed, and in the same way he was given compensation. That was the question, so here, I'm answering that now. And two more topics, one is a lot of questions, where the status is an experimental exercise, which experimental exercise has to do with curricula, how it's being implemented, so here, to use these few minutes to explain it. The experimental exercise was done according to the Law of Education and Education. And in the law of that time, the possibility of an experimental program, which does not have to follow, nor the curricula adopted, was clearly open before the amendments and the additions, which can also be experimented with teaching materials. And in that sense, it's not true, that these experimental textbooks don't have their basis. There is no basis in the law, nor are we now in this law retrograde something blessed because it was not intentional, nor is it necessary because in the Law of Education, there is also a basis for experimental program, as well as a basis for the use of equipment or teaching materials in the experimental programme, which did not pass the procedure in accordance with the Law on textbooks. So it must be clear to everyone. As for the adoption of curricula documents, it is prescribed, so this adoption is prescribed in the Law on Education and Education. And we work exclusively on the Law of Education and Education, we respect this, indeed, opinions and from different debates, and here in particular in the current debate on the decision to make. So the minister, puts the minister in this case, puts the decision on public consultation where all the curicula are attached and that is the procedure. After that, the public debate is being settled and only after that are the curriculas and dynamics of their implementation in the course and there are really no dilemmas about it because it is the procedure. Although these curriculas are now in public debate, several rounds have passed, which are public, professional discussions, international reviews, domestic reviews and are now in this elaborate form once again a contribution to the public debate. What exactly are we doing in the experimental program? That was called in. So it was called when schools appeared, therefore, to their own, that they wanted to take part in it. Well, first of all, we have a much clearer picture of how then experimental curricula function in a peach. What should be done to draw learning outcomes, means which teaching methods, which evaluation methods should be taken into account. Whether the teaching materials that are significantly different, and now, I can already say, are significantly more consistent with this new bill, are they good, as they are used, and of course we take into account the methods of use, which are supported technology. That's what's in the experimental program, and the curricula procedure is what it is. Also, in the experimental program we had the education of teachers, which lasted from April to September but continues to be continuously implemented and information collected from these same teachers, whether this education was good for them and as soon as a set of information was collected is further applied to education for eg. Mr. advanced, and that's what you do. So some of the findings are, for example, that a greater emphasis should be placed on the evaluation of the evaluation method. And it's now enhanced that module in education. It's also estimated how the equipment works, we have, we have data, that 75% of all the pills that we put at our disposal, that is, what schools they got in use every day, 75%. We have an MDM system, which we said, we're protecting students from unwanted content and it's all free of charge for, so neither the state pays anything on the Internet, so we understand each other here. Why does it matter? Well, among other things, let's see how fast some things can be applied, if it's meaningful, and that's where we'll also do the evaluation after the 1st term to see how these things work in practice. However, we must not interfere with the evaluation of the implementation, the evaluation of the functioning of equipment, the evaluation of the functioning of new textbooks with the adoption, for which there are procedures, curricula documents. Although information about how they operate in practice, what should be done to achieve learning outcomes, are also part of which will enter both the methodical manuals and the future procedure of education. And the teacher's education, I said, has already started by 95% of all schools, except for those that have already been in experimental, which are in experimental implementation. So this law certainly opens up the possibility of digital transformations, but it was in no way the first plan, but since there were many questions about it, I answer these questions. Of course, all those who, as I said, who think that there is anything suspicious there can always share their doubts with the authorities and individuals, and that is important. And not to bring up things that are unverified because the problem with us is if schools are equipped and schools aren't equipped. No one wondered why they weren't equipped for 10 years, I guess that was fine then. And now it's not right because they're equipmenting schools. No one wonders why in Germany, the same job is invested in this same 5 billion-euro equipment, in France a billion euros, and there is probably some reason for the equipment. And I'm sure that's where we should recognize it as our common task, meaning, ensuring better learning and teaching conditions, common tasks and government and founders, and I'll also tell all those who want to see the improvement of our education system because we can't stick to old methods, old ways, old media, of course everything that's good to keep. But we can't just stick to it because we can either free the students from digitization because it's not going to happen because they're using it in their everyday lives and they're going to do it further, but we need to ensure that they do it in a safe, meaningful way. And it's our mutual obligation, and we really need to take that obligation with full responsibility and awareness of what we're doing. In that sense, I take my share of responsibility and responsibility, and that is why you will most often see me here and in the House to defend the laws and answer your questions because I think it is important that the minister himself comes to the Parliament and answers questions and hears what your remarks are. I thank you for all these remarks, but I really invite you to support the law because it gives, it is an important step for our system in the parts that I have already said and I also ask you to follow all together how this law is implemented and to warn us if you see any problems in this implementation. Here, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122506	Thank you very much. We have a long line of replicas. Let's start over. The first was a respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122507	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You mentioned an example of the pyramids as needed to know. I would also point out that it is also very important to the framework of reforms that will be implemented that children know who in the Homeland War was the aggressor, who was the victim. If the children knew what was going on at the time of Croatian poverty, where now, here we are all trying to do better. And I would stand by your side, in your claims, where you're asking to be clearly identified if there are any doubts in any form of manipulation, which is, in fact, through this debate, what you said yourself, someone has mentioned, I think it's more connected perhaps to the proposer who suggested you in the government itself, that is, Mr. Vrdoljak, because he is bound by malversions and it's very important that this reform and textbooks don't become something that connects you to divisors or wind power plants, they're actually bad examples. So I wish you all the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122508	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122509	I'll answer the part that I think is important to answer. Of course, the processing of topics that are in the textbooks is subject to both the review and the special commission that keeps it in line, not only with the curricula, but with scientific knowledge, and I assure you that the topic of the Homeland War is such that we will ensure that it is properly shown and shown in textbooks, and in particular will be followed by the Declaration brought by this Croatian Parliament about the Homeland War. So, this is very important and I understand the care of all those who want our students to get the right picture of this really important historical moment because we are all aware that the foundation of the Homeland War created a modern Croatian state and we will certainly not miss the opportunity to show it in the textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122510	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122511	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. So here, your main promotional message was, "The bags will be easier," it's simply when the law is now on its way, when you were, the first message it was, that's exactly what it was. The bags will be easier. But now this last exposure of yours just doesn't speak in favor of it, it's actually the opposite, it says something else, because you said, so I guess it won't carry in a bag and pills and textbooks, books. On the other hand, you talk and talk about it all the time, giving everything that this law is flexible and allows for exceptional flexibility for teachers to decide, which is what they will and how they will get lessons and things like that. What if they're asking for the student to have pills and books, he's wearing both, so what you said isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122512	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122513	In this final word, I answered the question, which is why I did not go extensively into processing these topics. Of course, the bags will be easier both in literal and conveyed terms. And I've already explained that, and of course every teacher who decides to have digital materials or to have mostly digital materials, if he wants to wear pills and textbooks, I think it's an unreasonable requirement, and I'm sure none of the teachers will do it, and now, if we're going to prescribe in any way of that kind of control, I primarily appeal to trust our teachers, to provide them with education, and as I said, neither is it mandatory to use digital materials, and I don't believe at all that such a request could happen, but I'm allowing you to maybe know such teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122514	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zdravko Ronko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122515	Thank you very much. Minister, you were when I was saying something about the dilemmas I'm suffering, because I'm very close to accepting, to uphold this law. I got an answer on two, but I have a third dilemma left, so I'd still like you to answer that. Therefore, in the proposal of the Law on textbooks, it is well-conceived by me and it is a matter of regulation of the price of textbooks, namely, the most permitted price of textbooks. Now, I'm interested in what happened in the meantime, and why is it that instead of a 20% rule on the highest price of the electronic part of the textbook, the minister or the minister with her rule book is all of a sudden being introduced? I don't see any reason, and I can't figure out why, so I'm asking you to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122516	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122517	Thank you. If we had responded to the comments we had on the part of the parliamentary committees, it is in the explanation given, and I can only say briefly, it is that different textbooks can have different levels of digitisation, and of course it depends on the criteria that are also given here in the definition of an electronic textbook in this law. Which actually means that somewhere it can be estimated at 5-10 or 20% and the criteria for that and the commission that will take care of it, of course where there will be experts in this area, it will be given in the rulebook which will also be in public consultation. That was the reason, there was no other reason in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122518	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122519	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'd like an amendment and I'd like an explanation. You referred to this statement and to the curricula in the language and letter of the national minorities, stressing that now, as it is done, the predecessors did not do so, so I would like to stress that these predecessors are your coalition partners, so HDZ, Minister Sustar and Minister Barisic, since the public invitation was called in October 2015 that the formed expert working groups, which were to finish the job afterwards, however, in the mandate of Minister Barisic and Minister Šutar, were nothing at this. So that's why it was late. And it's not clear to me about the debate that you've been saying that the debate on the course class is reopened, since it ended in 2016 and the expert and the public were responsible for all the comments, so I don't understand what it is now 2 years after that, again and in what way it is done at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122520	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122521	First of all, I do, I think it's important that we bring the curricula that is related to the subjects being performed in the language and the letter of the national minorities or they're related to this problem and without investigating who and why at which point he's shown, he's scheduled, I, I confirm that we're bringing this job to an end and that he'll also be ready. As far as the debate is concerned, the debate under the law is a debate on a decision on curiculum, which must also be put into public consultation. Because the truth is, some here have voiced this question, I would say, if it were brought by the minister, it was brought by the minister, or by the minister, but on the basis of again public consultation. And when we put a decision on public consultation, then we have to put all the inputs on those contributions, and there must also be comments on the public debate, and that's how it's done here, and that's how we did it for information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122522	Thank you for the next replica of the esteemed representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122523	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, one more clarification. Namely, you were in one response to one of the replicas in your opening statement saying that, and indeed a little confused me, that the experimental program, thought of the school of life, did not test the curricula. At first, I thought I heard wrong. But then I went to check it out a little bit, so I asked for a phonogram, and really, here in the phonogram it stands out, and the experimental program doesn't test the curicula, I'm asking you this in context, because it really confused me, the experimental program for living in it, so, in its concept, it says that the experiment will examine new curriculas, different forms of work, teaching methods and different teaching tools. Why do I ask you that? If you say a year that you're going with frontal application, how in frontal application of something we haven't explored, examined, please an additional explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122524	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122525	First of all, that it is not a process of taking curricula, because the process of adopting curricula is prescribed by law, and it says that curricula is being passed, and the truth is that we are in experiment, so the experiment is being done according to experimental curricula, and it is evident how they function in practice, but experimental curricula, the procedure itself is something else, and look, we are otherwise world champions in this, in the production of documents, but what we are not doing so well is being implemented, and that is why we have decided on experimental implementation, where the teacher is being educated in the classroom, the curriculas where experimental materials are being placed, the proper equipment and doing mentoring with these teachers, and that is something that is important in order for something to be systematically introduced when going to all schools, and I think that in this sense, surely, when you are looking at the world experience, is doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122526	Thank you. The next replicas of the respected representative and vice-president of this House of Commons, Sinisha Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122527	Your Honors Minister. So my personal opinion is that the state must play a key role in education, so it must never be allowed any partial interests, any groups, to influence any segment of education, so I will ask you one question and read one comment. So the first question is, don't you think that maybe CARNet as a state body should be more involved, especially in preparing different applications, and that, in fact, the private sector only offers some service for these applications? And the second question, if you let me, if I go through five seconds, I think the vice president will allow it, here's one opinion of experimental gymnasts by the new program in the integral version, our school has modules, which means that we don't always have all the items, but two months at a time, the problem is that we learn a lot of material per week, but the good side is that we don't teach all the items, so it's easier because we focus on certain items, and it's harder, because teachers ask us to conclude something ourselves with pills and so on, but in some ways, we don't learn a lot of different things, but we only focus on certain countries, but we still have a lot of teachers who don't like it, so we learn from old books that're copying old books, so we have a million of paper with ourselves. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122528	Thank you. Here, it's a little over 5, but anyway. Here you are, dear Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122529	So, in the first part about CARNet, therefore related to CARNet, of course that CARNet is involved in this and that runs the e-school project, so it is already, CARNnet is the project holder, both the pilot of the project and the big project, and it is okay, and so it should be, and it is done according to regulations, and all purchases are done according to regulations that are both in our national legislation, and even more stringent in the Funds from which the funds are obtained. As for the implementation itself, meaning experimental implementation, it can also have new calendars, we also said, but schools are those that have proposed new calendars and they will also be checked whether some of these calendars function better than existing calendars which are now equal to everything, means in which way, when holidays are and so on. The tablets were supplied to schools, some obtained better, some perhaps not so good quality, but the truth is next, each teacher must be well educated, and we are working on doing so to properly apply technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122530	The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122531	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I am here today and here in the debate, and in the replica I said that I would not want this Law, if I support this Law, to in some way support someone's interests, I have no doubt about it, and for the sake of the public, I did not doubt that you, that you represent someone's interest, but I wanted you to make it clear and you said it here at the pay phone, and on that I congratulate you, that you are willing to step down if it shows up right. So, I just wanted to say that I didn't accuse you of having someone's interests, but because of the public, it's worth pointing out, because here the textbook business is a business first of all, and there is, in public you can see that there is this, the relationship between the printed part and this digital part, and that's why that doubt should certainly be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122532	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122533	Thank you. I don't have a problem with expressing my position and my intentions clearly, and I thank you for the question, I have no problem with such a question, and it would also be good for all the stakeholders in the system to act in a similar way. And as far as digital materials are concerned, we already know and so is the experimental phase, these same publishers that have printed books, have digital materials, only some have gotten a little faster into digital transformation, some slower, and that's the difference between them. I don't come in who, who was preparing, who wasn't, it's for them, but on the other hand, I'll also tell a quick story from Turkey, when they introduced digitalisation into their schools and, let's say, they got smart records, and that's why their whole new sector developed into the production of smart panels that now around the world produce, so it should be seen as an opportunity, when we digitize schools, education, that our economy is keeping pace, and thus is able to compete in other markets.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122534	Thank you very much. I will conclude this debate on this final draft of the Law, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. I'm sorry, I didn't see it, then, I'll give it to you, I didn't see it, but here you go. The Honorable Representative, Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122535	Thank you very much, Vice President. I won't spend much time, just one question to a respected minister. I am sorry that you did not refer in the final presentation to the proposal, even from my debate on the safety of teachers and teachers, in the sense of the initiative to characterise it as a criminal offence against the official. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122536	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122537	I guess it's about providing free textbooks, right, it's me, I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122538	No, no, no, it was, it was this one, it was about this situation if I got my colleague Vardo right, with attacks on teachers and insurance, let's say security, teacher's safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122539	Yeah, so that's, that's, that's, I apologize, so, of course, that's a topic that's been very publicized now and where we've made it clear, I've said it before in response because it was in that first part of it that question, the ministry actually brings together all the stakeholders in that system, it's going to develop an action plan of action. However, we must not in any way support that violence responds to violence, and we must recognize that students who are in the system and they should be protected as teachers, and, of course, it should involve both parents and other institutions. I'm sorry I said that in the first part, so maybe if you weren't here. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122540	Thank you very much, now she's definitely closing the debate on this point, and we'll vote on her when the conditions come to pass. Next amendment to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 384. Excuse me. Final proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, second reading, P.Z. No. 451. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Party of Rada and Solidarity, Refomist, Independent Representatives, Agent Ivan Lovrinović, the Club of Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HDS, HSLS, HDSSB, the Independent Representatives' Club and Representative Miro Bulj. The review of the amendment was submitted by electronic means. I ask the President of the Proposer to show himself about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Education Branko Ramljak, please. Amendment No. 1. The club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122542	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. So as far as this proposal is concerned, it's not acceptable. As regards the subject matter with a heavy educational component, the artistic, musical and technical culture will be approved textbooks for classes that will be prescribed by the regulation based on this law and for the physical and health culture will not be approved by textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122543	Do you accept or not accept? You don't accept. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122544	So on the basis of the semi-achieved agreement, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122545	The amendment has been withdrawn. The next amendment is the HDS Representatives' Club of HSLS and HDSSB, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122546	So this amendment is not accepted, and it is actually an opportunity for textbooks to make a good relationship between textbooks in print and electronic form. In fact, the proposal was not to introduce an electronic textbook in the classroom, but in the classroom, the emphasis is precisely on printed textbooks, and the electronic part of the textbooks will nevertheless be adjusted to the age of each individual student per grade.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122547	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This was a constructive and not an ultimate amendment, given purely in contact with people from primary schools, with directors and parents, who feel it is not good to have children at that age, but in some way, in addition to everything they have at home all the time where they are constantly on their cell phones and tablets, to define that they can be even more and purely for the health of children. We'll give up this amendment, but I don't understand how you're going to apply what you just said, that you're going to individually watch every child adjust their way of working, whether in a printed textbook or in a digital, electronic, I really don't understand it, but you in the ministry will know how to handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122549	The 3rd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122550	The amendment is not accepted because it is already defined as technical and methodical improvements and adjustments, rather than changing concepts and content.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122551	Dear representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122552	Dear colleagues, representatives of the ministry, the Bridge of Independent Lists in his discussions talked about the infrastructure of schools that were in the 19th century and your minister said she was introducing schools in the 21st century. In the debate, we could hear that some kids don't actually have electricity at home. Your minister answered that, that the pills would be loaded at school. How those students, who do not have electricity at home, will actually access digital content, if they do not have electricity, probably have no internet. And I would also like to say, as far as the amendment itself is concerned, which you refused, because here we are talking about the electronic part or the electronic entire textbook, without the procedure, we are asking that the same procedure be for the printed textbook and for the electronic part of the textbook or the electronic textbook entirely. Because are we going to learn about the Homeland War, material like the one in Thessalonica textbooks? We believe that there should be no double criteria in the law, because what is provided to children should be subject to verification and should also provide equal opportunities for all. So we appeal once again to the Croatian public that this educational reform is extremely unprepared, that it does not guarantee children equal opportunities and that we will be exposed to changes that will not be affected. We also want to warn the public that any change in the electronic part of the textbook or the entire textbook can result in additional costs for families, which have children, because it is not responsible whether any change of that electronic textbook will then be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122553	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. [[Intruder: Looking.]] The 4th amendment is the Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122554	The amendment is not accepted. In order to ensure fiscal sustainability of book funding, it is necessary to have a certain share of the price of the electronic part of the textbook in the total price.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122555	On behalf of the club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122556	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, on the basis of the agreement reached, we are withdrawing our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122557	Dragged, thank you very much. The 5th amendment is the representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122558	The amendment of the honourable representative is not accepted, namely, we do not see and there is no really reason why the author or editors of the textbooks could not be owners or co-owners of the companies that make textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122559	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see, this is exactly the answer that you showed what we suspect in the party Change Croatia, change Croatia, so that the key problem with textbooks and this whole story in potential and existing customerism, which is seen by political trade, which takes place between the Club of Representatives Milan Bandic and HNS. But to hear what we have proposed from the party changed Croatia, we have proposed an amendment to the article. 5. Paragraph 1 which reads, officials and ministry officials responsible for education, and officials constitutionally for the external evaluation of education and institutions responsible for the education and education system cannot be authors, editors or textbook reviewers. E, we added the following sentence, those persons cannot be owners or co-owners of publishing companies, whether they are material or digital production. Well, you see, this is where the money goes, that's what it's all about. So the whole attention of people, one significant number of people, is the parties that are focused on business in this assembly, about money. And that is why I draw attention on behalf of the party Let's change Croatia, because we think that the reform of the programme, the curriculative reform, was first to be implemented, and then to upgrade it to the Law on textbooks. No, you immediately set out with the Law on textbooks, whether about his physical production or digital, and that will be fought by the battle, who will be involved, who will earn from it, etc. It is high time we cut off tailored political customerism and corruption in Croatian society and we will fight hard and I am telling citizens that in the next elections, those who are simply dealing with political clientism and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122561	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. [[Intruder: Looking.]] The 6th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122562	This amendment is accepted in a changed form and I will ad it for the sake of importance and read it. Therefore, Article 14 of which is amended and reads as follows: ‘The Government of the Republic of Croatia may, in accordance with the available financial means for each school year, decide to finance or co-finance the purchase of textbooks for secondary school students.’ Item 3: ‘The Government of the Republic of Croatia may decide, in accordance with the available financial means for each school year, on the financing or co-financing of other educational materials.’ Item 4: ‘The textbooks and other educational materials financed by the State budget under this article, to be owned by schools.’ item 5: ‘The way of use, return and renewal of textbooks and other educational materials financed by the State budget according to this article shall be prescribed by the Minister’.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122563	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative of the Jankovics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122564	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, we agree with these amendments. I must point out here that we thank you on behalf of hundreds of thousands of parents for accepting this amendment, and I think that it is a significant and demographic measure and we call for that, as we develop next year, to see if we can provide it for high school.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122565	So you're giving up? ... You accept the amended amendment. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122566	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I can't help but say one sentence. that this is exactly the confirmation of political clientelism [[Intruder Reiner: No, excuse my colleague Lovrinović...]] [[Intruder Reiner: You have no business option.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122567	My colleague Lovrinović, you can't do this, I'm warning you, my colleague Lovrinović, so we can't do that. Well, you're a university professor, so you know what would happen to you... That someone gets up in the middle of the council and starts saying something of their own? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Amendment 7, Independent Representatives' Club, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122568	This amendment is not accepted but we consider the suggestion when drawing up a guidebook that I said would be based on textbooks, on funding and co-financing textbooks for primary and secondary school students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122569	On behalf of the club, the Honorable Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122570	Thank you, Vice President. I can say that we are somewhat satisfied because the main objective of this amendment was to warn the public and you in the ministry that there is, I have never used that term here in the House, now I will use it for the first time, there are indeed local sheriffs who are hiring, who spend money on their own, public money on their promotion and the school is their last hole in playing. And precisely because of such individuals, the Ministry of Education and the Tax Administration should announce how many individual units of local self-government and even the founders of any mayor, whether the mayors spend money on schooling and how much they provided for schooling, so that it doesn't happen, let the state buy textbooks and we will continue in our own way, by old and that was the meaning of the amendment. I agree that this guidance that the minister will make is a good shift in that direction and I agree also that by respecting what I said that we wanted to warn the public that the state in particular can't interfere with the Law on textbooks in the way of funding units of local self-government, it's actually legally a little tense. And accordingly, I accept this suggestion of yours and we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122571	Thank you. 8th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122572	The amendment of the honourable representative is not accepted but the state will provide funds for obtaining textbooks for primary school students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122573	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122574	Thank you very much. With this amendment, I asked to provide funding for the Republic of Croatia's budget for each school year for the purchase of textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school students. I also gave the same in the adoption of the 2018 budget, when colleagues were against most and in 2019, so not long ago and it was not accepted. I expect that the state, because of the social situation, the demographic situation, because of the underdeveloped landscapes, is obliged to secure that money and it is a demographic measure but not a way, the government can this year... torn up with the club Milan Bandic and next year didn't have to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am giving this amendment that the state must ensure every year, no matter who is in power and who the majority is the difference and here you have left still the possibility this can be next, it can be but it means and it does not have to be if it is not necessary to buy parliamentary representatives by the halls of the Parliament. So this amendment solves the problem once and for all. The state has to provide funding every year for obtaining textbooks for primary and secondary school and no weighting. There's no store. Here, he would ask one more fellow parliamentary representatives, no matter who the majority was, because of future budgeting that this trade is not happening, such as Milan Bandic, HDZ, HNS and who works. To play with our students, to play with the poor and thus to increase the points, a colleague from the Milan Bandic club, are you ashamed? Here's the amendment to support, this one, where every year the government's money is secured, no matter who the majority is and not next year you'll be working this way with our students, with our kids. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122575	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122576	The final proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, second reading, PZ No 451, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, Agent Ivan Lovrinović, the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, the Club of HDS Representatives, HSLS and HDSSB, the Club of Independent Representatives, Representative Miro Bulj. The amendment review was submitted by electronic means, and the amendments were made at the beginning of today's session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Let's go in turn, first is the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, he's withdrawn, so yes. Secondly, the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives was also withdrawn. The third is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, he is not accepted by the proposings, and we must vote. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Fourthly, the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party has been withdrawn. Fifth, MP Ivan Lovrinović, not accepted by the government, so please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 6, the Labour and Solidarity Party's Club of Representatives, Reformists and Independent Representatives, was adopted in an amended form, with which the applicant agreed, and it became an integral part of the Law. The 7th Amendment of the Association of Independent Representatives, not accepted by the Proposer, so, he's withdrawn, I apologize. And the 8th, representative of Mira Bulja, was not accepted by the motionary, so we will vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 81 ZA, 19 SUBSIDENTS and 3 OBJECTIVEs, have been passed the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122577	And we move on to the following point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 550. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science and Education Mrs Blaženka Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122578	I thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, and I promise that the honourable MPs and MPs in this display will be much shorter than for this previous law, namely the proposal of the final, final proposal. So the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard was established in October 2007 by passing laws on the same-named trust in the assembly. The intention of passing laws was to establish support and raise the level of student and student standards, especially through the payment of state grants that we must nevertheless say that at that time was far less than today. The prize is then awarded to talented students and students and supporting special programmes that contribute to raising the level of living and cultural standards of both students and students. In addition to all these laws, additional support for students and students for the needs of transport, accommodation, nutrition, etc. has been made possible. From her draft foundation she awarded about 4,400 student scholarships and 1,000 kuna, as well as 30 student scholarships ranging from 500 to 1,000 kuna. It's good to remember that 4400 number all the time. And actually most of the funds are secured from the state budget, when I say most of it then it's more than 95% of the funds for the trust was secured from the state budget. The cost of the foundation at the annual level is around 350,000 kuna and the foundation is, in fact, once a year, a tender for 400 scholarships fully funded from the state budget, and that is its only activity. At that time, it means that at the time when the Foundation of the Ministry of Science and Education was established, it worked under certain conditions where there was indeed and there was no scholarship and there was no refund, no means to support, no means to transport, no accommodation, no diet of students, no less, and in the present situation we need to know some information, so I'm going to take them out. So by 2017, the ministry had awarded 5,500 scholarships from the state budget plus, so including these 400 that were here, for students of weaker socio-economic status, and since 2017 it has awarded 10,000 scholarships. So, almost twice as many scholarships, meaning from 5,500 to 10,000 scholarships for students of weaker socioeconomic status and 3,400 scholarships for the stem area, if this adds funds directly to universities and is awarded, in which case we have about 14,500 scholarships that are awarded annually. And that's twice as much as it was by 2017, so in one year over 14,500, and the foundation totaled 4,400 over 10 years, 95% of the funds from the state budget plus of course the funds that were for the maintenance of the foundation system itself. And in that sense, the process that we have today and the scholarships and the significant increase in scholarships where in one year we grant three times more scholarships than we've been assigned through the trust, over 10 years, has led to the fact that in this system, when we're trying to assess on the basis of the indicators that I've now presented to us, which is the purpose of the existence of the trust, the suggestion that this whole business should actually be transferred to the ministry. It means that scholarships continue to be awarded, so on the top of these 14,500 scholarships that are provided annually, these 4 million per year are added where these 400 scholarships are provided to cover all the needs that have been covered through the trust and thus reduce this cost of the cold drive of the foundation's operation. So this conclusion, in fact, and this law, is actually in a package of cuts in the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes and trusts, envisioned the abolition of the national foundation, with all transactions from its jurisdiction being transferred to the ministry. The law in question also regulates the takeover of jobs, as well as the takeover of property and rights and obligations and scribes and other documentation and workers of the National Foundation for the Support of Student and Student Standards to the Ministry of Science and Education itself, and no additional funding is necessary for the implementation of that law, and grants will continue to be allocated to scholarships. Here's the way, it's conjectured and this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122579	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122580	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the data you spoke of shows that the National Support Foundation for the student standard has not actually done the job that was expected of it. Therefore, if financed by 95% of the state budget, it was not the purpose and purpose of the foundation, which was to find sources of funding beyond the state budget. It is a major problem in Croatia, and only 8% of scholarships come in this way, therefore, from the foundation, from the sector outside the state budget. What I would ask, since the foundation was yet specific, that it had special categories, therefore, children from foster families, children from students, athletes, persons with disabilities, so that it is accounted for in the sale of competitions in the next period, that these categories are to a greater extent financed through scholarships, than it was possible through this foundation, since this number was nevertheless symbolic with these 4 scholarships.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122581	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122582	Thank you very much. Yeah, so we'll at least keep at that level, and very likely increase since it enters into this pulse of funds that are somehow now doubled compared to the previous scholarship period. As for this first question, i.e., the finding that unfortunately with us, this culture, that in some way, from other means, not necessarily from the resources of the state budget, the insurance for the foundation of the funds did not come to life, this is, over 10 years we have seen and a long series of we have had I will tell both ministers and people who have taken care of the trust, it simply didn't work, which does not mean that private trusts or trusts or some other way will not succeed. However, the conclusion is that if more than 95% of the funds come directly from the state budget, then such a foundation has not fulfilled its sense of being a foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122583	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122584	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, it is nice that in a few years we have managed to increase the number of scholarships, i.e., the allocation for the number of scholarships from 5000 to here, today, as far as we hear more than 10 000 and there is actually a good example of how the state succeeded in the end of 2014 through operational programmes here, above all I mean the operational programme of effective human potentials, providing funds, that from EU funds, specifically from... it is now financing more than 10,000 scholarships, for children defenders, weaker property status and persons with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an example, which unfortunately, in some other ministries has not revived as this ministry, so thank Europe, for these almost twice as many scholarships and for those of us who have managed to do the job to withdraw and end these scholarships in the right hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122585	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122586	That's right. So this is a good example of cooperation that is needed in such cases, where from the programming phase, to the interpretation phase, to the summary phase, to the signing of projects and programmes, this job is made and not to be seen, which party, which color this job is doing, because the interest is above, that our students and our students will be above that. What is important is also improved, so I will link it to the previous topic, that the ministry has, for example, fully digitised the whole scholarship process so that in both cases, in both cases, they are fully conducted online, which is significant, until the reduction of the award process is applied, especially since in fact the right to seek students rather than vice versa, that the student is seeking his right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122587	The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122588	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You are saying that you care about the students how you care about them, how you then comment on the case at the Technical College in Zagreb, where the Dean, with his three salesmen, paid the salaries from the budget, bigger than the President of the Republic, and that he took that money from the student rewards, which were provided by the regulation, and which ranged from 1000-5,000 kn. So he took that change in terms of being given to the best students, to pay his salary... Unimaginable in the state administration even at the highest possible functions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder if you're familiar with this case and how you comment on it, if you're going to take any concrete steps, that, obviously, one of the injustices is corrected, and in this sense, which you were talking about earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122589	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122590	First of all, I have no right to comment on a case like this based on newspaper inscriptions, especially if only one side of the story was told in the paper. I, of course, have asked for an indication from the Technical University of both the dean and the board of directors. And when we study all these decisions and materials and see if what's shown in the media is true or should still be taken with the reserve. And of course if that happens, we have instruments and the board of directors will also take measures to sanction it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122591	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This could be said, indeed one small technical law, unlike me, from the other, even when you look at it a little bit better, there is, so I would say at least one interesting thing. So it is certainly good to hear that getting out of the excessive deficit procedure and entering the EU have allowed us to be granted twice as many scholarships, that is, any better, good and scholarships are a very significant instrument of society, such as equating opportunities and giving equal opportunities or at least approximate opportunities to all young people, that they are not only educated but also treating education as an instrument of social promotion. Clearly, we now have a whole series of such laws, some yesterday, that it is based on a decision or a directive or a prime minister's attitude to cut the number of agencies by, as far as I've seen, fifty, different, special offices, services, agencies, foundations, etc., that this is one of these, therefore, the national foundation for supporting the student and student standards, one of those who cut and join the ministry. My view that despite the fact that the foundation has failed in what was the main purpose, which is that outside of the budget funds it collects some funding for a scholarship, that in this direction, regardless of the foundation being abolished, it should go further, so that such a project should not be given up, we have introduced some rather shy changes in this regard, as far as tax relief concerns donations in culture. Perhaps we should examine the possibility of such things getting a little stronger for grant-related scholarships for students and students. In that sense, I ask what it means to be part of this law, that is, an article that speaks of a donor congregation ending its work. Does this mean that, in the future with the removal of this foundation, it is completely abolished and any attempt to find a way to mobilise or raise funds from private donors or companies, in the first order of scholarship of students and students, I do not think it would be good or smart, since, if one method has failed, one should not give up on a goal that is good and positive, but perhaps look for a more appropriate and efficient way to achieve that goal. The law also says that by joining the National Foundation for Support for Student and Student Standards of the Ministry, all workers who become civil servants are being taken over. In addition to some, who do not become civil servants but become deputies, and then, of course, they can get fired from work if it turns out that they have no job at the ministry as it was in the foundation. However, in my opinion, the most interesting part of this g law is usually what we rarely look at, which is an assessment of the resources needed to enforce the law. So, one would expect, firstly, that the directive is that all these foundations, agencies, etc., 50 of them should be abolished, that the purpose of this is, among other things, savings. So there should be some financial effects, therefore, not additional costs, but additional savings. And it says here there isn't one. So, the trust will be abolished, allegedly fired by some people for whom there will be no work, and spent equally. One type of activity will be abolished, if I well conclude from the fact that what is called, the donor assembly, therefore, will no longer be engaged, I suppose, in donors or private donors or companies that will participate in raising money on scholarships, but will save nothing. Sometimes because of what would be said to be an artistic impression, agencies are abolished, and sometimes agencies that do not have a lot of connections and often end in failure. However, the financial effect would have to be seen because if you had one activity so far, as a special activity, and now you no longer have it, then some money would have to be saved, and those money could then go eventually for another scholarship for students and students, which was the main task of this, therefore, of this foundation that is now being abolished. So one small technical law, on the other hand, shows that such cuts to the abolition of certain agencies, services, etc. make sense, or if we feel that this activity is unnecessary, so we are removing it, which I think would be completely wrong because it has failed so far, does not mean that there is no need to try to raise money from other sources outside the budget for student and student scholarships and to save on the costs of administration and another such institution. And that's where you'd ask for an explanation, which means how do you end the agency and you don't predict financial effects, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122593	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122594	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, as one has already said, would agree, so that here we have a law of purely technical nature, and we will remind ourselves that the National Foundation for Support to Student and Student Standard was established in 2007, the main purpose was to provide support and raise the level of student and student standard, which therefore implies, among other things, the payment of state scholarships and rewards to gifted students and students as well as the financing of specific programmes that contribute to raising the level of living or cultural standard as well as students so as to the students of the Fund and here after 10 years of work of the Foundation, the practice has shown that there is a overlap in activities on the other side of the Fund of Science and Education, as well as the foundation of the foundation of the resources of the budget of the Fund of the Fund, which is taken from the relevant to be taken from the national funding of the institutions and the institutions, which are relevant to the institutions and the relevant to the institutions, which are the relevant to the institutions, and the institutions of the institutions, and the institutions, which are responsible from the institutions of the institutions, and the institutions, the institutions of the institutions, the institutions, and the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions, and the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions of the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions, the institutions and the institutions, the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions, the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions, the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions and the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the institutions of the Among other things, the abolition and the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard has been envisaged in such a way as to take over from its jurisdiction the Ministry of Science and Education and, of course, since the National Foundation is being established by law, here today, by emergency procedure, first and second reading, we adopt a proposal for a law on the termination of the same law. Now, here it is only short to mention that here, I am sorry, unfortunately the practice is also the fact that after 10 years of the foundation's work, the practice has shown that the foundation unfortunately failed to fully meet its purpose, and for me the biggest problem is that the foundation at the annual level unfortunately fails to collect enough donations for the grant of scholarships but most scholarships, Most of this money comes from the state budget and there is actually a overlap of both our ministry and our trust, and it seems to me personally, and also to the HDZ Representatives' Club, that the decision to abolish the agency is justified. However, she would have only the need to point out that it should not be ignored that this foundation, regardless of where the funds came from, was, of course, a major part of the budget and I would say every year to a smaller part of the different donations, so this foundation still awarded 400 scholarships to 8 categories at the annual level. Don't forget that, I'll list the categories, I'll tell you why later. So first of all, category in deficit study programmes 243 scholarships, 70 scholarships for disabled persons, 22 scholarships for members of the Roma minority, 10 scholarships for active categorized athletes, 10 students who were placed until their age in the homes of social care or foster families, 10 scholarships for students without both parents and 20 scholarships for students who are parents themselves. So these are valuable categories of our young people, and I would like to give the knowledge here and for the attention and care of our minister to take care that these categories are not denied when the jurisdiction of the foundation goes into the hands of the Ministry of Science and Education because it really is a wide range of very useful scholarships for these categories that I have stated, and it really was very necessary, very carefully to make sure that some of these categories are not lost over time. And also at the end, of course, I must say at the very conclusion that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Bill on the termination of the Law on the National Foundation for Support for Student and Student Standard, and I will point out once again that this Government is among its most important, I would say if not the most important objectives, sums and those relating to investment in young people, especially investment in young scientists, young PhDs with the aim of their staying, ensuring their existence and professional development here in Croatia. I'll remind you that some 10,000 STEM scholarships from the DZF are being awarded at the annual level. And I will also remind you that the Croatian Foundation for Science at the annual level increases each year's funding for young PhDs and after the PhD. Here's just for comparison, the short little analysis of 2015 was, I'm talking about the science foundation of 15.6 million kn, in 2016, these funds go up to 48.9 million, and in the 2019 budget, they're covered by the amount of the order of 49.2 million kn. Among other things, I believe and believe that this is a major increase and significant investment in our young PhDs, i.e. the post-doctorands. So, in conclusion, as I have already said once again, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this proposal legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122595	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives of the SPD on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Respected ministers with associates, nothing spectacular will happen after the adoption of the Law on Putting, Out of the Force of the Support Law, the validity of the Foundation Act on student and student standards. This way, when you get into matter a little bit, it might sound kind of sad to do something against students, to get rid of something that provided the scholarship of our students and students. We know that many students and students, given the state in which many families in the Republic of Croatia live, are the only possibility and some straw of salvation for study, the source of funding. Because parents simply may not have the means to provide their children with all the necessary expenses for completion, which is high school education. However, when we bury a little under the surface, we are not just as brutal and we are not going to raise our hand here as a law that will damage students and students, because it will not be, I believe, especially if we take into account the fact that most of the funds that went towards students and students are being secured in the state budget, only as of tomorrow, these funds will not be transferred in the formal legal sense of tendering, the execution of tenders and the allocation of funds, will no longer be made by the foundation, but will be done by the ministry. It is also known that the foundation has not been working for years, that several years ago it came into the situation that despite the fact that the funds in the state budget were secured for student and student scholarships, they were quite late and were not introduced to students and students at the time, precisely because of the poor functioning of the foundation at the moment when the head man of the foundation went away at the moment when the website of the foundation was shut down, at the moment when it was not clear what was going on with their premises in Ilica, when journalists were trying to reach the contact of the person, asking what was going on with these funds that existed in the budget, why the competition did not actually end, why they did not end up in the hands of students and students. It's actually coming into a situation where you can see that there's something wrong. Afterwards, it is called a new board of directors, a new donor council, a new leadership, all right, but the fact is that, here, the government has now taken advantage of the opportunity to put out, or, as I would say, I'm already a little tired, so my brain isn't really working, with the aim of saving up certain agencies, foundations, some of them are being shut down, so that it's found a chance to see this economics, that is, the demand for economics, in fact, to shut down this trust that has long failed to meet its purpose, and the purpose of little budget interventions, means that the budget, the state, ensures the functioning of this cold plant, and as regards employees and business space and maintenance and everything. But to make the economy, which together with the state, will attract the funds, or, to involve the businessmen, to invest in the foundation, to help, to make this kind of merger of the labour market and the state sector, to invest in these young people, to eventually, through these scholarships, they return to the sector, that is, in the economy, the economy of those who have scholarshipd them. And for a time, it even worked so well, not only at that level, but also at the foundation very well co-operated, it helped the financial and the SUVAG clinic and some associations and institute for the development of education, and it was actually a story that was supposed to work that way. Now it's not like that anymore, and it doesn't really exist, if it's still going to work like this, if we don't have a chance to get more involved in this part of it, it's better to really shut it down. However, what we at the SDP Club would like to get and hear from you today is this, so we will support this law, but if you as a representative of the government, that is, the government can guarantee that you will keep your scholarship to all these 8 categories that have been scholarshipd so far. We know, here we have now had the opportunity to hear from the IZF is funded by 10,000 scholarships, most of these 9,000 scholarships and something goes for students who come from the family, who live in bad juice property conditions. One small part, covering scholarships for people with disabilities, and then additionally on those 10,000 scholarships, there seems to me to be about 3700 you told me a scholarship for students who study regular students in the field of housing, and now what we want is that after the execution of the trust, none of these vulnerable groups remain suspended. So, to stay somehow this level, if not larger, here this year they ended on December 12th, I just checked, in 2018 the last board meeting was held, the badges they held a competition for academic and school year, established a ranking list, so students for this year won't suffer by shutting down, shutting down the trust itself, but we want you to guarantee us that, as this year or to a greater extent, that 245 students of study programmes will receive these scholarships, people with disabilities are already in one section covered through the scholarships of the ministry and that you will guarantee that, here, they were assigned this year 70 that they will remain at that level. The members of the Roma national minority were scholarshipd through the foundation this year, for example 25, 10 active categorized athletes, 10 students who lived until their age or in foster families or were in the homes of social care, 10 students of music and art academys we scholarshipd through the foundation, 10 students without parents and 20 students who were parents. And what we need as a guarantee, or as a guarantee, is that after the funds in the ministry's budget exist this year for these scholarships, we hope that if we don't plan, and we see some benefits for the state budget either in a positive or in that negative aspect, we expect you to find all of this a way to scholarship all of these 8 categories of students. If that's the case, we'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122597	Thank you very much, the next club of representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122598	Thank you, Vice-President, respected ministers with associates, namely one technical law based on the government's conclusion, rationalization, and I don't think anyone would, will have anything against it any more than what is in the opening statement and what we can read from the reasoning of the bill itself is that the question of the purpose of the foundation itself is also being asked. Namely, one good intention did not bring those expectations, those expected results with which at first and started, only when we look at, if we look at the economic period in which it was income, how much it was able to realise the scholarship, financially that 95% of the practical income or the realisation of the scholarship is the transfer from the state budget, 5% of it has earned through its activities, which in total over 10 years has practically earned just as much as the cost of the functioning of the foundation itself. I believe that what the ministry did last year was the minister that you started with twice the number of scholarships, introduced a scholarship rate, and that this part that was from this booth, that those principles and those types of scholarships that the scholarships were from the very foundation, that they would remain at the same level that nothing would be reduced or that certain categories would not be denied for the scholarship itself. What I would also like to say is, namely, a little bit and trends are changing, not only in terms of what the ministry changed over the past year and the paradigm of thinking and has defined itself as a step scholarship and a different approach and among the entrepreneurs themselves, especially among groups of larger companies there are co-financing trends from student scholarships, from scholarships to students, but primarily by principles and principles of excellence, which is certainly commendable and I think that these types of scholarships will be, there will be more and more and more. Not to mention, the HNS Club also related to this argument and what we have said as a basic reason we see both the rationalisation and the savings in that part, and especially what all the foundation's jobs will take over from the ministry which during the last year fully digitised the scholarship process, so that both competitions for the sum and socio-economic status have been fully implemented on the line which has absolutely shortened the process and made it far more transparent than they have ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122599	Thank you very much, we have an individual discussion of Željko Jovanovic, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122600	Thank you very much, Vice-President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, and several notes regarding this law, since we rarely have the opportunity to discuss the position of students and students in the Republic of Croatia, and we also have information recently published by the National Statistics Institute which is a bit of a concern. According to this data, for the first time in five years, the number of graduate students has started to drop, so that the last 5 years, the number has decreased by 2,500, and of course with emigration, one of the reasons that students are saying is that they are studying longer and longer for reasons of financial problems, so that many students are forced to work at the same time and occasionally to secure the funds needed for the study. Otherwise, Croatia is interesting for several data on a continuous Euro student survey, so Croatian students are in the highest percentage in Europe students who stay with their parents almost 50%, also the smallest percentage of students who are located in dorms and what is particularly important points out 44% of students do temporary and occasional jobs to ensure the necessary funding for their studies. The study also showed that scholarships in Croatia are extremely unevenly distributed among those receiving university studies, and thus students receive more frequent scholarships than students of professional studies. High share of regular students who do not pay tuition, receive a 36% scholarship, exceptional students who pay tuition do not receive almost any... scholarships, specifically... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Students living in student countries receive a scholarship 53%, otherwise the problem in Croatia is that we have a large share of the so-called "Students". indirect support and all guidelines that go towards us and instructions, say they should increase the share of direct support, therefore, of scholarships. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important to point out also, high school graduates more often receive a scholarship than students who have graduated from vocational high school. It is particularly high in the proportion of students who have first enrolled at 21 years of age and over, not receiving any scholarships and the same is true for students who have children who were specific to this foundation that has scholarshipd such students, 91% of them do not receive any scholarship that needs to be changed anyway. So the research has just shown what vulnerable groups of students have additional challenges in finding additional study cost-covering passages, so some future competitions should also be taken into account. Therefore, these recommendations from the Euro students report point out the possibility of increasing the need for overall available public scholarships from the need criteria, since scholarships include a smaller share of students, since they are rarely asked for excellence and not all of them are excellent, they should be at least taken into account by students of less socio-economic status, which has been changed in part from these scholarships available today, from 10,000 to 3400 for STEM areas. Also what this research has shown and the confirmation is today our decisions, so it is required to develop mechanisms that would encourage companies, foundations and associations to more actively involve student scholarships. In fact, this research has shown that in Croatia only 8% of the source of the scholarship comes from this private sector. My colleague Pusic wondered if this means that if this foundation stops working, that there is no way to encourage private donors anymore, does not mean that we have the Croatian Foundation for Science, the University of Rijeka has its own foundation, so there remains room where private donors can provide their donations with an increase in the number of scholarships. And at the very end of what I want further pointed out, it is related to STEM scholarships, so STEM scholarships are something extremely good, but the STEM scholarships are only undergraduate studies and graduate studies are not. I don't think that's good and that we should find a way to end a pre-graduate study, students of graduate studies in the STEM area can also be candidates for scholarships. Here's so much, these few suggestions about improving the very system of scholarship to the Republic of Croatia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122601	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branimir Bunjca, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122602	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers and associates. So today we are discussing some improvement in the student standard which is essentially very bad as the entire education system and I am not quite clear how this system has improved in the last 2 years, this minister may well explain it better. I've watched the budget for the past two years and the projection for the next three years, as far as I can see the resources for education and science are further reduced both quantitatively and qualitatively. We see that in colleges, high schools, the situation is very bad. For example, for a single student, the principal, a regular student, 3650 kuna is paid, and then we have a situation where colleges mass register so-called. Extraordinary students who charge arbitrary scholarships that are more than the state gives for a regular student, so often we have scholarships of 7,500 and 9500 and more kunas, to charge students all kinds of fees and fees such as the famous fee for signing semesters, then to charge indices that are nowhere in the world except for Croatia, here is the Minister who deals with digitisation, information could solve, at least she's professional, but we can see that she's not solving. We see that students are charged with making graduate work, defending graduate work, even charging for promotions, diplomas. Then we see that even those money taken from students are not spent on purpose for showing the findings of the State Audition but, as a rule, spent on pumping the Dean's salaries and his loyal few people who are increasing their salaries even though they have coefficients that distinguish them from the other employees by 50%, then this is not just an accident to the Technical University but also at many other colleges that some deans have salaries higher than the President of the State and even as the State Audit shows, pays more than 40,000 kuna net. We also see that colleges spend money on purpose, that very often contracts on work with their own employees are signed, that advances are paid as for some jobs that even pay out loans that many often do not return, that non-intentional loans are taken, even the University of Zagreb took a non-intentional loan of 350 million kuna, that money is armed even though it is a school of some kind of bank, and at the same time students literally survive, a scholarship from a state of 1200 which is far too little to get, and then we see that these same scholarships get say people who go to private colleges, where the scholarships of 30 or 35 000 kuna. In some normal countries, each university should allocate about 5% of its revenues for student scholarships and awards. And we have colleges that pay more than 80% of the funding just for salaries and college scholarships and rewards are some kind of change that amounts to maybe 1000 max 5000 kuna that gets a couple of students, a grip on their hands and can go, until they get it cut off just like they did at the Technical Faculty and all the while just so someone has a salary of 50 or even 100% higher than the education minister herself. Should we then be surprised that just during the term of office of the current minister, Minister Divjak, who stemmed from a relationship with HNS with support, etc., the Zagreb University in just one year went to 130th on a ranking list of world universities and now we are at the level of some African, I don't know, Central African and South Asian universities, which shows enough how it works in Croatia and what a student standard is. That data says a lot to itself. What should therefore be pursued should, in fact, aim not to give students some scholarships that are very small, sometimes only a few hundred kunas, possibly 1000 kunas, as I mentioned, but rather to make education truly free as it is in many other countries of the world, means without any payment, in our opinion from the Living Wall, all available doctors of science. You will, of course, say there is no such thing because you are seeking to Americanise education just as if Minister Kujundzic is Americanising health care, but he has, say, in Cuba. Now, that's where you'll be waiting for me now, so you'll say Cuba is a relic of the past, but I have a deal for you, we have free higher education in Slovenia. In Slovenia, here is another example, and therefore our students are mass going to Slovenian universities to study, in Ljubljana, in Maribor and elsewhere, so you can see that sometimes there is an entire colony of Croats who can not achieve what they can in Croatia in the neighbouring country that has been with us recently in the common country, which has suffered the same way as Alexander Karadjordjevic, Tito, UDBA, whom you want, but still, it has maintained some standard for those who need it most, and these are students and students. And I must really look again at what the Minister said today that children will be able to access digital content because every school has a computer, as if I don't know now, a school with 900 students on one computer will access digital content, it just shows that the Minister Divjak is completely separated from the reality of life in Croatia, as well as her colleagues in Plenkovic's government because if she had read the analysis of the Economic Institute published last year, it would clearly show that 27% of Croatian children do not have their own bed, that 35% of them are not involved in any extracurricular activities at all and that 45% of them do not have their own computer. There's no computer. And therefore, here to promote some high-tech, some high standards as available to everyone and not to be aware that the basic problems of both primary and secondary education and higher education are not solved, it really shows that under this minister and under this Government nothing will change significantly in the Croatian system of education and science and that is what we have to say. The Ministry of Education and Science has not provided enough funding in the budget, there is no increase, the HNS serves only as a pendant to the HDZ with which they are literally committed whatever they want and this has proved to be among other things in all the votes we have had in recent weeks. Therefore, the Living Wall will not support either this law or any law that will be proposed by the HNS in the future, we will support only the Minister's resignation or her shift, which is before and after the departure of the entire government that has done damage to all of Croatia and, in particular, to education itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122603	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, something will say to the respected Minister Blaženko Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122604	Thank you very much. Here I am going to try to limit myself and very briefly agree on the questions that were in this debate. There was the sweating of the donor congregation, of course, the donor assembly in this law is the body prescribed by the Foundation Act and that is the reason they need it and officially, so this new law should be abolished because all the bodies prescribed by the previous law should cease to exist. As for the number of employees, the foundation employs two employees and they will move to the Ministry of Science and Education since we have vacant seats. The cost will be lower, for example, by renting space and having different other material costs. True, the goal here was not exactly direct savings, but the foundation itself was inefficient and it has never actually come to life that we are sorry, and I'm sorry, I'm sure many here that, in fact, the funds have been collected to a greater extent over the past 10 years in this way. The annual costs are about 350,000 kuna, and they are all paid from the state budget, and if we exclude salaries, which will have to be paid anyway, because these two employees, they go to the ministry, then, savings are minimal, about 100,000 kuna, but in fact, a much bigger problem in ineffectiveness, which was also highlighted in this debate because the competitions were conducted with delays so that the results were in April, and this year, when the ministry had already taken over this technical part were currently available and the results were published and the ranking list was published, which, as I said many years ago, there was much later, there in the spring. Also, this year, it is specific that all the people who appeared in the competition, persons with disabilities, students, parents, children from foster families actually received scholarships, which actually means that in different other ways of this category are quite well covered, however, we will all of these categories that were now covered by competitions, retains, or categories, so some of us introduced last year. At the proposal of the Ministry of Science were also introduced students parents, students without both parents and deficit teaching programs, this will certainly be maintained in future competitions, and I am convinced that we will also increase the number of these scholarships. So, surely when the ministry takes over, as it has already proved this year that these scholarships and tenders will be held in time, along with these other tenders that we now have, 10 thousand scholarships from, means the socio category and 3400 for STEM scholarships plus this second scholarship. At the same time, it will be published, processed and I am sure that it will be more and more efficient than it has shown this year. It is certainly necessary to diversify the scholarships, and we must continue to encourage despite this law that this foundation is abolished and the number of scholarships is increased, but also greater involvement of both the private sector and donors in the award of scholarships. As far as STEM scholarships themselves are concerned, it was the same question, that is, why we introduce these scholarships in a different way, and above all to encourage the selection of STEM studies. And these STEM scholarships were awarded for the first time to freshmen, which has not been the case so far. And in this way we really encouraged a bigger, therefore, more enrolment or greater interest in STEM studies because, as I said, freshmen get STEM scholarships. Now, I could talk for a long time about Mr. Bunjec's allegations because I don't know where he gets the data from, but certainly not the official statistics. I will just say that this government in the past two years, I have been involved in this myself, has significantly increased the resources for education and science, and this is visible from the past budget from this budget where the Ministry of Science and Education is growing among the winners and growing faster than it is growing, i.e. the increase is in absolute and relative numbers more than the growth of the budget could give to average growth. Also, subsidies for students have been increased by a new government decision since late September. So more subsidies are important than those you're referring to, so you might want to take a look at some of this new data. Of course, there should be more, however, than you yourself have found, that high and public higher universities are income and resources in other ways, and I particularly support the transparency of work and financial responsibility. And these things you've been saying about some of your personal attitudes I'm not going to answer, but I think, as far as the foundation itself is concerned, we've given enough justifications that the work of the foundation will continue, that all those who have received the scholarships so far will continue to be detained, and that the efficiency of the work will increase. Here, thank you very much and I ask you to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122605	Thank you very much. We have a replica. Honored representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122606	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, there is one question left without an answer. I asked you to tell me if you're thinking that graduate students in their field can continue to receive scholarships, which is currently not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122607	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122608	Well first of all, these 3400 scholarships satisfy the needs of pre-graduate studies and the purpose that was to encourage enrolment in pre-graduate studies in the STEM area and include freshmans. That wasn't the case until now, so enrolment at STEM studies that we had before was smaller and because students couldn't get a first year scholarship, now it's possible. If we find ways to increase the scope of these STEM scholarships, then we can continue, but in this case with this 3400, I say, given the objectives of this scholarship, we only reconcile the needs of pre-graduate studies, which doesn't mean that these students can't report to the second category, means the socio scholarships that are 10 thousand, or the scholarship to excellence where the funds are re-located from the state budget to universities so that they can give.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122609	Thank you very much. Then I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122610	Final draft law on the termination of the Law on the National Foundation for Support for student and student standards, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 550, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the termination of the Law on the National Foundation for Support of Student and Student Standard, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 96 for and 3 abstentions, have been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122611	Now, as we decided this morning, we will conduct a united debate on the following three points: Final bill on amendments to the law on regional development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 540, Final draft law on mountain-mounted areas, second reading, CZ No. 412 and Final Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas, Second Reading, PZ No. 410. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds Gabriela Žalac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122612	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, respected assistants. Here I am glad that we have and that you have actually agreed that we will have a united debate on our three laws because we have already discussed much about it in the Croatian Parliament. By providing more money through the national budget and through European funds, we ensure a more balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. For regional development in 2017 and 2018 we invested 833 million kuna, in 3 years we will invest more than 1.3 billion kuna in balanced regional development, which means 6 times more than during the SDP government. In doing so, the emphasis on integrity is certainly on a package of laws that we have proposed right in the parliamentary procedure, it is the Law on Islands, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, the Law on assisted areas. We only have before us the remaining Vukovar Act, to amend and supplement the Regional Development Act and everything that we have in some way presented to you here. Over the next three years, a new law on assisted areas related to 304 units of local self-government and a little more than 1 million inhabitants has been planned nearly 300 million kunas. A law on mountain-mounted areas related to 85 units of local self-government and 350 thousand inhabitants has planned 117 million kunas. We respect the specificities of the various parts of Croatia and try to ensure adequate use of available financial resources to achieve fairer regional development, which we have also demonstrated through cooperation with the Croatian Community of Countys, Association of Cities and municipalities and the relocation of meetings of the Government in all parts of Croatia. By amending the law, we should not ignore the funding of local self-governments just received over a billion and 700 million kunas of original income, so on top of all that we had foreseen in the state budget. When we talk about the first point relating to our laws, the draft Act amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Draft of the Law was drawn up in the implementation of the actual conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 August, which adopted the proposal to reduce the number of agencies, institutions of funds, the foundation of companies and other legal persons with public authority and the competent authorities of the State Administration for the implementation of all activities in order to implement that act. On this basis, we decided to attach the Regional Development Agency to the Ministry of Regional Development with a deadline of 1 January 2019. One of the activities in this process is certainly related to the need to amend the provisions of the Law on Regional Development and the Government Regulation on what the Agency is doing and we are, in fact, under this Article 20 law which is authorised by the Agency to carry out activities that contribute to the achievement of the objectives of regional development policy in the planning documents, all of which we put through in fact the Ministry in a way. What is also important is to point out that the implementation of the law should also be adapted to the register of regional coordinators and local development agencies and in some ways the minister should appoint a commission on which accreditation will be carried out. We've already done all these advances and I expect that since we're in the same practical space there won't be any problems. The proposed amendments as I have said themselves are necessary and necessary in any case and for the implementation of this law there is no need to provide additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, we are taking over the equipment of the staff of the Agency found at the taken-over jobs and we think that this is a good solution. When we talk about the draft, i.e. the final proposal of the Law on hill-mounts in the Republic of Croatia, it is important to say that we are in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016/20 term. years predicted making all these laws. I would also mention one who was once in the intelligence of our ministry, which is now in the Central State Department for Housing Care, it is also the Housekeeping Act in assisted areas, which is part of a package of these laws. Our ministry has decided to draft a new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. The problems of mountain-mounted areas have so far been regulated under the law that was passed in 2002, which in the meantime had 7 amendments and additions, and we have in some way decided to go into a new, completely new law. The category of mountainous mountainous areas was then entered by 45 units of local self-government that were distributed into 11 counties. The draft law was adopted at the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament after everything we discussed on our committees and everything we discussed with the public. The aim of the new law is, surely, to enhance the competitiveness and achievement of our own development potentials in mountain-mounted areas. The law is a legal framework that unites the matter of mountainous mountainous areas. What is very important to you Assembly representatives is that through the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and through the Law on assisted areas for the first time since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, we will have a law that unites capital investments of all so-called resors and state and public enterprises in these areas, as the Island Act has for example for many years, and then we will know absolutely all the information about it and inform you once a year in the Croatian Parliament, which is how we are actually implementing these measures. In the preparation and implementation of measures, programmes and projects for the development of mountainous mountainous mountainous areas, they will participate and participate primarily in the units of local self-government that come from this area but of course other central authorities of the state administration and public legal authorities that can certainly contribute to the development of these areas as part of their portfolios. Our ministry will coordinate and monitor the effective implementation of all measures and, of course, determine, determine in what way and at which point we will in some way monitor the effects for each of these individual areas that we have here, I repeat again through the Law on Islands surely presented well at a meeting of the Government that we had recently on Hvar. How much investments are in each individual year in which sectors, which resolve how the effects are achieved through these laws. With the final proposal of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, we have set out a programme for the development of mountain and mountainous areas to identify concrete measures, projects to promote the development of mountainous and mountainous areas, holders of their implementation, implementation and resources, and the methodology for monitoring the implementation and evaluation of, of course, individual measures. This programme will combine all activities that will be carried out in mountainous and mountainous areas, which stem precisely from this law, as well as regulations governing the economy of social and demographic policies, strengthening administrative capacity. All key stakeholders contributing to the development of the mountain-mounted area, as they best recognise the needs and specificities of their area, will participate in the development of this programme, i.e. in the development of concrete measures and activities that take place in the mountain-mounted area. In the State budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of our ministry and it is important to say the activity called, the development of mountain-mounted areas, which will also fund these programmes and projects that contribute to just strengthening economic and social cohesion and the achievement of the concept of sustainable development through the following measures, which is to improve the municipal and social infrastructure in the mountain-mountan area, remove the consequences of the difficult climate conditions in the mountain-mountan area, prepare project technical documentation planned to finance from the European Structural Investment Funds, prepare infrastructure as a prerequisite for investment and economic recovery of mountain-mountic areas, promote competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship through support for activities that are of importance for economic development and ultimately subsidisation of persons with deficit interests and persons who can contribute to improving the quality of life in mountainareas. It is also foreseen by law to develop and implement an integrated territorial investment programme that we can now see in our operational programmes. We believe that just in order to prepare the targeted calls for this area, we can, together with our Gorski Kotar and other parts of the Republic of Croatia that belong to the mountain-mounted area, certainly prepare concrete projects that are important to them. What we predict by making this law is also a Croatian mountain product aimed at promoting production and plasma and promoting the original and innovative products of these areas. We have very good experience with the project Croatian island product, which for many years our ministry has funded and it actually means encouraging entrepreneurship in these areas. When we talk about how we also want to introduce a mountain card, public administration as a means of authentication based on which residents of the mountain-mounted area will exercise the right to privileged public transport for natural persons residing in the mountain-mounted area within the county line traffic and the privileged use of raw materials and natural resources of the local area. What is important to say, and we also have a long number of years, and we think it is also important in this part to support, and this is a special criterion for selecting projects, when we talk about supporting projects in the mountainous and mountainous area that are planning to apply to the European Structural Investment Funds. It is also not necessary to ignore the measure relating to sustainable production and consumption, thus encouraging the use of green and sustainable criteria in the public procurement process. Also with the aim of reducing resource consumption, environmental pollution, strengthening of the original domestic product. Encouragement of activities as a measure of importance for the economic development of mountain-mounted areas, which is woodworking industry and production, ecotourism, cultural tourism, health tourism, production based on the tradition of mountain-mounted areas. Also production and processing of products marked Croatian mountain product is something our ministry plans. The new law will redefine and cover mountainous areas among other things. In order to identify the range of mountain-mounted areas, we will apply a multi-criteral selection method in which geomorphological, climate, demographic and infrastructure criteria are evaluated. The total number of points achieved in units of local self-government is a composite indicator, and the maximum score for all the criteria scored is 6, and the limit for inclusion in the mountain-mounted area is 2.5 points. The status of mountain and mountain areas within the meaning of this law cannot be achieved by units of local self-government which are covered by a special regulation governing the development of the island and which, by their territory, extends along the seashore and have a population density greater than 20 inhabitants per km square. Local self-government units classified according to the development index in three groups under the provisions of the new law. The first group consists of units that have the status of the assisted area, i.e. the 1st to 4th group, the second group of units that according to the development index are located in the 3rd and 4th quarter above the average rating units of local self-government, which is, of course, related to the Regional Development Act, i.e. the 5th and 6th groups and 3rd groups, which are units that are located in 1, 2nd quarter above the average rating units, which are the 7th and 8th groups according to the current development index, which is still in force for the next two years. The necessary financial resources for the implementation of this law, the means to implement programmes and projects that will come from the mountain-mounte law will be provided in the state budget and I am pleased that in this very Croatian Assembly we have actually made in some way and the decision to increase the funds originally provided for in the mountain-mountan area, 117 million kuna is certainly not a negligible amount when we talk about the implementation of this law and, of course, it is always worth adding all that the mountainous mountainous area is returned through the Law on the financing of units of local regional self-government. Finally, let me also present to you the Final Draft of the Law on the Supported Area, we have discussed this very much, and I am pleased that we have introduced it into the mandate of this Government, that it is no longer part of the Law on Regional Development as Chapter 5, but is now a special law which certainly deserves the special attention of this Government. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to develop the status of assisted areas has acquired 304 units of local self-government in which nearly 1/3 of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives. The problem of assisted areas was previously referred to in earlier times in the chapter of the Regional Development Act, however, the draft bill was adopted at the 9th session of the HS and in accordance with the conclusion of the HS, we followed all the comments and proposals, and we prepared our Final Draft of the Law on Supported Areas. The aim of this Law is to provide the assisted area with a basis for strengthening competitiveness and achieving its own development potential. We believe that special attention should be paid to these areas, which we have already shown through competitions relating to both the state budget and, of course, European funds when we talk about how to help these regions and give them some advantage in how to achieve their own potential through the development projects they have prepared. The law is a legal framework that unites the matter of the assisted area, regulates, of course, other specific regulations. With the draft final draft Law on Supported Areas, our Ministry has prescribed that we adopt a Programme for Sustainable Social and Economic Development of Supported Areas, and do not forget, parliamentary MPs, I ask you, that all previous laws, when we talk about regional development policy, have prescribed the adoption of a programme of concrete, etc., have never, in any term of office, nor have I asked you to respect what this Government and this Ministry now wants to do finally in the context of what we have already achieved through concrete measures. I am deeply convinced that in the coming years, in the full sense of that word, we will achieve the potential of these undeveloped areas. The programme of sustainable social and economic development of assisted areas will define concrete measures within the administrative areas of competence and other central authorities of the state administration and projects to encourage the development of assisted areas, operators and implementation activities, the monitoring methodology for the implementation and evaluation of individual programmes. I think it should certainly be pointed out that everything the programme contains will be applied and implemented in the assisted area resulting from this Law, but also from regulations, of course, which regulates everything that is in some way important for the development of undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia. All the key stakeholders that contribute to the development of the assisted area, since they best recognise needs and specificities, I think they should participate in the preparation together with us of this Programme and develop all the measures, and for this very reason I don't think that the Programme should be part of the Law, I think that it should be adopted on the basis of the year, when we see how these individual measures should be reflected, look exactly at the implementation. What is most important is that in the state budget in our Ministry of Activity and the development of assisted areas from which these programmes and projects that contribute above all, the sustainable development of the local community, will be defined in a division called activity, meaning, the development of assisted areas, the improvement of municipal and social infrastructure in assisted areas, the preparation of documentation, the preparation of investment infrastructure, the creation of conditions for raising living standards, the improvement of infrastructure in areas populated members of national minorities. The development and implementation of the Integrated Territorial Investment Programme, we have already shown that through and through the European Funds, here at the government's session in Karlovac, a new coverage of the areas for the most underdeveloped part, after Slavonia, it is a safe area of Slunj and parts along with, therefore, the border. We have made a decision on the Sunj intervention plan and a wider area, which is absolutely significant under the poverty map, lagging behind in development. Speaking of which, I can also announce on Monday that we will go to Imotski and mean, the Imotski region also provide an intervention plan to help in this area that we have talked about several times at all possible levels and indeed, we respect all the needs of the terrain and we will try in all possible ways to prepare projects that will make people live there, if they have moved back to those areas, because I think they are sure to trace what they are doing in the EU in some parts that must have suffered the same thing from what we call eviction after exactly these plans and programmes have returned their population to that area. When we talk about the specific criteria of project selection, then I must always go back to how in developed parts of the Republic of Croatia then they rated these precisely the criteria as bad. Why 20% more points are awarded in the assisted area through all European competitions from all operational programmes, why through the European Funds and the Fund for the Co-financing of our Ministry are allocated more funds for these areas, but we believe that this is the only way we can contribute to the equal development of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about employment in assisted areas, encouraging the employment of persons of those professions who contribute to improving the quality of life in the assisted area will certainly be in the focus of interest and, of course, tax relief for assisted areas. Taxes carrying out an independent activity in assisted areas may exercise the right to support small value in accordance with the Income Tax Act and the Profit Tax Act. It should not be disregarded in the Law on Supported Areas and the measure called Nature Protection Fee, the right to cash compensation, from the sale of a ticket to visit a protected area, can be achieved by units of local self-government up to 6% net, and units of local self-government that are located in the last quarter above the average-ranked units up to 5.5% net and which have a protected area in their territory. The necessary financial resources are of course large, we have therefore provided 94 million and 600,000 kuna in relation to the original proposal, in addition to this, means for the development of assisted areas and other activities called improving infrastructure in the areas of populated, members of national minorities also in the next budgetary period, means in projections for the next three years. Inside the budget... I have already said how much for assisted areas, through the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, billions and 700 million kuna, this government has put into the original revenues of these units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I would just say something that I forgot to mention at the Law on the mountainous mountainous area. We therefore increased the forest contribution in the second law which, of course, is relevant for the mountainous mountainous area to 10% and that is something that the Gorans certainly welcome and want to see in the next period. In addition to these funds, I would say that it is safe to see through the programmes and measures we are working on only in the following year when we accumulate in 2019 and add up all the results of this law which will then mean exactly reporting on capital investments in these areas because the Croatian Parliament has never received that information and the Government of the Republic of Croatia how much exactly the investment is coming from which the funds are right in the assisted and mountainous area. I am deeply convinced that it is this legislative regulation that we are going to contribute to the management of all information about each sector, about every resolution that we are planning and how we are planning to do in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122613	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by almost everyone who's a representative who's in the hall, so we'll go as they say. The first came from a respected representative, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122614	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I have come forward with a brief replica on the subject of amending the law on regional development is one fact that it is really a matter of technical changes, but I would like to talk about content in this replica. And this government composition is not sufficiently efficient and successful in withdrawing funds from EU funds. There's a lot of reasons for that. I'll list everything from my point of view a few. First, there is sub-optimation from local to state level. Secondly, in certain ministries, people are definitely acting overseas and very, very inertly, and that's what I was talking about today. The third thing, where I think you as the minister of a very important portfolio, will have very bad support from other colleagues in other ministries and amendments to this law don't really give us the guarantee that in a year's time, and we'll all be successful. Your success is a success for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for all craftsmen and for all entrepreneurs, and I wish it to you, but I'm afraid that the amendments to the law will not achieve that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122615	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122616	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I do not know if you are disappointed that in this time of the law, the laws in which two-thirds of the forgotten Croatia are concerned. We searched this morning, but the President of the Parliament didn't agree and the majority of Parliament agreed to discuss it in the morning. Unfortunately, and many MPs therefore... Today they are on the advent, watching the lights of Zagreb shine and they forgot where they came from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the most important law for two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia. That's the first one. The second is that your ministry has made the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, and we don't know at all which units of local self-government and which areas will, by new indexation, or as you say, fall into that area, which means that it's a mockery. We have no measure, no measure we expect. And most importantly, withdraw this law because your ministry is doing major damage to the Republic of Croatia. We were last to withdraw funds in the EU, Malta has overtaken us, we are at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122617	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122618	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, in the area of the mountainous mountain part of Croatia currently live in 190 thousand Croats, which is 12 thousand less than the last census in 2011. This law has a 40 million kuna financial envelope. I tried hard and together with the City Association made a financial analysis of all the cities in the mountainous mountainous area of 2014, in '15, '16, '17, '18. We all lost 564 million kuna in parallel to 2014; this is by execution; you can ask Minister Marić at the Ministry of Finance. And if you tell us now that the compensation measures are equal, they are not, they are total if you look at income tax revenue and all compensation measures for the existing 45 cities 390 million kuna, following the execution of aid and income tax in 2014 amounted to 466 million kuna. That's 76 million kuna less. So not that they are, they add 40 million kuna, but these 76 million kunas are not returned. And we're talking about life in the mountainous mountainous area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122619	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122620	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Minister of this legislative package is, by me, the most controversial Law on mountainous mountain areas that is non-transparent, discriminatory and completely unambitious. So if we look at how many people live in that area you say each of them will get 100 kuna. Do you really think that 100 kuna will prevent demographic disaster and ensure the return of inhabitants to mountainous mountainous areas? It's like a gift from New Year's Eve to the residents of the Gorski Kotar, for example. One box wrapped with colorful paper, a colorful ribbon, and you give it to them, and when they roll that colorful paper around, they open the box that they find in it, nothing. Here, give me one measure and the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas that will allow you to have a young doctor with a family and two children come to Gorski Kotar and work in medical general medicine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122621	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122622	Thank you very much, dear minister, I would disagree with my colleague Jovanovic, but I would say that the Law on Supported Areas is significantly harder, looking at if you were to distribute the funds you provide, which are not mentioned in the law, then we would come into an ideal one situation, so that each local self-government would get something less than 400,000 kuna. 400,000 kuna for economic development, for demographic reconstruction, for the improvement of infrastructure, for all possible measures of 400,000 kuna, the entire 400,000 kuna per local self-government. I think it's about looking at all those measures that are listed inside, and it's not the content of this law, there's everything else piled up, housing is one other law, financial balancing is one other law, it's the third law. We can't put everything under this law, but we're looking at what this law is about. Maximum, if everything is equal, everyone gets a large and small 400,000 kuna that will solve everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122623	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122624	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, when you spoke about the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, you said that the basis of the criteria changes the scope of this area, i.e. it will be greater. In the communication of you or the Proposer on committees with the public, we talk about the number of 85 units of local self-government, but as parliamentary representatives, we do not know which these are, these are local self-government units and this can lead to some lack of transparency in this context. Furthermore, this law does not change the criterion of coverage based on the boundaries of local self-government units, so let's say. One town of Ozalj, which is low in most areas, still has a 30% mountain-mounted mountain-mounted area above 1000 metres above sea level, so it is for Croatian occasions a large mountain of Žumberak where it has settlements above 500 feet above sea level, but I am afraid that the town of Ozalj They won't be part of that mountain-mounted area. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122625	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122626	I thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, I propose that we immediately declare all of Croatia undeveloped and pass only one single law. Because now you've united three laws, so we have a law on hill-mounted, regional development, islands, assisted areas, we have a program for Slavonia, and you've announced countless more programs, and now I'm setting up what's the point of all this. Because what Mr. Paninic said with 400,000 kunas if we divide into those 40 million into 85 cities, we need the law to do that. Turns out what Minister Divjak just said that we are world champions in the printing of the law and it turns out that this government is just printing, printing, but we are also world champions in more complicated things. So let us compare ourselves with the example of organized countries at our committee's thematic session was an example of Switzerland, Austria and France, where these undeveloped areas have become a hit. for life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122627	Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative and vice president of this house, Cynthia Hajdaša Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122628	We can agree that in this.../incomprehensible law regarding regional development that we can have different approaches, so theoretical and practical and scientific and that most of us will say regional development theorists are talking about something called territorial capital. So, something quite new, and I note that in the proposal, therefore, these laws concerning regional and local development, this law on mountainous and mountainous areas, in fact, are so slightly unambitious and that little from scientific and professional perspectives are unambitious. Because no EU country therefore has a uniform view of local regional development, but is trying precisely because of its own historical heritage and also because of its different demographic, economic trends, some solutions have their own. So I urge you to try to think about settlements instead of JLS because a very unfair system will be created where some municipality or city will be in the mountainous and mountainous areas and others. Because of some other characteristics, they won't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122629	Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122630	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, here I am first grateful for the intervention plan for the city of Imotski, for all the imotski municipalities, it is not about selectivity, we also talked about Vrgorec, Vrlica, Sinj, Trilj, so I am grateful for the increase in funds related to the amendment we worked with Mr. Šipić, colleague of Puh. Of course, if we had all our colleagues here tonight from the mountain-mounted area so that these catalogs would be big and talk about the hard life and management in those areas, but we need to look at the picture wider and what you were saying in your presentation. We forget that even with tax packages, we thought of such things, we forget about the Taxation Act that we were thinking about line transportation of students who do not have an economic price, so I welcome this mountain card that will also help with line transportation as well as Croatian mountain product. So, all the amendments and additions to these laws that serve the improvement I welcome, of course the improvements can be large and larger but we are depended on fiscal capacity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122631	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122632	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and we all know that overnight, of course, we will not change everything, but these measures are a major shift in order for the undeveloped areas to reach it. We see that in the next three years, the Law on Supported Areas for 304 units has provided more than 300 million kuna, for that mountainous mountainous mountainous one, so that 85 units are 117 million kunas more, which is certainly not negligible if we take into account that there is a project of Slavonia where 8.1 billion contracted funds of which, here I can only say in my county so far 885 million kuna, are certainly the shifts that we all want to make those undeveloped landscapes faster and go, and improve the standard of citizens in these parts, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122633	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122634	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, in the opening argument, the reasons for which the Law is adopted are the basis for the Law which was adopted in 2002 with the application of the year 2003 and it is very clear, meaning, by the Law of the Municipality and the cities that have that status, they are taxingly stated in the Law itself. Why didn't this bill of law, the new Law, go by these principles, by that principle, not in a way that we here as it could have been concluded that we were bidding whether this or that municipality had a right or not. The criteria clearly defined, that is one thing, but precisely for the very reason that I believe that through the discussions that would be here, they would be far more relevant and that for those programmes that the Government or the Ministry must do, they would already have a very large number and certain data, and I believe that they would be derived from certain and measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122635	The next replica of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122636	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear Minister, we hear that the great criticism of the amount of funding provided for the implementation of these two Investment Laws in the mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas, and I am sure, not only us, but you would be far happier that these funds are also significantly higher. However, as colleagues often speak about the Island Law and believe that there is much more resources for the islands, I would visit here that, when we looked at the statements on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, we could see that the Ministry singled out 181 million kunas, and a total of projects worth 1.7 billion kuna, which means almost 10 times more. It is also foreseen in these laws that, with the Ministry of Regional Development, the other national central authorities invest each one depending on their area and mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122637	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122638	Here, I'll relate to exactly what my colleague, Martinchev-Juritch, said. So here, I think it comes from the wrong premises, so this is where the number of municipalities, cities, etc. is divided. with the means that are provided here, which is wrong. So these are the initial funds that need to be encouraged to withdraw the funds that are exactly, among other things, and this, by borrowing eiba, where they withdraw for part of the national funds or co-financing of that national part, so that these municipalities and cities have quality programmes and withdraw additional funds. So it's actually an initial thing to encourage all of us to work on real projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122639	The next replica of the respected representative of Sanja Putice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122640	Thank you, Vice President HS. Well esteemed Minister, from this law package that you present to HS today you can see how much this government is actually seeking a balanced and even development of the Republic of Croatia as far as possible, and this is seen by your constant communication with Croatian mayors, mayors and mayors in which you are reviewing their needs. However, I would like to point out here that this Law, this package of the Law, has nevertheless found ways for certain municipalities and areas in the Republic of Croatia to recover some of the funds that they have projected in their budgets at some point when these areas have lost the status of special state care. This is one of the ways that you helped them anyway because when they were planning their budgets, at one point they ran out of funds, and of course by changing these valorizations related to the development index. In any case, I believe that the regional coordinators you're going to appoint will also bring that role that will be in contact with the Ministry and with all the needs of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122641	Thank you. Now it's on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, I think, colleague Bulj wants, colleague Pranic, please. Yeah, yeah, yeah, and which one of you? Okay, I realized that one of you on behalf of the club was looking for a break, so I'm this one, so I told my colleague Bully first, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122642	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. Dear colleagues and fellow ministers. We suggest you withdraw this law which is a very important law that has come the last day, the last point, when we come before the constitutional break, by the Constitution prescribed by our Parliament. This is a very important law. We haven't solved anything with this law, and the interest of the representative who's here, you've seen in the replicas that very few MPs support. Once again I point out, withdraw this law that solves nothing, this law is essentially just a pirate. This law is proof that your Ministry has no intention of helping our people. You are referring to the Government, our underdeveloped areas, you are calling for the Governments in Split, so everything you said in Split, I have given the amendments to the budget, nothing is accepted. What you are invited to, and five times you have opened the same projects in Dalmatinska Zagora, as well as in other areas, Ravce, Drvenik. I once again ask you fellow MPs to agree with your clubs, you ministers withdraw this Act where you do not give a single measure, you have not resolved this Act, and which, local... They fall into hill-mounted areas, and you give this Act, and it's not funny, this is about 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every visit you make in a particular part, an undeveloped part of the Republic of Croatia, is a hill-mounted area, only a full number of buses and crying parents at bus stations, not in maternity homes, we no longer have them, this is a serious law, and these fellow parliamentary representatives, who are calling for those areas, and they are not here in the Assembly, should at least be disgraced, disgraced. I'm looking for the ministers, withdraw this law that last nailed the box 2/3 of Croatia, is not meaningful. Give one measure you've given constructively here, not one, not a triba mountain card here, but obviously just a HDZ card,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122643	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Of course I'll take a break, so I'll see you in 18.28 minutes. SESSION Interrupted at 18.20 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.30 HOURS]] If not, then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be given time by colleagues Bulj, Pranic and Panenić, I do not know which order, first of all, my colleague Pranic, I see, is ready with the papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122645	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is not only Zagreb and what is seen from the Upper City, Croatia is Dalmatia Zagora and Lika and Slavonia and Gorski Kotar and Slavonia. And all of our citizens under the Constitution should have equal rights and living conditions. Both the citizen in Vrgorec and Delnice and Lepoglav and Orahovica, as well as someone living in the center of Zagreb, and we all know that this is not true in Croatia, and it should be the policy of regional uniform development. We know that many Assembly MPs come from an assisted and mountain-mounted area, but here, it is unfortunate that today in the assembly when two really important laws are being discussed for the mountain-mounted and assisted area of Croatia, it is two-thirds of Croatia's surface, many parliamentary representatives are not even present, and many probably forget the end from which they come here to vote in Zagreb, most often on Fridays. In the area of the hill-mount of Croatia, from which I come, currently lives 190 thousand Croats. That's 12,000 less than the 2011 census. It's a city your size, for me next-door Makarska, like he's moved out. Indeed, the mountainous and mountainous areas are living the most difficult and climate and vertical decomposition of the terrain are both unfavourable for people and investors, so it is no wonder why we have such demographic defeating numbers, emigration, I say, 12 thousand people, since 2011-2017. Currently, according to the bill, we do not even know who enters the mountain-mounted area, but we do know the financial envelope of the law, within the framework of the proposed budget and the adopted budget for 2019 with projections 2020 and 2021. It's about 40 million kunas. I often say, how much money, how much music. Since we do not have some big money, music will be less and less in the area of the mountain-mounted part of Croatia. Seven times the law changed and every time it got worse and worse. I said in a replica to your exposure to expose a fan who keeps repeating himself here in a assembly about the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and compensatory measures. I'll thank you first and join the cities for one comprehensive analysis of all the cities in the mountainous and mountainous area. It means an analysis from 2014-2018 with results up to 11 months. 2018 and projections and when we look cumulatively in 2014 our citizens have had 466 million, 2015 through local budgets from the mountainous and mountainous areas. 313 million, 2016. 289 million, 2017. 308 million, now according to the 390 million projection. I do not know, that someone convinces me that 390 larger numbers from 2014 were 466 million, so we are still short for these 76 million and these are not short cities but our citizens do not have 76 million kuna available through various investment projects and investment plans of local self-government units. This injustice has not been corrected, and in the new law on the mountainous and mountainous area, we have indeed expected much more. The draft itself as a draft may be whatever, but as I said in the financial envelope of that law, it's only 40 million kuna. I know that there are a few parliamentary representatives from the parliamentary majority who come from the mountainous and mountainous areas, and I really don't understand that I can't press both the government and the prime minister and the finance minister to say that they live in the mountainous and mountainous area, so I'll also tell the assisted area. You have 500 juniors less in primary schools this year. It is certainly not in Zagreb. It must be in the rural area of Croatia. An assisted and mountainous area. You have 2600 less students in high school. It is certainly not in Zagreb either. It must be in rural areas, when I'm talking about mountain and mountainous and assisted areas. I really don't know what to prove to someone anymore and how many people need to be evicted in order to really implement regional development policy through national means. You're the Ministry of Regional Development, we don't discuss here with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry, I don't know, traffic. We are discussing with the Ministry of Regional Development and it should finally be a policy of regional development to ensure a greater envelope for undeveloped areas, that our citizens under the Constitution have the same rights as the citizens of urban areas. Otherwise, this is just one follow-up to urbanisation, uneven development and eviction. The eviction of both mountainous and mountainous areas and the eviction of the assisted area, and the paradox of our system, how regional development is carried out in Croatia. Somebody explain to me, here you can explain to me as a minister, I don't mind that the islands in the 2019 budget got in the projection of 111 million kuna. In fact, they deserve it. But look what is the factor that defines regional diversity, or where a policy of equality should be defined. It's a development index. According to which the index of development of municipalities and cities from the island are all 7 and 8 groups of development indices, and these cities that are in the mountainous mountainous area from which they are the development index, 1, 4 groups most often, I don't know, Sinj 5 or 6. And those islands, i.e. cities and municipalities, units of local self-government and citizens who live better because they have a larger index of development, in our programme of your ministry, they've secured 111 million kn, and we've got 40 million kn here for mountaineering. Where is the logic of regional development in Croatia? Where's the logic of someone explaining it to me, it just doesn't make sense, and there's no reason? Because individual parliamentary representatives, who come from this area, issue this area when they come to Zagreb, briefly and clearly, some are not here or in the assembly, and they praise the media that they have provided, I do not know 10 million kn, 10 million kn. And not to mention the new law, to cover the mountainous mountainous area doubles. With 45 cities now, the new draft bill will be 85. The mountain card, the mountain card, I spoke for this speaker on the first draft where it wasn't, and I'm glad you respected it, but you threw out the legal person again. If we're going to see that the population stays in the mountainous mountainous area, based on construction, foot-and-mouth, lighting, roads, they won't. It will only be held if we can attract investors or provide support, because it is not the same to invest in Vrgorac in Delnice, Vrgorski, Legoglav, Orahovica as in Split or in the centre of Zagreb, but in Croatia it is the same. And then we wonder why the rural landscapes move out. They move out and move out even more because math and facts are devastating. You just don't live off your feet. And I'm going to look back at my exposure to another problem, that's the problem with preschool education. You have an agreement in Barcelona signed by the European Commission that 90% of children should go to kindergarten. There's an abnormal difference between urban and rural areas. In Zagreb, this quota has been met. Look at the rural areas, how many children go to kindergartens, if kindergartens are raised in institutions, our children in the rural area do not have the same conditions as children in urban areas. A new kindergarten will be built through the European Fund for the European Development Fund, as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, which it leads, although it should be under your portfolio, and say who will pay for the aunts in kindergarten. Aunts in kindergartens as far as the educator is concerned, I'm talking, not talking, now about the programs I've been doing in Vrgorec for 30 months. if it goes to the burden of the local self-government unit. Only according to projections should there be 5300 new educators. It's $95,000, the annual salary of a single raiser, that's £503 million. 503 million kn, already supported areas to finance. So from which they will finance it. Take at the Ministry of Finance cumulatively, what are the revenues of individual municipalities from the rural area and from the assisted area. Why are we lying to ourselves? Deliver the tables to see how many individual municipalities they have. I know, a neighboring community is building a new kindergarten. When the chief realized that he had to do now, hire 10 new aunts, he realized that he was making a noose around his neck and that's Croatia's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122646	The respected MP Panenic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122647	Thank you very much for having the Minister with his associates. I'd like to mention only one addition to my colleague Pranic. If we look, if that card were in the Law of Supported Areas, then we'd all have it, we'd have a ID ID on the document, if it turns out we just don't have it, we can't and we won't achieve it with these laws being passed. It's not the law, the text, we'll agree, okay, but when we look at the financial background, then we'll definitely say it's not enough. If we were to work on every 100 million kn, some law, which we would have in this 100 and some billion, how much the state budget is, then we would make hundreds, thousands of new laws, like, if there was a law for every 100 million that would be invested. And right at the very beginning of the law, what is encouraged? Economical, all the development, all the way, it's about this kind of artistic, productive form, but I'm afraid that neither this economic one that's listed, nor would there be enough 400 thousand kn in one municipality, and maybe we could help one economy, one family agricultural economy, put on good feet, and then we'd say, here at least we helped someone. If there are 304 units of local self-government, from assisted areas, which will be users, means 304 OPGs and we can say, we did something, we have real help, we can sign contracts with them, we can show that they've succeeded, but if we're saying that we're going to help everyone, no, it's certainly not going to be helpful with this law. It's questionable actually, when on this whole thing, how is it going to be held? 26. where it is said that the Republic will encourage detention, return of displaced residents, with 400 thousand kn, so they are for a much larger amount, which they want to achieve for themselves, their families, went out, and we will repay for 400 thousand kn. How much? Maybe he'll bring back 304 families. So let's say, we brought 304 families back here, so times 4 so here we got a lot more. But somewhere we have to figure out where we're going with that money, because this way, with 100 million kn, I think it's just Jesus who did it in his life, I don't think we're up to it, and we definitely need to give up on those thoughts. What bothers me especially in this law, this law, it's not a roof law, it's a law of 100 million kn, a law that should have defined, which means new funds will be employed, how it will define development, how it will help, and here somehow it seems to me like when a Bosnian pot is being made, it's just a helping pot, we put things in there, so let's say we have the law. We're going to put some EU funds on it, as my colleague Bulj said, anyway, but a little welcome, and then we're going to do a little bit of budget work, a little bit, but a little bit, a little bit, we get to it at the end when it's all over too little. So not enough, not too much, just too little. And then this whole law in its title helped just says that he's under what's enough to really help someone. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. I'm kind of getting this part right here in my eyes that refers to the support of the national smaller ones, and somehow I get the impression that certain areas of local self-government that are inhabited by members of national minorities have not been equally respected in development. We're showing it by this law. But I haven't read anywhere in an explanation that these local self-governments have been damaged. Who damaged them? Could it be the leaders who didn't lead? But this way, if we're saying that the Republic of Croatia has not systematically helped such areas in the past, then I think we've put on a big crime scene. I hope that by the time you vote, you'll give an explanation of who's damaged, why it's damaged, who's guilty, why we now have to make up for that part. My colleague Bulj will be finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122648	And last on behalf of the Club of Representatives will speak the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122649	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, in our time of arrival, less and less in our hearths, in my Dalmatian Zagora, Lici, Ravni Kotari, Skradinska zazadja, Skradin, Sibenik rear, Drniš, Knin, in Slavonia your ministers will be less and less and less Christmas Eve. There's more and more of the old population. It's not the child's pay at the maternity homes, it's the bus station, the parents' crying, the grandfathers' escorts, their grandkids' grandkids and they're going to get their whole families back. And this is a strategic national issue two-thirds of Croatia's colleagues and colleagues are empty. I don't know if you see it from Zagreb, I don't know when you're surrounded by mayors in Split, elsewhere, do you see it? What do your party colleagues tell you? But the fact is that our villages, our cities, our municipalities became villages of ghosts, villages, cities of ghosts, there's no one around. I said it would be good for you to withdraw this law. First of all, this is not the time to talk about this law that is unprepared, which is PR-ovski and which promotes you and you do not have good results in your ministry, we are lastly at the bottom of the EU, Malta has overtaken us after withdrawing funds from the EU. I expected from you and from fellow parliamentary representatives who came from these areas to point out to you, that the lights in Parliament or in the government or on an advent in Zagreb, so as not to make you look at reality. And the reality is that national security is at risk, that territory isn't enough to have a state. A territory without people is not a state. I've been in Munich recently, more of our people out there in Munich, 40 grand more now in Munich for the last four years, that's what he's telling you, only in Munich is he talking. Minister, these two laws are unprepared, you have no measure to help the areas we're talking about. It increases the range of mountainous mountainous areas by more than double, 85 will be, double. Praise some parliamentary representatives that you have increased by 10 million in the budget of funds for these areas, 85 by 45, will grow. So they're going to get less mountainous mountain areas, more numbers and voting machines are needed but this isn't good. You're talking about the mountain card, that she needs but the fact that she's with you... a much more needed HDZ party card or coalition partners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, counterpart Pranic stressed, a lot of nogostop, a lot of asphalting. There are some municipalities to see exactly election cycles paved. They need jobs, not this money to local self-government, we have more municipalities and cities and counties than America, together the United States and China. This is not a solution, we do not have the possibility of kindergarten and this is the obligation Croatia has. We don't have the opportunity because it's not just a kindergarten, a kindergarten is a educational institution. 17X fewer children have the opportunity to reach higher education if they do not have an organised kindergarten. No more sheep, no more shepherds or shepherds, according to a HDZ colleague who makes fun of them, no more. Why isn't he here? Because it is enough for the government to take pictures in Split, Osijek, Sisak, and that is not enough Minister to withdraw this law that has no measure to be addressed. It's not funny, give me one measure that gave you the opportunity to develop any area in the Republic of Dalmatia, from the Mountain Kotar, any part of it. It's not funny, you think it's funny, but it's not funny to the people in that area. I'm saying it as a parliamentary representative, I have this obligation to speak as a elected parliamentary representative, it's my duty and it can't be funny to you, and these laws, freely, I don't know, your piar, you can call 1,000 media Go ahead, get them back to you, get them back wherever you want, and you'll have an amendment in the morning. [[Intruder: Thank you]] You'll have an amendment, I don't know if you'll be able to call the government. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122650	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives of the HDZ on behalf of which time will be shared by respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev and respected representative Lončar. First respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122651	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law will support the HDZ Club. Each Croatian government has so far announced a reduction in administration and an increase in efficiency. But that's what it's been all about until now, only in theory. A number of the Agency were founded, some of which were fewer than 10 employees, some of which had over 700 employees, some of the 70 employees had directors, 7 assistant directors, 13 department heads, 37 department heads, which means, of 70 employees, even 59 executive employees, not to say that they were salaries, bonuses and different from the Agency to the Agency, and only this government made a decision on 2 August which accepts the proposal to reduce the number of agencies, funds, institutions, foundations, foundations, companies and other legal persons with public authority. In fact, the Agency for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia has taken certain actions in implementing the programmes and activities precisely for the needs of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds at their request. Administrative oversight of the Agency's work has been carried out by the Ministry and it is perfectly logical and normal for the Agency to be given to the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds by its abolition and all its employees, as well as its obligations and rights. This proposal for a Law as well as amending the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Ministry and other Central Authorities of the State Administration shall regulate the termination of the Agency’s work and the taking over of business in the work of the Ministry. This rationalises the system, establishes full compliance with the needs of modern regional policy, as well as the achievement of effective coordination of regional coordinators. Of course, all the staff of the Agency will be taken over and it is necessary to harmonise the Sub-legislative acts in the section which prescribes the powers and obligations of the Agency. I would also point out, given that criticism was heard yesterday when we talked about amendments to the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration, that the amount foreseen by the state budget for staff expenditure was increased in the following year. It should be said that in 2019, for staff expenditures affecting the surplus or shortfall of income will amount to slightly more than 24 billion kuna and that this is less than it was for the implementation of the 2017 budget when 26 billion and 700 million kuna were spent. The total amount for employees wants to be higher in the part relating to staff expenditure, financed by the European Funds and for persons working exclusively on European projects. Furthermore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Mountain Mountain Areas will also support the HDZ Club. What I would like to talk more about today is the differences that we have in relation to first reading, and we should commend everything that has been done in relation to that proposal we had on our first reading benches. Meanwhile, as agreed, the EU's Mother Committee on Regional Development and Funds also organised a thematic session. All that is said at this thematic session is now in this final proposal of the Law. So, colleagues who say there are no measures, we have to say number one, that exactly the measures that have been taken and the bill of the first reading has been completed and that the measures and what needs to be done to contribute to the development of the mountainous mountainous area, are thus precisely standing. So we need to work on improving the municipal and social infrastructure in mountainous mountainous areas, removing the consequences of difficult climate conditions, preparing project and technical documentation for local development projects. Furthermore, the preparation of infrastructure as a prerequisite for investment and economic recovery, the promotion of competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship through support for activities of importance for economic development, as well as the subsidisation of accommodation for persons of deficiting interest and persons who can contribute to improving the quality of life in mountainous mountainous areas. Furthermore, the activities to be supported by the Republic of Croatia are mainly relevant for the development of this area. It is from wood processing industry, production, appropriate industrial production of the final stage of processing, production of finished industrial products, livestock, production and processing of products marked Croatian mountain product, production of special souvenirs, etc., not to list, to eco tourism, cultural tourism, health tourism, traditional construction, traditional crafts, art workshops, humanitarian, humanitarian activities, civil society organisations, etc. The news is, it's also being introduced so-called. The mountain card, precisely this will be a means of accessing the system of rights, privileges and measures of inhabitants of the mountainous mountainous area, from the right to privileged public transport within the county line traffic to the privileged use of raw materials and natural resources of local importance. It is also news that the Ministry submits a report to the government on the effects of the implementation of the mountainous mountainous area development programme until 30 April of the current year for the previous year. When it comes to the programme, it should be said that it should contain all measures and projects, both demographic and economic, fiscal, social, administrative capacity strengthening measures, and integrated territorial investments, and in the design of the programme, all units of local self-government that have mountainous mountain areas status, as well as units of regional self-government in which these units are located. It means municipalities, cities and counties. The central authorities of the state administration shall also, each, for their administrative area, and their responsibilities, no later than 60 days after the adoption of the State budget, adopt individual annual plans provided for in the programme. I stress that this law of the Republic of Croatia, the unit area of regional self-government, means the county and units of local self-government, which means municipalities and cities, and their bodies have a duty to provide assumptions for strengthening competitiveness and achieving their own development potential in the mountainous mountainous area. Detention, return of displaced and fostering the settlement of residents of the area. This law also provides for a fairer establishment of the scope of the area. Now with earlier geomorphological criteria, meaning height and slope, so far just looking at height and slope, I would say, since we hear criticism, that we will not know what areas it will be, if the height and slope of the terrain so far was that as a scale and now and further remain the criteria along the climate, means the amount of rainfall but also demographic infrastructure conditions of life, so surely this is far more just criteria than those that have been so far. A lot of criticism also concerns the amount of funding foreseen for the implementation of the programmes and projects of this law, however, it clearly states that these are funds within the competent ministry, but that the funds will also be within the budgetary divisions of other central authorities. So from the Ministry of Transport, Demography, to Croatian Waters, Roads, Forests etc. So it's as if we're forgetting that another package of tax reform, only in this unit of local self-government, has received nearly 2 billion kn. Of course, the amount of funds was also received by less developed municipalities and cities that fall under the mountainous mountainous. Furthermore, from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, we have support from the rural development programme, which leads to the strengthening of competitiveness, both agriculture and forestry and the processing industry, which also provides funding for projects in these areas. We can see that as living working conditions have improved in the workplace, in order to improve living conditions in the rural area, support has also taken place in the direction of local self-government, thus financing the construction and equipment of 57 kindergartens, 30 fire departments and so on. Here, today we are getting re-information to increase the resources available to co-finance projects in the kindergarten sector under Operation 741. This amendment increased the total amount of public support available from a billion kn to a total of a billion and 362 million. And the purpose is to increase the available funds in the competition for projects of the kindergarten sector from 500 million to 862 million kn. I believe that it is about the construction of kindergartens in villages below the 5,000th century that certain municipalities and towns from the mountainous mountainous area are also covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122652	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that IDS, PGS and LRI, and I'm sorry, I forgot that you've shared the time, uh, so that fellow Loncar has the rest of the time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122653	Thank you, Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. This final law on assisted areas, as a policy of regulatory development, regulates the management of the development of the area, which should be both a prerequisite and their economic development in line with the strengthening of competitiveness. Units of regional and local self-government should provide assumptions all due to development potentials in assisted areas through a series of measures to link local regional needs, including cohesion policy, a balanced and sustainable development of local self-government units, with an emphasis on co-operation from the investment funds programme, European and infrastructure investments and state aid. The current regulatory development of the agency operating in the area of the current counties should, in cooperation with the local self-government unit, participate in the preparation and implementation of capacity-building measures and new projects, in order to create effective use of funds for units of local administrations. The developmentists themselves in the assisted areas are obliged to take special care of social, economic, demographic, housing and other measures, which bring development papers, new economic policies and new economic movements with the aim of moving municipalities and cities to return to the population and their areas. Why is this all important to run and change exclusively, because of the current state which is not good and which should certainly be complemented or changed. In order to change all of this as soon as possible, it is necessary to do the following, connect local, regional development needs with measures and programmes and cohesion policy objectives, other support in assisted areas to increase and optimal use of their own development potential, third appropriate measures for the balanced sustainable development of local regional, regional self-government units in assisted areas, 4 promotion of integrated territorial investment programmes supported areas, 5 retention, return and promotion of population settlement into assisted areas, 6 professional financial assistance for the preparation of development projects in assisted areas, for which implementation is planned to use funds from European structural investments, funds and other sources. Finally, one of my applications to the Minister, when it comes to the Regional Development Act, and it concerns indexation, I am for all those who need help and, yes, but in part of the municipalities and cities where indexation has stopped further development in a small extent, please try to analyze the new state of affairs how to obtain.../incomprehensible/... The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122654	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, the Honorable Representative of Tulio Demetlika will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122655	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before I refer to the final proposal of this law, I would like to say a few very important facts about the status of the mountain-mounted area and the problems these areas are dealing with. The mountain-mounted areas usually include parts of the Republic of Croatia which are due to their geographical location or geomorphological and climate characteristics in the nature of the area with difficult living conditions. That often led the population to seek a better life in others for a more favorable environment. It should also be recalled that in these units local self-government, average wages are mostly less than the national average. The Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas 2002 created for many such municipalities and cities an opportunity to increase the share in income tax schedule, and a short period of time and income tax opportunity to at least partially catch a step of development with other local self-government units that had a better geomorphological position than they had done and did. However, although many areas have significantly improved their municipal infrastructure and social standards, all the financial resources that these cities and municipalities have received have not been sufficient to repair their demographic image and keep the population in their territory. And instead of the support that most municipalities and cities with mountain-mounted status have achieved, they have received high development indices and thus hindering further development, as in a large number of competitions which are being investigated by the ministries, the index is listed as limiting or even including a factor in project candidateing. The country plans to provide 40 million kuna for mountain-mountain support programmes in the next three years. And only the costs of winter service in the area of Gorski Kotar last winter exceeded that amount. This cannot possibly be the means to change anything for the better and it is clear that they represent only cosmetic surgery. To remind 45 cities and municipalities under the 2002 law, they totalled 120 million kunas each year, and now the loss is trying to make up for a fourfold lower amount. In addition, this law will cover 85 cities and municipalities that will share 40 million kuna, which is on average about 470,000 kuna. And now the question is, how are we going to contribute to the development of these parts? As I said, even when the first reading was debated, I'm not quite sure that this law will bring about changes for the better. It is primarily because such a bill is too general, undefined and has no concrete measure and it is already visible that it will be aware of the sublegal acts adopted by the Government or the RES, which will again prevent long-term development planning. Today, in mid-December, when most units of local self-government adopted or preceded the adoption of the budget for the following year, these regions do not know what will benefit from the law after it enters into force. Unfortunately, this isn't the first time, this is five years ago since those units of local self-government until the last day of the meeting have been terrified of their incomes. The aim of this law is to contribute to the development of mountainous and mountainous areas, but I will notice that in any settlement of the legal text that has experienced as many as 7 amendments and additions each meant smaller first and abolishing financial resources even though all these changes were the aim of economic and all kinds of development. If the basic text of the current law with significantly greater advantages failed to achieve the objectives that this final proposal contains, it is difficult to believe that after the adoption of this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, life in these parts has a chance for development. It is interesting that Article 7(9) provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, on a proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development, decide on the coverage and classification of units of local self-government that acquire the status of mountain-mounted areas. Isn't it the least unusual to say that the law is passed without knowing who it will apply to? In the previous law of the municipalities and cities that had that status were taxed, and this law should also include a list of those cities and municipalities to which the law would apply. I must also refer to article 16 of this final proposal, which provides that the programme for the development of mountainous and mountainous areas of the law will be developed for a period of 4 years. Although the first Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area came into force back in 2002 and also defined the development of a mountain-mounted development programme, it was never adopted. On behalf of the club, I must say, we are deeply hoping that after this law, the program will finally be passed after 16 years. I want to believe that we are not followed by an old well-known Croatian story, that the law is passed, and then that a concrete programme without which nothing is possible to continue waiting. Our club has repeatedly stressed that it has no effect or sense to pass a law that is not clear, unequivocal and enforceable, but I don't know why it keeps going. In addition, the law should oblige state-owned companies such as Croatian Waters, HEP and Croatian Forests to also define measures to support these areas in a way that has been done by Croatian roads. Today, we have a case that these companies have a maternal attitude towards areas that have very high incomes and benefits, and these regions do not put anything but acquired roads and difficult living conditions. To conclude from this law we expected a lot more and I hope that time won't show that we won too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122656	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Milorad Batinic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122657	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, associates. Namely, the first Law amending the Law on Regional Development, which is purely one administrative procedure, will be supported and these two laws of mountainous mountainous and assisted areas will be united and I will discuss both. In fact, I would return to the 2002 period, or functionally, when it began to be implemented in 2003, why it was adopted. At that time, certain problems have been identified which are equally current today but what I think is not acceptable to us at the HNS Club, which no ministry, no government until then, have done a more quality analysis of the effects of the existing law that has been in place so far. We'll pass this law. Namely, why, by this former law mountainous mountainous areas, assisted areas, there were also citizens and local self-governments who had certain benefits and also certain businessmen who had certain benefits in terms of tax duties. The question arises to how much and how these measures, which were prescribed by the previous law, were affected, or the effects of that law. I believe that if we had one such analysis and it was pictured here in the House so that we could understand and understand and adopt this law and the methodological way in which it was adopted. It was in the first reading that the effects of the implementation of the law from 2002 to the conclusion of today’s date did not give the desired effects, but rather the opposite. We haven't even solved the communal infrastructure, we haven't solved new jobs, we haven't solved demographic problems. To some extent, I believe that individual units have also been improved, but in general, I do not think that the effects are satisfactory and that I must expect by passing such a law and implementing such a law. In fact, we're missing a strategic approach at the HNS. We believe that this law is viewed as one of the interphase of something that will need to be preceded by a high-quality strategic law which will not slave to administrative methods but precisely which will focus more on what should be done more than two-thirds of its area to improve life in these areas, facilitate the lives of citizens, prevent, or stop negative demographic trends, and stimulate the development of the economy and stay and, preferably, the settlement of these areas. In fact, when you look at the geographic map that the areas are concerned then we see that exactly these negative trends that both the previous and this new law want in some way to stop don't date back from the 1990s. It means '50s, '60s, '70s. In these areas we are talking about now, the same negative trends have been happening. So I can't blame any of the current government for that, but as far as the problem is concerned, I think even though it was a good intention that we couldn't get these expected results. What is life in the mountainous mountainous area? The U was mentioned a lot of snow, so snow falls in the continent, except the mountainous mountain may have 20, 30% more looking and perhaps more frequent falling. My colleagues and colleagues, last year, a fiscal balancing law was adopted, where funds were allocated to all units of local self-government and cities and municipalities below average below the national budget reference value. All are open to the possibility of running for European money, for certain programmes based on operational programmes defined long before this government, the previous governments are still in the interest of the pre-accession negotiations provided by the provisions of certain restrictions and a certain framework. I agree that building a public lighting leg will not solve the problem, but it is necessary. Where there isn't. Key road, water current, availability to public institutions from preschool, school, health care. Is it necessary to help, I don't know, in the Gorski kotar where the snow is 30% higher, give only those 30% because let's not do injustice by trying to correct the injustice elsewhere? The fact is that by looking at the methodological of this law, we cannot accept and what can be concluded is that the debate of all of us here in the Parliament is more focused on the measures and programmes that we propose through the debate on the law what should be done by the ministry. In view of Article 7(3) for the determination of coverage, it will be a multi-critical method, a geomorphological, climate, demographic, infrastructure criterion. There's nothing to blame. When it's prescribed, so there's indexation, there's a point, we have to draw from somewhere under the line above which you've helped the area, under which you're not. Measures, that's what we all expect to write in this law, but I'm asking myself a question at the HNS, is it for sure right now that the Government knows, or do you ministers and your team, what measures could be prescribed in principle besides those you have prescribed here? Demographic, economic, fiscal, social, administrative capacity building measures, etc. Who can object to that? I don't think anybody did. Article 20 in the state budget doesn't worry me how much money is because it's not a problem at all, I don't see it, it's 30, 40, 150 million, 300 billion, I ask for what? I ask for what, for what measures are these projects, what are these programs that are going to fall from demographic measures, from lagging behind in the development that will give certain effects positive? I believe that we are thinking the same thing, not money, not money should be a bit of a problem, but obviously the problem that I am reading from these measures that you have listed here and I would like to absorb in particular the preparation of project and technical documentation, the promotion of competitiveness of entrepreneurship growth and also administrative support which I believe is crucial and what is the biggest lack and biggest problem in these areas, which many local self-governments each have a strategic development plan for themselves but obviously are not detected problems, the question is whether a quality SWOT analysis is made, a SWOT analysis at the level of the county for these assisted areas that are covered, that local self-government knows what to do. With this, I do not want to offend or underestimate local leaders, but it is obvious that it is precisely because, obviously, at the local level, it has not been sufficiently approachd to the extent that the invested money, invested, not feasibility, because there is no feasibility in it, but if we have made a kindergarten, it is necessary, of course, that when it is not supported, the area that is not the head of local self-government will see whether it is profitable and to what extent, not that it can earn, it is not the goal of earning, but whether it is worth doing a kindergarten for ten children where the cold drive is several times more expensive than what the cost of child's stay is, or perhaps co-financed depending on the distance of the children's journey, the transportation of children in a nearby kindergarten, or in agreement with more local environments, let us invest together, make it and encourage even a private investor, provide him with logistics, and even in the goal of ensuring that the total infrastructure is made. Namely why, it is a question of the sustainability of these projects that are running, which your ministry will valorize because it has been said, here is a colleague Pranic telling the truth, there they can definitely agree with it because it is Croatian truth in these areas. Make kindergarten, I say it's cheapest to make infrastructure, its maintenance costs, its local budget, the question of who can handle it. It's unsustainable and we have to make it. In these measures of the Minister, because what I'm saying, which we all say more or less, is those measures and programs, and that's why I say there's no element that we don't support that law, but also what I said on the board and in the first reading, we're missing one quality analysis of the situation for you, too, because without that one quality analysis, I'm afraid that the programs that you're going to bring, I don't know how much, one thing has been distributed by the items of funds from these, those funds that the fund is going to be channelled from, but it doesn't have to be bothered with, if it's going to go out of the fund, it's going to go from that fund, but the exact opposite. The program of measures you're bringing in in 4 years, okay, I'd be more pleased that it's minimum to 10, if it's minimum for 4 years to measure the effects of the implementation of that, I'm afraid we'll all be disappointed together, I'm afraid, because what's the problem with detecting in these areas is that it can't be solved for 4 years because the problem has arisen for decades. For decades. Furthermore, the fact is that whatever law we pass, billions of resources, we are simply not going to be able to solve some of the negative trends. We won't be able to solve it. Why? In particular, the development of the economy, absolutely. No one has invested at local level anymore and denied their citizens and other projects and social purposes and municipal ones, but the north of Croatia by investing in municipal infrastructure, in, excuse me, in order to boost economic infrastructure. He's just coming back to us now. It's been over 10 years. New jobs, unemployment rate 3%, we are, our industry is at that stage looking for labour imports. Yeah, one of our companies went out to work, but they didn't move out. With 75% of wages in northern Croatia 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, but people are not leaving. You have one middle. It's not mountain-mounted, it's second. And what's going on? In that hill-mountan municipality or the city's entrepreneur registered a company under the former law, you know where the radio factory was? In that environment that's not mountain-mounted. What did we get with that? Nothing. You'd have a lot more to say, an example. What I like, and I see it's been transposed from the Island Act, and I commended the Island Act in my first reading, and I suggested that the Law on Mountain and Mountain and Supported Areas be made, according to the model of the Island Act. There are concrete measures that are prescribed, and this is the Law on Islands, and we see this in particular here in the Assembly when we discuss the report on the implementation of the Law on Islands, when we see effects, we see positive trends and results. Of course, we will all agree that islands primarily as an economic activity is tourism, although as a seasonal, seasonal branch, but yields excellent results and that is one of the reasons. On the continent, tourism is, in practice, not even a t of tourism compared to those potentials it is. You stated here, too, that it is necessary to determine the potential in these areas. It's also a failure, not yours, it's a failure of the previous law, the previous governments, which they didn't have a far more high-quality approach. There are potentials, yes. Mountain boiler – forest, Banovina – forest, Vrgorac – strawberries. So there's potential. Now, it's up to you, completely in the government, to find out how, if there is, I don't really understand myself too much in strawberries, colleague Pranic, but you're going to suggest. What does a hectare of strawberries mean? Productionable? I know what it means to live off the woods, how many minimum acres of forest you have to have. The threshold of rentability is minimum 150 hectares. Plus that you still have at home, you make food for your own needs, like OPGs, say, or something like that. And I don't know about strawberries. But that's why the Ministry of Agriculture is there, so the synergy of the entire government should be that in some way in these programmes regardless of whose jurisdiction, it is not good for the programme to be conceived only from one resistor because it will not result. Slavonia. The largest number of municipalities is from Slavonia assisted areas. It used to be a maximum of 10 acres. He was everywhere. In the former state. What can you do today at 10 acres? You can't live on it, nothing. So it's no wonder people moved out and moved out of Slavonia today. You need a minimum, I don't know, 100, 200 acres, 300 acres, technology has done its job. The less human labor, the law of large numbers, simply, those are the parameters that matter. And which we must respect and which in some ways are also the reason why there is no more distraction, plow, and horse. We need to be aware of that. And you don't have to be surprised that people are leaving because they have nothing to do. Likewise, in the former state, which is also the consequence, we are going from the village to create a proletariat. Well, at that time, completely understandable. It was grouped, concentrated in certain settlements. It was built by a state of factories that were not sustainable economically. And of course, what happened in conversion and privatisation, except for those and the negative consequences that were, whether it was crime, let someone else deal with it, simply according to the principles of the market economy, it's unsustainable. It's closing. And it couldn't be done because the state can't build, substitute, as it used to, to build a new factory, the market economy isn't going. But we could and we should and the state is expected to in some way substitute it or help under this law. Monitoring and reporting, absolutely yes. And to conclude, the HNS club, when you have in percent, when it exceeds more pluses than negatives, which in principle are not negative, but could have been more content, better, more, not by your guilt than by the guilt of predecessors who did not leave complete analysis based on which one more content, more quality, more precise law could be made, we will support that law. Likewise, I believe that the programs that you will propose in the government is what colleagues and colleagues have said, these programs must be an integrated approach, an integrated way. Not only from one resort, but from a complete, complete state and local and regional state, and I believe a negative trend will stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122658	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP, time will be shared by respected representatives Mateljan Jovanovic, the first respected representative of Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a set of laws relating to regional development. In addition to the island law, which is the most operational, most lifelike, of these laws already passed, we have before us legal proposals on the second reading of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, the Law on assisted areas, amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act. The legal framework proposed by the government, and adopted by the assembly, nothing, unfortunately, is dramaticly new, but unfortunately, nor better, has it happened for the development of mountainous mountainous areas, neither aided areas nor regional development in general. One constant left is the Island Act, a good law, where islands actually still have the most benefits, are the highest quality, supported by the state budget. We of course from the SDP Club didn't... on the legal framework that the islands have, on the contrary, we ultimately voted in favour of this legislative proposal, but what we were hoping for, what we wanted, is that both mountainous and assisted areas have the same treatment, i.e. Therefore, measures and programmes are proposed in an equally concrete way and financial resources are provided for them and the implementation of this law is monitored. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hoped it would be treated in the same way as the Island Law, however, unfortunately that is not the case. Since the beginning of this year by implementing the new Law on the financing of the local self-government unit, we can actually say that there is no policy of regional development in Croatia, then, that there is no policy of regional development which would make a difference in tax gains for the budget of the unit of local self-government in view of their development. The development index, the new development index, which replaced the previous hate index of development, exists equally fast. For this first development index, the SDP government was blamed, for this second development index, the new government is blamed, although both have been brought by HDZ governments. Therefore, this famous development index, which, whatever the case, should be the key to the first definition of assisted areas, and then for concrete financial tools to assist these areas, simply from the inclusion of this law since the beginning of this year ceases to be the criterion for the allocation of budgetary resources from the budget, i.e., assistance from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. With this law of financing the unit of local self-government, it binds exclusively to income from one tax, which is income tax. Regardless of the development index, that share for all units of local self-government is 60%. It is therefore somewhat manipulative by the Ministry of Finance above all, but also the Ministry of Regional Development, when it communicates in public with the public and with the unit of local self-government, that the entire income tax has been shifted to municipalities of cities, which is, of course, not true, because, until the adoption of that law, mountainous areas, i.e., assisted areas had a share of income tax of 88%, it is now 28% reduced, and these 60% are divided into... % for municipalities and cities, 17 % for counties, 6% for decentralised functions and 17 % for fiscal balance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The finance ministry, he likes to boast that the new Law on the financing of the local self-government unit in the settlement section has solved that part of the problem, it has dealt with it in the short term, but certainly not in the long term. The tendency is and this shows also these semi-reforms on the tax that this government has brought, that labour tax is becoming less taxed, that income tax will be getting smaller and thus the budget of local self-government units will, of course, be increasingly smaller. The Law on mountainous mountainous areas and the Law on assisted areas apply to them as much as the appropriations in the budget are provided for them. It is for the Law on mountain mountainous areas, i.e. for mountainous mountainous areas 40 million kn, for assisted areas 80 million kn. So for 2/3 of Croatia, for most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, 145 billion kn, this total ministry for these areas is guaranteed 120 million kn. Unfortunately, these laws can't be better, they might be the best they can be right now, why? For this reason, the government has not done what is most important, and this has not implemented the structural reform of local self-government, i.e. it has not started rounding up local self-government units, strengthening their fiscal and other capacities. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia is related to the conclusion of the government in August of this year, which adopted the proposal to reduce agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority. The reason why the government has adopted such a conclusion is likely not to see another reason why this would be, rather, a reduction, i.e. rationalisation in order to increase the effectiveness of the public administration body, i.e. in general. And, of course, no one, politically rational, no one politically well-intentioned, can be against reducing the capacity of an institution at the same time, while at the same time increasing their effectiveness, or their accessibility. But from this bill, at least I don't see it, there are no details in which the agency, or their employees, will be incorporated in the Ministry, no tools are visible that would achieve the goal, which the promoter himself has set, which is the rationalisation of the system and its greater efficiency. And under greater efficiency, I certainly consider strengthening the capacities where they are most needed, and these are in the section of preparing the implementation and implementation of the EU project. However, more than these shortcomings, I am concerned about the intensity that it has, therefore, this proposal to amend and supplement the Regional Development Act, if what it had before it, namely, this and the past changes are given much more power, i.e. the first term of regional co-ordinator is introduced at all, then much greater powers are given to this regional coordinator. These are actually regional county development agencies that were first public institutions, then they became stock companies and now, by the basis of this law, they become public institutions again. So much for the consistency of this policy in terms of strengthening the capacity of the county. We were warning then, and not only are we out of the opposition, in fact, such a proposal for strengthening, above all, the county institutions will not lead to a more effective system for preparing the withdrawal and implementation of EU funds, but it will unfortunately lead to non-professionalisation, politicisation and will actually lead to that term, which is professionally called in Croatia. It would therefore be good to check the effectiveness of regional coordinators in a way that actually sees how many projects the units of local self-government, so municipalities and cities have spent on their own capacities, which are, what is the number of projects that they have implemented through outsources or private consulting houses, and what is the number of projects and the amount of funds withdrawn, which they have done through regional coordinators, and in fact, you would get a picture of which I am saying that regional coordinators are not sufficiently encapsulated for that role given to them by this law. Moreover, in the end, I give my colleague Jovanovic space, which also bothers me, i.e. what makes me unsatisfactory, and what makes me pessimistic is that the announcements that went from the government, i.e. in the last few days in the media where the Ministry of Administration is again talking about some strange reform of the self-government site where everything is also going to strengthen the capacity of the county, to reduce it to a certain qualification of local and regional units, units of local self-government, municipalities and cities where they have 576 units of local self-government by 400 criteria is divided into large, small and watchful with, depressed, depressed municipalities and cities. The first time I read it, I thought of depressed or depressed cities and municipalities. So this time the reform is a bad way, this way of forming new, strong sopranos is not good, and instead of people and citizens of Croatia are going to perceive it, so far perceived as the state of the sheriff, from now on it will be perceived as a country of the sopranos. Unfortunately, therefore, I think that the whole set of these regional development laws is not at the level that would really win a win in space that is greater than two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia and that would literally make that space competitive and save what is being saved. Because some things are irretrievable... , some parts of Croatia are irrevocably empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law should have allowed the part that still lives to continue to live. I'm afraid such legal proposals will not happen, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122660	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122661	Thank you, Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to what my colleague Matteljan said, I can say that when it comes to this package of laws, what is especially about the mountainous mountainous area law is that it is non-transparent, discriminatory and unambitious. Why this grade? First, it's non-transparent, because the coverage is determined by the government and today we still don't know which units of local self-government are entering the mountainous mountainous area. This opens the space to political manipulations, which is certainly not good for one law that we bring to the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, he's discriminatory. Why is it discriminatory? Because it leaves out a number of settlements because there will be only 85 units of local self-government that I said we don't even know who they are but at the same time there are at least twice as many units of local self-government that have mountainous areas in their composition. For example, Krapina-Zagorje County has 32 local units and has none in its composition in the mountainous areas. Will they get into the mountainous mountainous area of genuine doubt. Will this status be obtained, for example, by Jastrebarsko, who has a settlement on Plesevica at a altitude of over 500 metres? He won't. This means that a good part of the population that really lives in the mountainous mountainous area but not according to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be cut off by the benefits that will come from the Law on the Mountainous Mountains and will, of course, create a clear and dissension among citizens because some will be extremely cut off from others just because their village, for example, on a mountainous hillside and a unit of local self-government, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has determined to belong to the mountainous mountainous area. And the neighbouring village is because for that second municipality or city to which the government belongs, it is determined to be in the mountainous mountainous area. This really cannot be allowed and I do not believe that citizens can be discriminated in this way because there is no difference in the altitude of the difficult climate conditions, the state of infrastructure and anything else that states that the conditions for determining the mountainous mountainous area are not available. Third, this law is unambitious, without concrete measures, without a plan to keep the population in the hills. We received only one empty recycled framework of the old law and the fact that the absurd after almost eight months of procedure, counselling, thematic sessions, second parliamentary reading, has been alerted since the first reading and nothing has changed but empty stories. Not ambitious enough is the amount of 40 million kuna that if we deploy to the entire population that we estimate should be covered we come up with the figure that I have said in the opening line to Ms. Kuna 100 kuna per capita. So 100 kuna is what a country that allegedly wants to keep people in these areas gives as an incentive. Of these 100 kunas, they should build and maintain infrastructure, encourage agriculture and the economy, finance demographic measures. This shows how much this government really cares about these areas. We need a completely new approach to mountainous mountainous areas, a strategy to develop agriculture and tourism in these areas because what we have ahead of us will lead, without any dilemma, further eviction, and possibly through some petty political motivated concessions, to make people feel deceived. So we don't even know how to apply the good experience that we have through the Island Law, let's have those solutions from the Island Law, we could apply this Law, and we don't even know how to read the laws and good practices, for example. Slovenia or Austria who solved this problem a long time ago. Thus, this whole legislative package shows that the implementation of the government's reform of Mr Plenkovic, his ministers, was based on the first letters of those two words, on the pyr. So, the prime minister and ministers sell to citizens fog by bringing down a number of laws to the list of beautiful desires, without concrete tools, how to implement these laws in everyday life and ensure a greater quality of life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in all parts of our country. When a young and educated man who, for example, He lives in the Gorski Kotar and thinks about leaving the Republic of Croatia, he says, "Come on, let's get some new Law in the Parliament, let me read it, I might find at least some reason to stay in the Gorski Kotar after all." After reading it, he will not stay, but will begin packing more quickly and seek happiness elsewhere. As I have already said today, given that we are in the Pre-Blessed Days, this Law can indeed be compared to a gift wrapped in colorful paper and a colorful strip, but when the inhabitants of Gorski Kotar consider and this colorful paper, they will see that they are double-crossed, that the box is empty and that there is nothing in it. The concept of the Law of both mountainous mountainous and assisted areas is based on the programme of development and sublegal acts to be adopted, and many concrete measures remain key for the development of mountainous mountainous areas and in Article. 12. The Law on mountainous mountainous areas and Law 14. on assisted areas where we believe that some of the measures should be clearly and without any doubt, such as covering the costs of the winter service and the rehabilitation of roads caused by climate conditions, the recovery of impact pits. In Gorski Kotar, a concrete, free road toll towards Zagreb and Rijeka, as an incentive for young families to stay living in the area of Gorski Kotar, subsidising public transport as a whole. In particular, we believe that it was necessary to highlight the amendment of the rules relating to the separation of land from the forest economic base in the part of the regulation or exemption of payment of the amount of compensation in the settlement of property legal relations in the Ministry of State Property, for local units with mountainous mountainous area status. Also ensuring payment of fair municipal fee for capital national corridors and facilities in the mountainous mountainous area, pipelines, pipelines, power lines, accumulation lakes. We talk a lot about the need for demographic renewal, so we believe that there must be a clear obligation to co-finance directorial costs and salaries of teachers in primary schools in the mountainous mountainous area, including primary schools with less than 5 pupils. Of course, without insurance and effective primary health care in mountainous mountainous areas, we can hardly talk about the rest or return of the family to Gorski Kotar. The category includes insurance for the availability of mangers and kindergartens in mountain mountainous areas. It is also very important to provide a variety of reliefs for entrepreneurs in the mountainous mountainous area such as the reduced rate of pay for profit taxes. Something has been accepted since the first reading, we welcome it, at least one small detail, but significant for all residents of the mountainous Kotar and mountainous mountainous areas, it is the return of the Gorica card to the law, where we believe that the Gorska card, except those living in the mountainous mountainous area, should be all who work for employers whose headquarters, especially when it comes to deficiting interests, is located in the mountainous mountainous area because it can seek one moment and return to the mountainous mountainous area. However, if we sum up everything we have said, this Law, unfortunately, will not be the way out of the crisis and lagging behind mountainous areas. It remains hoped that the implementing acts will be more concrete, so I call on the minister to accept our numerous remarks, certainly in the drafting of these programme measures, the consultants and the mayors of the Primorian Mountain County and the mayors who come from the Gorski Kotar, in order to make these measures more concrete and effective, such as: Primorje Goranska County has secured 3 million kunas for next year as a Fund for Gorski Kotar, which will encourage entrepreneurship programmes and social infrastructure of 9 mountain towns and the municipalities of Primorje Goranska County and this is a way to establish the criteria through talks with the mayors and mayors who live and work in Gorski Kotar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122662	Thank you. The next club of representatives, that of the SDSS, and on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122663	Dear vice-president of HS, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. My debate, although three points are united, will primarily focus on the Law on assisted areas. It's a law we've long waited for in the term of this government, it's promised in the government's programme itself, it was scheduled in the first year, but here, the second year has passed, and the law is now before us. While we were waiting for this Law, some things in the areas, in the assisted areas, have, unfortunately, deteriorated, primarily the demographic situation and the situation in some areas to this extent worsened over the past period that we will have to make huge efforts to fix it, if possible at all. There are great expectations of this law. There are high expectations, this showed the debate in the first reading and in the second reading, this showed the debate in the debates before the parliamentary committees. Whether these expectations will be fulfilled if we look at the content of the law itself, then he discourages that it will be fulfilled. Because the content of the law actually suggests that we will have to implement ourselves in order to be able to assess whether the law will be successful, whether these expectations will be met. I am aware that in this assembly exactly, in this assembly I supported and commended some of the laws that contained concrete measures and concrete solutions in some discussions. Unfortunately, implementation has proved to be harmful, that the ministry is becoming a narrow throat, that there is no means to implement the specific measures in these laws. And it's actually the most dependent on money. Most of all, here depends on how much money will be invested in the implementation of some measures. Because if there's no money, there's no law. The law that doesn't apply is an anti-constitutional law, the law that doesn't apply is unconstitutional. When, for example, the law was passed in 2007. The law on areas of special state care, in the light of the law, said that the law would then be secured in 2009, for example, 680 million kuna, 680,580,000 kuna, to be precise. When we look at this law, things are different, but this law has a much different financial component that is not comparable to this law that I have now stated since 2007, this law also contained housing measures, so concrete housing measures, while there is no such thing as that. This law provides for funds only from this portfolio within the ministry and 80 million kuna for the development of general measures, for the implementation of general measures and 15 million kuna for measures for areas populated by members of national minorities, so another 15 million kuna, is the total financial envelope of 95 million kuna from the competent portfolio. What you can't see and these are resources from other resolutions, so other resolutions have to provide the means to implement their annual plans and that's what you can't see here. I realize that it's difficult, in fact it might not be possible to put those funds into law, that it's actually difficult to coordinate, but right now in the debate, it's showing that when we don't see those funds, we're criticizing them and we say little are the means to implement them. And for example, it means the other resources are not seen, so let's say we have the resources from the intervention plans, so we have funds from local self-government, so it's not true that there will be only 95 million kuna, there will be funds from other resolutions, there will be funds from the local self-government budget, there will be funds from intervention plans, there will be funds from EU funds. And the funds need, if we look at the development index table, it speaks enough about the state of local self-government. 304 units are assisted areas, 304 units. Well, it's not all that black, we've had the last year of applying a new law on the financing of local self-government units that removed financial uncertainty in a large number of local self-government units. There is no more uncertainty in funding units of local self-government which was a major problem for some municipalities just a year ago. Now these municipalities have another problem, now those assets that they have to spend quality, have to focus quality, have to focus on quality programs for citizens living in these areas. The question is whether some of these units have capacity or power. They will certainly need time to adjust their capabilities to the means available. As an additional value, we have intervention plans or an intervention plan that has been adopted for 5 cities and 1 municipality, so EUR 120 million from the European Funds is secured for Beli Manastir, Dardu, Benkovac, Knin, Petrinja and Vukovar, these cities have been selected in 2015. Decision on pilot areas for the implementation of the integrated physical economic and social regeneration programme of small cities in war-affected areas. It is now necessary to work to expand these areas, to select some other areas that will have this possibility, but at the same time, the country's particularly competent ministry must control little things. He needs to see how that money is spent, how the capacities are allocated, if there's no absorption, if there's no projects, if there's no spending, then those plans remain just a dead letter on paper. Plans for the next, or for the future programming period should already be developed, it would be good to know as soon as possible and to know the areas that will have the opportunity to prepare quality for the next programming period. As far as the law itself is concerned, the architecture of the bill alone has its turn. If we leave, then we leave from the objectives set out in Article 3 where, among other things.../incomprehensible/..., development programmes are listed in areas historically populated by members of national minorities. Therefore, those objectives set out in Article 3 shall be incorporated into the programme, a multi-annual programme adopted by the Government. Resori, therefore, brings forward its annual plan by the Ministry of Regional Development on the basis of this basic programme. The whole process is co-ordinated by the rest of the ministry, I think it's hard work, complicated that it won't be easy at all. But what I'm seeing is exactly what I was saying at the beginning, so besides that architecture, we don't have meat, everything is left for that programme and for the annual plans that are actually some kind of operational plan at year level, at the level of the budget year, and when the concrete measures themselves in the law then of course there are criticisms. Therefore, we will have to wait for the concrete implementation of the law, in particular the adoption of this multiannual programme and the implementation of at least the first year of annual plans, in order to be able to say whether the law has met expectations, whether the law is successful or not. I am not going to talk about the other two laws in detail but I would like to say one fact that I was on the thematic Committee on Local Self-Government where the topic was exactly the mountainous area where guests from other neighbouring countries talked about their experiences, about their concrete solutions and their concrete measures, and these measures were good because we need concrete measures because we have concrete problems on the ground. Let's just take an example of the county road administration that can't afford certain county road administrations, they can't fulfill their basic legal task to maintain a network of their own county roads, they don't have enough resources. That's got to go away. Did that have to be written in this Law on Supported Areas? It doesn't say that, but then it should be written in the program. It's supposed to be written in the annual plan. Let him write in the Law on Roads, but let him also write in the annual program or multi-annual programme or annual plan. The Department of Transport needs to find a way to solve this. I would like to stress, in fact, that the local community must have solutions for its problems, that it must also benefit from its wealth, from its natural local resources. That it must benefit from its forests, that the sawmills that work in the areas of the municipalities, that they have secured cubicity for drinking wood, that they benefit from rivers, lakes, have the right to benefit from their agricultural surfaces. It's not enough to have municipalities benefiting, for example, from a national park, a share of some kind of ticket sales or some kind of financial collage. We need to have measures that will encourage or even oblige the national park to have multi-annual contracts with local OPGs to buy domestic agricultural products. That local crafts have contracts for the sale of indigenous souvenirs. Well, after all, some local cultural and artistic societies have a contract I don't know about performances, they have some kind of cultural-art program, a calendar of performances that will develop a cultural offer of some place because it actually supports and finance a national park and everyone will benefit. Such things are in laws and other countries, so it is not something that does not exist in practice because the assisted areas cry for concrete measures that I have stated. If we take into account the Government's decision on the financing of projects in areas populated by national minorities and the three programmes that followed it, the response was excellent in both municipalities and OPGs and crafts. The terrain is thirsty for concrete measures that must not be one year old, they must be years old and stable because that is the only way we will achieve the goal and that is a balanced development of the entire Republic of Croatia. If it hasn't found a place in the law, okay, but then it should be written in the program, it should be written in annual plans. What I am concerned about right now, what I would say is that the deadline for the adoption of the programme, it is foreseen within 90 days of the entry into force of the law, so we are already entering into 2019, I say, I think it is a rather complicated process, what is now perhaps an additional difficult circumstance is that the adoption of annual plans goes within 90 days of the adoption of the budget. The budget has already been passed, so maybe there are deadlines overlapping then maybe the ministry will be a little bit in the time frame. Maybe it would be ideal if that job had already started, so I don't know, in the 1st month. i.e. January, the multiannual programme should also be adopted and, immediately thereafter, the annual rescheduling plans to implement those programmes for the first time. Col. Panenic was mentioned by the separation of areas populated by members of national minorities, I don't think he was then directed to matter itself, especially in the rights of members of national minorities, because then we could ask a question and why, for example, Beli Manastir, Darda, Vukovar, Petine, why do they have an intervention plan and 120m euros available for their projects? Is this discriminatory in some other areas? The introduction of areas populated by minorities in this law is an affirmative measure to remove at least a little attention in these areas where members of national minorities are inhabited. We also have other affirmative measures, such as employment representation, which is actually a miserable effect. Advocacy in the employment of minority members is limited only to local and state administration and this percentage of minorities falls rather than at least being maintained or increased. We have other groups that have the right to advantage but they have the right to advantage the entire public sector, much wider rights than minority members. So much about it and I'd say, in fact, when we look at the first four groups of assisted areas by the development index, so the most underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia, there live a total of about a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia and lives over 55% of the members of the Serb national minority. So we can see what kind of disparity that is. If we look at, for example, the poverty rate, which now amounts to DZS 26.4% and income, if we take, for example, Serbs or Roma, in particular, members of the Serb national minority living in low-income households, there are about two and a half times as many, two and a half times as many members of the Serb national minority, of which, the majority people. So we have some exact indicators that actually show the need for these areas to show attention, that the state shows greater concern for affirmative measures that are not discriminatory for anyone. Finally, he would point out the fact that the SDSS Club has tabled two amendments, and I hope the Resort Ministry will have the hearing to respect the arguments for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122664	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Maria Puh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122665	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in my debate most today, although we have a united debate, I would refer to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. Namely, all of us who come from the county and the places that have mountainous and mountainous areas are still traumatized since 2013 which then happened to local self-government units when they literally lost 50% of their incomes during the night. So all the projects that had already been agreed, planned budgets that were planned simply overnight, the then government adopted certain amendments to the law and were left without those funds. Why do I say we all have this trauma? Because all these units of local self-government have not recovered to this day, and this is now the first law to provide a concrete basis that can help them. What I am very pleased with, is that, I remember when the law was in the first reading we had all very many objections and literally in that law were just some principles and almost no good wishes in that law. The difference between the first reading of the law and this second reading of the law is really huge and you can see some contours. Whether it's satisfactory and whether that's what it's supposed to be, we could discuss it, but if it's made a huge and huge shift, it can definitely confirm it's made. What I was looking for in my first reading, which I was looking for and I'm glad to see at least the contours of it now, which is that there were absolutely no measures or absolutely no programs listed for the units of local self-government, now they are listed here. It is therefore stated that in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, measures will be taken to improve municipal and social infrastructure in mountainous and mountainous areas, eliminate the consequences of difficult climate conditions, prepare project technical documentation, prepare infrastructure, promote competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship and subsidisation of persons of deficiting interest. One of the things that I pointed out in the first reading, and it wasn't put under these measures, I once again ask the representatives of the ministry to think about it, which is to put it under these measures and to arrange and coordinate cadastres and land books. The reason why I think it should be one of the measures that could help mountainous and mountainous areas is that most of these areas of land prices are extremely small and when people need for land that is worth 2,000 kn, it takes 2500 kn to pay that they can take care of the cadastre and their land books, I assure you that no one will do so, and the budget of the units of local self-government itself is large enough to deal with the catastre and land books on their own, so I ask you once again to consider that this measure may also enter as some assistance to local self-government units, that even in Zagorje that are specifically on small parcels, in a fragmented manner, we can go round for business names and for tourism projects that are waiting for us in the future. I am very grateful that we mentioned in our first reading that it is not good and not covered, which is that we now have a clear return to the mountain card and that will allow people the rights and privileges to have the right to privileged public transportation for natural persons. So, when I first read about this law, I always ran a parallel with the island law, which I think is extremely well done and has been applied for years, which is that it's just as difficult for people living in hill-mounted areas, as well as for those living on islands, because in some way all of our hilly and mountainous settlements are islands and as they have been subsidized and they have privileged public transportation of our fellow citizens living on islands so that they can reach hospitals in Split or some other city, now, we finally have in the law a privileged public transport that will allow my citizens, that in some cheaper, perhaps easier way to reach the center of the county or hospital when they need it. Just because more and more and more bus lines are being lifted in all these areas, one good part of my county does not even have any links with the capital, no links with the City of Zagreb in which the hospital is located. So unfortunately, people have to cope in various ways, because not everyone has the ability to maintain and have two cars in their backyard that could be used to go to work and all the other things they need. It's been mentioned here before and on the budget itself, when we've brought it before, if I'm not mistaken for two weeks. We increased the item by mountainous mountainous areas by 25 million kn, compared to what was available this year. So I believe it will be visible, because if you took a multiplier, which will happen, with the funds, which will invest the local self-government units themselves, in projects that will work, I believe that it will have some shift for a moment and that you will be able to see much more. I also welcome the introduction of Croatian mountain product, the Croatian island product has proved to be something quite useful and well branded, I hope that Croatian mountain product will go in this direction. Although we are still very far from equating standards throughout the Republic of Croatia, for all units of local self-government, although this has already been tried to make equalisation through tax reform, unfortunately not all units of local self-government, were lucky and not all went equally well, and most often in those who were a little worse off were units that were from mountainous mountain areas. And what we're now passing by this law is just one little help to them. I believe that this law will eventually be further upgraded and that some things will be added to it. As a certain starting point, I think he's fine, at least I don't think it's good that they're not strictly listed in it, as I would say, by the name and last name of the municipalities and the cities that belong to that law. It might not be a bad idea to think about it, and as I have already said, consider one of the measures being to sort out catasters and land books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122666	I would like to thank my dear colleague, Maria Puh, for the individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122667	Thank you President, colleagues and colleagues as I have said, this law, a package of laws on mountainous mountainous areas, mostly mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas, is the most important law for 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia. It's a law of national importance, of national interest, at first I said it was the time of arrival and that the laws must be worked on that during Christmas Eve, to be a hearth, not to put out the hearth. Unfortunately, this law is an incentive to destroy, this law, both the two laws we have, i.e. All three, but this first one is technical, but these two laws are the last nail in a coffin of mountainous mountain areas. Absolutely no measure, except for our minister's PR, absolutely no measure is possible here. Not only because we have a numbered demographic, but there's no measure. What's the measure, here's some minister, I can see that there's no interest in going out behind a pay phone, but I hope that after this, they'll come out behind a pay phone and say what the measures stem from this law are. That they will tell us what areas these are, which are units of local self-government, which will enter the mountainous mountainous areas, we are discussing the law, and we do not know what units of local self-government will be. The last day, before the break, which will be held by the Croatian Parliament, the Constitution prescribed, I asked the ministers to withdraw on behalf of the Independent Lists Club, to withdraw this law, that this law be in the time for completion and to be in the time when it should be. I personally gave up as well as Club Mosta, the amendment minister, I hope you will look at them, I hope you will have time in the morning to put the government together, because the government has to make decisions on these amendments, and tomorrow is the last day when the assembly works. I hope it won't be clear what we refuse, we refuse, we refuse, it's out of protocol, it's going to be in accordance with the law. That you will call on the government, that the bridge will open the agenda to discuss the amendments, that tomorrow we will vote here on the amendments. Don't take this seriously. It is not a nice feeling to return to the Dalmatian Zagora, in Lika, here, my colleague Babić will confirm that this law does not give any hope to these areas, absolutely no hope. For everything you have called for in the debate, I am primarily irritated by the meetings of the government you are calling for in Split, here is my colleague from Vrgorec and the mayor also a parliamentary representative. So you already don't know how many times... A date on this one, that road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which would solve the issue of Hvar, which would solve the Vrgorak region problem, which would solve the backdrops of our Herzegovina, which has been forgotten, which would become a concrete hinterland and the islands would be joined together. He's opening up, and here's a colleague of Bacic's opening that road. The only thing left is a piece of the asphalted part that's dangerous in essence, which is steep, holes, pits, God forbid someone goes wrong there, they're gonna get killed, they're gonna fall on the highway down there. Therefore, everything you have said in Split, I have given through amendments and no amendment has been accepted as much as the care of the Dalmatian Zagora, as much as the care of the person, as much as the care of these natural resources, I expected this law to be said here, for example, meaning, the example of life, we will set these solara, microsolares on objects of people who cannot pay, have no money to which the state provides support from the budget or local self-government eats are energy-dependent and have no money for heating. Drava stands out huge money, however, there is no such thing. There are no measures here that encourage entrepreneurs. We need to know that, yes, you are all referring to the EU is very important to you, is it much more important to Prime Minister Plenkovic how to court Junker, Tusk, Macron or anyone else than to respect the EU Declaration on Policy in Supported Areas, as regards politics, means, entrepreneurs, in areas of mountainous or underdeveloped areas. So there should be fewer taxes for competitiveness. Down there is much more expensive in mountainous mountainous areas, much more expensive, more expensive life, energy, infrastructure maintenance, which means, in the end, a much more expensive product, more expensive labour. In the Gorski kotar we have sawmills, we have people, we have tradition, we have wood, we have woods, but when the woods are harvested, those woods in the balvanas go to Italy, there our workers go to work and as an additional value through the furniture goes back to the Republic of Croatia. So let us encourage these people to remain entrepreneurs there, there is winter 6, 7 months, 8 months in Gorski Kotar, in Dalmatia Zagora. You haven't even given a measure here, we've tried, we've given amendments, I believe you'll hold a session of the government in the morning and you'll make a decision on these amendments. At this time, we see what time it is now, eight and a half hours, we are discussing the most important law instead of in the morning because there are 200,000 people in that area. As the government comes into what area, it increases emigration. I'm glad, we're friendly, especially in Dalmatia Zagora, Licani, these areas, Slavons, however, it's not enough just to come to certain events, come to paint, photograph, give false hopes and promises that are not in the Laws, are not found. This is too serious a law to play with the fates of those parts. 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is literally empty because of these non-serious policies, such laws that are at least harmful. The Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds so far means so far. The Republic of Croatia has at least withdrawn funds from EU funds, was the last, and now Malta has arrived. Of the EUR 5.5 billion paid, we withdrew 900 million from the estimated EUR 10.5 billion. What's going to happen, we already have announcements from the Ministers that they're going to shrink in the budgets of Cohesion Funds or funds that you're going to settle because Macron, Tusk, Junker doesn't care about the Republic of Croatia. It is important to them that their listeners are headed by the state of the Republic of Croatia. That's what matters to them. We didn't fight to get those funds here, we didn't solve anything for those ends, we have natural resources, we have resources. Here are the microsolars when I mention it, the MOST of Independent Lists has a year of standing the Law on Procedure that would solve energy poverty in the Republic of Croatia, but they are more important wind power plants, that 1.5 billion kunas pay more electricity that is an incentive of energy and that goes into their pockets, while that money, meaning, could be invested in microsolares, thus encouraging entrepreneurship, thus encouraging everything else that goes along with it and there are no poor. These two laws are respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry the minister didn't withdraw, the last nail in the box 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia. If there are no concrete measures in these very important laws, believe me, this ministry needs to be shut down. It's unnecessary, all the costs you pay for piar, that's what we're trying to invest in these areas, in kindergartens, subsidies of kindergartens, subsidies. 50% of our children are not able to be in kindergartens, in other countries, you can see how she solved Germany, Belgium, Austria, how she financed underdeveloped areas that children, that parents don't pay for local self-government throughout kindergarten, we haven't solved that. This law is the last nail in the coffin and the minister would be best to suggest Government to shut down this department. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122668	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have a replica, dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122669	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, I really appreciate you because I remember that you were then, and now you're in the same party that did the majority of parliament with HDZ, but you didn't vote for the state budget proposal, I remember well when your search for additional funds for the mountainous mountainous area failed, you remained a man unlike many MPs here, I can't blame that minister, the minister working within her capabilities, but we now had a budget proposal, we were giving the same amendments to increase the funds for the mountainous mountainous area, for the assisted area and that man and the parliamentary representative who came from that area, raises his hand against it. So what happens in the Republic of Croatia when someone on the side is looking, it's an impossible situation, that a man from the assisted and mountainous area of the vote against the proposal to increase his speaker is not understood./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122670	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122671	Thank you very much. My colleague Pranic, yes, I was part of the majority as a parliamentary representative and I asked for an increase in funds for mountainous mountainous areas, it was not accepted that I did not vote in favour of the budget, as part of the ruling majority. And I'd do it again, if it were up to my voice, I'd do it again. Because I was chosen by the people, and as a representative of the people, I have this obligation. And I'm surprised that MPs from these areas have the cheeks not to support certain amendments and not to fight, that they don't fight with the minister. You're even partly right because parliament is above government, they have the greatest power, but that's not the case. It's not like that. And tomorrow I'll explain why it's not like that, when they're amendments. I was going to say now, but maybe it's not the time, but tomorrow I'm going to say, why is it that people in mountainous mountainous areas and undeveloped areas don't support things that matter to their citizens because they're not representatives of the people, they're party representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122672	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122673	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, here's when we talk about the mountainous mountainous area and when we talk to people who come from these areas, we can often get an answer from them so that they actually wish their status was restored to the mountainous mountainous area. This is a very interesting finding, given that the status of mountainous mountainous areas has not been abolished, however after 2014 and after numerous changes in the laws between other and mountainous mountainous areas of benefits that we have left are in fact very symbolic, mainly related to free harvesting of forest fruits and certain benefits during hunting seasons or during the lease of agricultural areas. At that time, we ran out of income from profit taxes, and first, we lost those 25% and later the rest of us left, and in fact, it was mostly profiting from the state budget while local self-government units had relatively little use of it. I would refer specifically to my city of Ogulim, which then ran out of more than 20% of its budget revenues. And it is not surprising, therefore, that residents of these areas believe that mountainous mountainous areas have been abolished since they practically had nothing of that status. It is evident that the current legal solutions are missing and are practically a dead letter on paper and, in fact, by 2018, the development of mountainous mountainous areas is not even actually financed from the state budget if I am not mistaken in 2018, only one million kuna are foreseen and the funding has been made exclusively through the separation of 10% of income tax in these areas of local self-government units. The basic measure, the basic measures that this law actually adopts and which we receive primarily is the programme of development of the mountainous mountainous area. This programme sets out the measures and projects that are key to the development of these areas but what is important is that all units of local self-government actually have the opportunity to participate in the design and creation of the programme. And this is exactly what these programs can say to the alpha and omega not only of this law but also of the Law on assisted areas where they are actually units of local self-government and which can precisely define all the problems and difficulties they face and, in fact, define both solutions, or find solutions and steps towards better through the precisely making of these programs. As regards the funds allocated from the state budget for mountainous mountainous areas, I personally believe that the priority should be to subsidise deficits in any way. In vain, we have all our support, all our good wishes, and all our measures if our environments or cities and municipalities are to be left without a doctor, dentist, teacher and without all those professions and without all those professions that actually make one city or one municipality a city and a municipality in the full sense of that word. Secondly, I would put in place a boost to entrepreneurship but through support that is actually important for the development of mountainous mountainous areas that are specific. And here I would stress the targeted support, not the kind we knew of having one-offs that may have been positive in the short term but had no effect in the long term, but targeted support for development and primarily for new technologies, to improve labour technology so that both these areas and industries could be competitive on the market and I would put particular emphasis on those who have a high percentage of finalisation in the production itself. Likewise, I would also mention removing the consequences of difficult climate conditions, there is, of course, an emphasis on the winter service that can be a big bite for, we can thus say the small budgets of individual units of local self-government. As far as the Croatian mountain product programme is concerned, I really welcome it, I hope that the regulation that needs to be adopted will indeed provide for measures that will help manufacturers on the ground. First of all, I think of all the small and smaller manufacturers, small OPGs that may not have had enough power and financial and actually marketing to go to the market and to choose their place under the sun on that market. And by branding Croatia's mountain product, we'll actually be able to make it easier for them. As regards the introduction of a mountain card, in addition to the right to privileged public transport, of course where we have that public transport, I believe that a much more important provision of privileged use of raw materials and natural resources is but that this use should be kept strictly defined, truly to the benefit of the population and that any abuses in the beginning would be anticipated and actually prevented. And in the end, I think it's important to repeat that without economic development, mountainous mountainous areas actually fall into our water all other measures of demographicism and beyond. And the activities that can not actually be but which must ensure the development and survival of these areas, I believe that the primary forestry and woodworking industries, but the woodworking industry with a high degree of finalisation and here I deliberately mention forestry even though it is not mentioned in the document itself, in the law itself, forestry that the woodworking industry itself must be based on the rules of the profession and the necessary management so that we do not consider this as one incentive or cause uncontrollable exploitation of this natural good. Equally, agricultural production must be sustainable, cost-effective and promoted and encouraged through Croatian mountain product and of course tourism that must be focused on the specificities of the region. These are, in my opinion, activities that we need to focus on and we need to pay particular attention when drawing up a development programme and, of course, I will repeat with a plan to encourage and, in fact, to keep all those deficiting interests without which life in these areas would not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122674	Thank you, dear fellow Liposchak. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Klaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122675	Dear fellow Lipoščak, you mentioned the important part of this law and what should be considered about the economy itself. It is good that the ministry has accepted that increase from 20 million to 40 million, but much more important than money, and that we had information from the meetings that we had with representatives from Austria, Switzerland also hilly, they do not have any benefits, but the conditions have been created for those living in such an area to feel comfortable living in that area and for the people to stay there to live. Therefore, this law should be seen not only in the financial part, as many respect it but should be seen in a package of all other laws, and primarily in this regard also the law on the financing of units of local self-government when these cities and municipalities are in such areas and how they raise their budget with the basis of those measures provided for by these laws. So, not only should we look at this law, but in a package of all other laws and resources, what Our goal is to keep the population in the area. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122676	Answer, dear colleague Lipovscack, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122677	My colleague, Klaric, fully agrees with you, and in fact, we often hunt ourselves in a trap in which we look at the law in a much wider light, in a much wider way, and when it does not fit, we look exclusively at it. This law carries directly with it certain financial resources, however, and what you have said are a number of other advantages and not only financial not only what you said about mountainous and mountainous areas, I will mention here, since we often talk about and talk about forests and forestry, we had not so long ago and the forest law here where, for areas or mountainous areas, and for assisted areas, forest contributions are raised by double means from 5% to 10%, these are not small amounts, these are not small amounts, here in particular the management of the Ogulin forest in 2017 has paid through the contribution of that old of 5% 2 million kuna to the units of local self-government and a simple calculation we can get to what money they are and now so I agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122678	I thank my esteemed colleague, Liposchak. The next debate, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, is not present. Dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122679	Thank you, Vice-President, Minister I will be affirmative in my individual presentation, in my presentation on behalf of the club I have said all the flaws that I consider to be contained in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and, in fact, often when I go from my Vrgorec to Zagreb, I simply ask myself why we in Dalmatia could not be like France's provans, or why, for example, the Kotar Mountain could not be like the Alps, Italian, French or Swiss. Why can't we simply paint a system of regional development of Western European countries into our system and turn one moving trend, facing positive sides, not to talk about emigration, to talk about the settlement of mountainous and mountainous areas, areas with all natural, cultural values and beauty. When a government needs to decide whether the relevant Regional Development Ministry will truly be the Ministry of Regional Development and give its own national funds to implement the Regional Development Programme or whether this will continue as it has been all these years. We cannot rely on European grants in regional development and help the assisted mountain-mounted area. We must have our own national resources, and if we have national means to buy planes, I believe that the same funds deserve both the mountain and the assisted area. It's 2/3 of Croatia. Personally, I still feel that we have lost 564 million kunas in the last 4 years to talk about 40 million kunas. These are simply illusory means which are extremely small so that we can even talk about keeping the space and developing the territory of Croatia in which 190.000 Croats live. We personally have proposed a few amendments, and I will try to use this debate to the end to present some things. In Article 15, you mentioned certain measures, we added environmental and nature protection measures, housing measures were also in the Law on an assisted area and measures to build energy systems from renewable energy sources. I'm concerned that environmental protection measures are not mentioned at all, if we want to leave those generations behind, we should also develop such measures that should actually preserve those natural beauty. In Article 20, we do not mention agricultural, competitiveness and the growth of agricultural meanings of activity, the moss in Dalmatia is agriculture and primary and secondary economic activity for many families, I personally observed all those families who do not move out. Because many farms say secondary sources of income. We didn't mention it in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. Co-financing of pre-school education in Croatia will be your turn in 2 years when kindergartens are built, when local self-government units cannot finance all employees from regular business and we will not be able to meet European criteria, although we are last for 60% of kindergarten children, Cyprus is next with 74%. This will come, this will need the Ministry of Finance to decide whether those kindergartens we're building now, we want to have children at all because units of local self-government from the mountain and assisted, will not be able to co-finance. The improvement of the environmental protection system, the improvement of the public tourist infrastructure system, tourism is also mentioned little in the mountainous and mountainous area, although I say I really don't understand why we in Dalmatia burn and we have reason to look forward because we are named the best rural tourism destination for 2018 now on the Days of Croatian Tourism in Hvar or Gorski Kotar, simply through the measures of the Ministry of Regional Development, we cannot develop that infrastructure. Now let's let the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Agriculture, because if we look at it that way, we have the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, the roof ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development, if we plan to develop mountainous and assisted areas. In Article 24, activities of importance for the economic development of the mountain-mounted area. You mention livestock, you don't mention pig farming, and you don't mention meat-processing industry even though it's complementary. If a tree with a tree industry is complementary, it's also livestock, pig farming related to the meat-processing industry. In particular, we have the meat industry of the Pivac Brothers. In many mountain-mounted areas in Croatia, other meat-processing industries operate, and I don't know why this activity isn't involved as an activity from a specific area for the development of the mountain-mounted area. You forgot your winemaking and your vineyarding. In Dalmatinska Zagora in Gorski Kotar and central Istria which we forget here within the mountain-mounted area, and Malta not 6 units I think it has now for mountain-mounted areas in... The law, winemaking and viticulture is an extremely important activity not only in terms of primary activity, but also in secondary further development of tourism that is based on these branches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a good article of the Helped Area Act, which is related to local self-government units around Plitvice Lakes. Now watch the paradox. The same article of the law I prescribed to you in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. In the area of mountain-mount of Croatia, you have NP Risnjak, North Velebit, PP Biokovo, Papuk, Učka, Žumberak, Velebit. Why not simply local self-government units collect one ticket from public institutions dealing with the management of the protected area? But let's cut that censorship to 2 million kuna. We're not all Plitvice Lakes. And another article that is very important to me. And I guess if someone understood finally in this country, we had built highways. Those highways are empty to us. And why not stand empty, so not all entrepreneurs have the possibility of paying highways and expensive tolls, why not encourage the development of entrepreneurship in the mountainous and mountainous areas by system that these mountain credentials as we have suggested by one amendment, entry and legal person with central business in the mountainous and mountainous area and are simply able to co-finance the roads on our highways? This way, the gaps are empty, they're built, we're returning debts and we're using them in the development of the economy at all, and that would be an incentive measure why some economic activities wouldn't move from urban to rural areas, let's just say it might be easier for some transit transport to come from Rijeka to Delnice if they had such benefits and everything else, and they'd probably hire certain people. The forgotten article of the law that I particularly liked from the former Law on the mountainous and mountainous area, which is an advantage for the right to rent agricultural and forest land and other natural resources, has the same condition as the natural and legal person with residence or the headquarters of units of local self-government in the mountainous and mountainous areas. We all know that the problems of natural wealth are forests and if we have equal conditions, why don't you give me the benefit of those private entities that have a seat in the hill-mounted area. There are also a number of amendments that are related to renewable energy sources, and I'm telling you that the mountainous and mountainous area due to geomorphology is going to come to you in the next three to four years, which is a very big problem, because because of geographical breakdown and small density, simply public water suppliers will not be able to finance themselves and there will be a bankruptcy of companies owned by units of local self-government. The most expensive water is paid to you by citizens in the hill-mounted area, which is why, due to the price of electricity, because of water pumping, in particular the area of Vrgorac and Imotski and Vrbovski and Delnica, compare the unit prices of water, you will see that the largest, much bigger than in Zagreb, Split itself, Osijek or any other city in the valley. Because the simple price of electricity has a significant impact, we now have the latest public procurements where 30% of the electricity prices have gone up. We tried to present all of this through the amendments, but I personally think that the financial envelope will not be enough for these with 40 million kunas to finally implement it, and I think that the government and the prime minister should give a clear answer whether they want to live in a mountainous and assisted area because this is nothing more than squirming and sometimes I really wonder why I am in the Parliament, sometimes I wonder why I am the mayor of a city when I can't tell my citizens it'll be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122680	Thank you, dear colleague Pranic. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122681	Thank you very much. Comrade Pranic, you have made suggestions, you have also mentioned activities and agriculture that can be dealt with and all that energy is needed. The fact is, when we mention agriculture, you mentioned vineyarding. Here I will mention that the competition for the best extra virgin oil in Vodice, Dalmatia, selected olive oil from my village in Dalmatia. We have hope. We have potential. We have the most beautiful piece of land. We have sources of drinking water. But we have to have sustainable development, but someone doesn't care that people live here and fight. Because this law doesn't encourage these people to stay in that area. This law is destructive. This envelope is ridiculous, what you said about this 40 million kuna package. 85 units of local self-government. This is ridiculous. This is a mockery.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122682	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. The answer of my colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122683	Well, of course, my colleague Bulj is a really funny envelope of 40 million kuna and when, because I am personally starting from the point of view that all these programs will go through the Ministry of Regional Development. As for other ministries, you see you also have investments in Croatian waters on a regular basis that is not part of the mountain-mounted area and a series of other institutions. But we need to know that our roof ministry of regional development is called the Ministry of Regional Development, I expect that in their part, the housing of the state budget to be bigger funds. But that's what these gentlemen here from the parliamentary majority, no matter what part they come from, if we were, in particular, in the parliamentary majority, I would ask for it. So there's no blame for the government, you know who's voting the budget. The budget is voted by parliamentary representatives and what I said in one of my presentations, I do not realize that someone who comes from that area raises his hand against the amendments that actually gives greater funds to the mountainous and assisted area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122684	I thank my colleague Pranic for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122685	My colleague Pranic, you mentioned the woodworking industry and the question why would we not give them the opportunity to actually process that raw material in their area? Well, it's just in law in art. 24. says activities of importance for the economic development of the mountain-mounted mountain-mounted, mainly wood processing industries and production of the final stage of processing. In fact, through a letter of understanding to all those who cannot justify their invoices, i.e. to prove further processing of wood, reduce the quotas of that wood. In this way, in fact, the law encourages final production, in this way larger quotas, and in fact reduces manipulations for someone to get wood mass just because it is located in such an area and that a product that is not a final but a log comes out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122686	Thank you. Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122687	My colleague, I was personally this winter in Gorski kotar after snowfalls with my colleague Bul in person, and I know very well the Mayor of Delnice and Mayor Vrgorec, Mayor of Chabra, in fact, all of us from the mountainous area always stick together regardless of the party's omen. And we all say the same thing. And you know as well, I've been listening to your careful exposure to why the woodworking industry was developing at that time in Gorski Kotar? Because then entrepreneurs in the mountain-mounted area had benefits based on profit tax. And you know it. And that's off. And while it was, we could use this baratat system to get the entrepreneur right into the hill-mounted area, open its production, and normally have one part of the profit tax, freed himself, or not equal at Croatia level, now we've all evened out. This is Croatia's regional development policy. Equipped everything. And as long as we have such tax systems, simply entrepreneurs will not come to an assisted mountain-mounted area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122688	I thank my colleague Pranic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122689	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Minister with the Associates. So I'm going to start with one finding, namely, one survey conducted by the Institute of Public Finance on county and municipality incomes says that the county has seen an increase in the average total income, and the municipalities have an increase in average income per capita and that is, therefore, the period 2014-2017. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about exactly how some of these colleagues mention, how municipalities and counties are, etc. deprived, no income, and the rest, however, the facts say otherwise. When reforms were made, tax reform, then it is known that the most important factor in the last 5 years of income per capita was precisely the number of inhabitants in each area, which means that everyone should in this sense make sure that people are attracted to the number of inhabitants as much as possible. If we are talking about the law itself on assisted areas and mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas, then we see that the aim of the laws itself is to refer through the law on regional and regional self-government units, i.e. the index of development, to where and in which groups that belong both here and there, and also to the other law, to the development holder, and also to the planning and management of development, are actually units of local self-government where they, through their development agencies and their plans, actually coordinate with the ministry and refer to what they want to achieve in this particular area. So when you're talking about not knowing who's involved in the hill-mounted mountain, then it's enough to read or assisted, assisted areas, it's enough to actually read the Regional Act itself, and then the decision to define who's in which group, so that they can identify who belongs to which category and how to come to the very definition and status of a single municipality or city. When we look at it, and it's published here on the Ministry of Regional Development's pages, then you can see, here, for example. The use of EU funds by county in 2018 with the end of the 8th month of this year, and then it is seen that from 2014 to 2020, the perspective with this period is the same. A total of 3484 programmes and projects have been reported for the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion per county, worth more than 32 billion kuna. Through the operational programme, effective human potential is 840 projects worth 4.5 billion, and the rural development programme is as much as 190,748 projects worth 9.1 billion kuna. And now I'm wondering who has reported all these projects, which are ghosts, Casperes, who report these projects, I think the ministers that these are real data, so the projects have been agreed, the question is, are you of all the projects, whether we are part of some community, have really recognized and identified the real priorities that are going to run certain developments, or did we do so in order, so let's ask ourselves whether this framework that's been set up through this island law, so the mountainous mountainous or assisted areas, whether we have recognized our potentials really in this way, projected them in the way we think that this development should be, and in addition, if we're not from these financial capacities, then, strengthened through tax reform and otherwise set income tax revenues, so let's ask ourselves, then, how could there be so many projects if you're like those that we're not good at where they're water. Therefore, I claim that this is an excellent tool that allows all of us to think and teach each other what is our priority, what are our options, what will create a new value, and how it will all work out so that what our colleague Pranic said will become a developed Switzerland, Austria or any other region in Europe. So, we have potential, we use these tools, we use all these funds that are offered to us, where, when you look at it, our national part is only 15%, and everything else is the funds that come from the EU. So let's stop, let's not cry over what we haven't achieved, but we're working on doing a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122690	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. Replica esteemed colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122691	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Perić, you really understand the financial flows, and then perhaps you understand this calculation where we have lost a simple mountainous area of 564 million kuna, or perhaps you understand that these new fiscal balancing measures are not the same as all those measures in 2014. I understand that the units of local self-government are given 2 maybe billions of kunas, but that's right, maybe wrong, because imagine that we've got billions of kunas, and the Ministry of Regional Development has billions of kunas in its hands, that it can further stimulate the mountainous mountainous areas because let's not forget that within these 2 billion kunas hide many units of local self-government that have very much resources, have the means for new glidering sites big, I don't really have it in my city, I'm not saying that it's not a bad skating area, you have many islands of coastal cities and municipalities that have passed within that Law, maybe it's much better if a billion kuna kuna were made available. The Ministry of Regional Development so it can implement regional policy in the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122692	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Answer, colleague Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122693	But you don't want to understand that funding models have changed, that the government and we have to, work in a way that strengthens you as your original financial, fiscal incomes. So, in the units of local self-government, in the county, in cities, it's precisely the goal of empowering them as such, and they create preconditions, therefore, with their original incomes, not that the Ministry transfers for some project in one way or another, these are outdated models that we have to deal with, which are simply not sustainable anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122694	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122695	238 only that, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, as regards the strengthening of fiscal capacity, there is no increased fiscal capacity, meaning, the rise in income, income tax, the non-taxable part of payment 3,800,00 kn, income tax revenues are reduced. As far as these national funds are left to local self-government units, the question is, what will happen after 2021 when the population is reduced, and we all know that these measures go beyond the population, which will then happen There will be more decomposition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122696	My colleague Pranic and you and I are aware of the fact that you already have three replicas and that you have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but since you are aware I will not give you a warning. We're moving on to the next debate of respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122697	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, honourable minister, assistant minister, I would now speak only about the Final Proposal of the Law on Supported Areas in my debate. They can indeed agree with all colleagues who would like far more funding to be provided for these areas, however, they cannot agree that there is no measure in this law, because exactly one section in this law refers to measures to the development of an assisted area, and it is precisely here that the measures that need to improve the availability of local infrastructure and economic, social and demographic revitalisation of assisted areas with the aim of balanced regional development with the following measures from the improvement of municipal and social infrastructure, the preparation of project technical documentation for local development projects, the preparation of infrastructure as a prerequisite for investing in economic recovery, the creation of conditions for raising living standards, etc. It is this article, as well as the one concerning the obligation of the Ministry to submit to the Government a report on the effects of the implementation of the programme, that it is a newspaper in relation to the draft law in the first reading and the obligation to act under this law not only does the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds but also the central authorities of the state administration and other public authorities. What I would particularly point out and what I am pleased to do since I come from Sibenik-Knin County, since in this area we have cities and municipalities in their territory, they have a protected area registered, I am pleased to see Article 22, more precisely, paragraph 2, because this first refers to units of local self-government in assisted areas, which in their field have registered protected areas, thus exercising the right to cash compensation by a public institution. For those who do not know, refer to Krka and Plitvice National Parks, and it is precisely Krka National Park that is a protected area that falls into this category that has income, net revenue from ticket sales greater than 20 million kuna. According to the proposals so far, the city of Drniš would be cut off for compensation, and that fee has been around 850,000 kuna in the last two years, for example. The town of Skradin had a million-and-a-half kuna, the municipality of Prominik, Kistanje is about as much on this basis, and in the area of the town of Drniša there are 2,300 hectares of registered protected natural area. As the town of Drnis knows that it no longer falls under assisted areas, it would be denied for these revenues, so thanks to the ministry, the Minister of Understanding, I have spoken of this topic myself several times when the legislators were the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and also when we had a thematic session on the topic of overcoming the development constraints of mountain and mountain areas and even development of the Republic of Croatia. Since the town of Drniš has a lot of specificities and also shares the problems of the Dalmatian Zagora, this income that will have and the unit of local self-government will achieve up to 5.5% of the net income from that public institution is not negligible. It should be pointed out that these funds are intended revenue and that the city of Drniš as well as other units of local self-government that will receive funds, can be used exclusively for nature protection projects, construction of municipal water facilities for public water supply, public draining, maintenance of the cleanliness of the settlement and the collection and processing of municipal waste. Of course, the Ministry of Nature Protection will oversee the use of these funds, but once again thank you on behalf of Drniš and Drniš that this law will allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122698	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juricev- Martinchev. We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122699	Thank you very much, distinguished colleagues are all declarative views, so we don't have the measures worked out here, and we don't know at all what the scope, what local self-government is, 85 will be, so almost twice as many now as 45 have in local self-government. Is 40 million kuna for this all you've listed, so there's no 12 kunas just to count what you've listed, not 85 local self-government. So we've increased if I see some fellow MPs boasting that they've accepted an amendment of 10 million kuna, and they won't say that the number of units of mountain-mountan i.e. has increased. We're discussing the law, and we don't know which units of local self-government are within it, it's meaningful. And just a year ago at this time Drnis was declared a developed end, developed, here is the minister and her ministry has declared Drnis a developed end No more cats, no more mice. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122700	Here are my colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122701	Thank you very much, so, fellow Bully, my first sentence was to agree with you and that everyone would certainly like more funds planned. I wasn't talking about the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas over there is 40 million kunas unlike aided by 95 million kunas and I agree that it's not enough. But I can't agree with you that there's no measure when you're exactly standing up to the whole section and the measures are numbered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122702	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev Martinchev. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122703	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, I would like this debate to have ended long before, so that it can respond to the amendments, our colleagues from the Most, and you will actually have to return to the ministry after all, but good. The government is certainly aware of this situation and has thought and radically and proposed the law, these three laws, I now refer to the Law on the mountainous mountainous area. So already there was a situation that was not good in rural areas, especially in the mountainous mountainous area, and that is why it actually went into the draft of this law. Now, this problem, what it is, I will refer to my colleagues from the bridge, what you said on behalf of the club and in individual debates, this issue has not been since yesterday, so since 2002 it seems to me that six or seven times this law has changed, and it has changed, and there is only a fellow member of the SDP I remember when he was Minister of Regional Development, then the Minister of Regional Development, we were at the time arguing about indexation, so circumstances have conditioned certain things true that colleagues from Slavonia, Lika Senjska County or we from the Split Dalmatian County, especially all had some differences for some new, different or better indication, about how we could actually get as much funding for local administration and self-government units. You tell us what we need asphalt, what we need road, what we need water for, what our footsteps will do, and I tried to see your 2019 budget on the pages of the city of Vrgorca so I can see if you planned anything about it. So, opportunities condition you for that. You're a young man, you're full of enthusiasm, as mayor, you know that I have respect for everything you do. I don't know why you're in the Bridge, you're supposed to be in HDZ, but you're wrong so you'll come and I'm sure of it and all your suggestions are welcome. I do not have sympathy with you, but we come from the same areas, mountainous mountainous areas, and all of what you're saying, we've been saying for 15 years. However, how do you plan to develop, how do you think to talk about the economy, investments if you don't have built infrastructure and that was our problem from the very beginning. When you talk about demographic devastation, I agree, but it didn't come from '90, '91, 2 or 3 years ago it's been almost 50 years. So, the area where you and I come from, and you know that they were completely devastated, the fact is that they had certain industries under quotes down, artificially made, but when the market went missing, and that industry, people were fired. As far as these funds are concerned, when you transfer to the minister, I say some, perhaps with the right, you have the autonomy to decide. So every municipality and every city and every county can concentrate all their resources on what they think is best for them, here's this fellow who sits next to me, he's been thinking about an industrial work zone in his area for a long time, even though many people from his town were mocking him about it, actually calling it funeral names, today they're not arguing about it anymore. What is a paradox, what you have talked about, and many people, you will see and it will happen to you, and that is the strangulation of all of you all cursing the state and throwing wood and stones at the state, and everyone is asking for help from the state and from the units of local administration and self-government, and therefore perhaps there is no room for you, although you are in opposition to some kind of apathy, defetism, negatism, because it is actually such a picture, where people from your country and my neighborhood are often leaving because of these statements in the Croatian Parliament, and this hopelessness is partly dissuading them and leaving their places, are going into suspense and many are unfortunately disappointed. So, maybe there's something else I want to say that I don't take much more time, I said more about the indexation, about the proposal, so I also said in the replica, I'm grateful to the minister for, say, the intervention plan regarding the Imotski final and the town of Imotski. We have been working on this, with all due respect to the minister who is here, we are political persons, but let's say, here I am looking at this colleague Katica Miskovic, whom you know well, so she is here from the very beginning, and she is actually a chronologist of all these events, and in fact she could talk about this most in the Croatian Parliament, knowing the situation in which we were at the time. So, I'm sure in the best possible way she wants to do the most just thing to be equal representation and to have as little criticism as possible of this law. So, I'm grateful, when we were talking about the Imotski intervention plan, we didn't mean to do it selectively, because I'm from Imotski or you from Vrgorec, we were already talking and talking about Vrgorec, and about Sinj and Vrlica, so, about many other places and through these plans will corner. All units of local administration and self-government get. When we look at a wider picture, and you were also witnesses to this, so in 2017, amendments to tax laws, tax laws packages and all that revenue, I was also talking about the excise tax code, so, always trying to put certain demographic measures, and also those measures that would improve the situation in our neighborhoods in the excise tax code, this would be related to the transport of students, because of the inability of the economic price set, and here you have through this mountain card, where you will be able to use it in the area of a county, for certain benefits in line transport, but for mineral and other raw materials in that area. When we were working on the amendment, along with Mr. Shipich, Pooh, then increasing that 10 million kn, I agree, it's a little bit and we'd all like ha billion might please us. But fiscal possibilities aren't like that, and believe me, if we put 100 million pounds each, we'd be looking for more today, which is normal, which is natural. So, all mezetimo, what my colleague Pranjic said, would not agree to live in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and in these rural areas. It's not the same when we talk about islands, I agree with that. The square meter of Hvar land or Brač is 300 euros, with us 5 euros. It's not the same thing. It is not the same to pay for the construction permit in the area of Vrgorec or Imotski or, for example, in Split, the connection of electricity, water or the like. Payment of the price of water, we talked about it all. But unfortunately, the situation is such that we simply want that part to flow fluidly, and unfortunately we pay a higher price, and that's the truth. Now, of course, the law can always be changed. You say what happens when the demographic picture changes. Listen, I'd love to, but positively, I've been telling you, from my experience, everything we could give to young families, and you're giving it, I've seen it on your pages, so from birth, maternity, I don't know, later, kindergarten, until you go to school, paying transportation, paying for high school students, scholarships to students, getting students, seedlings,... So everything we could give, we let these people survive, but it's not always for demographics a crucial financial reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Trust me. So the social climate has to change, and in fact we were all participants being opposition or position to change this social climate and we're going to get better. When we're making comparisons, which I heard from your presentation, this isn't personal to you now, when you tell me about Provenza, I was talking about Provenza in 1995, and she's logical to me. When you talk about the Alps, the Gorski kotar and that makes sense. So that's what they were talking about back then. We can have both Germany and Austria here. But we don't have a mental set of German and you're aware of it, you've often told me about it as mayor because you know citizens who come to you don't think that way. So support this law, and here are the amendments that you have supported, you know that we will not be able to accept them, which is understandable because we are in agreement with the ministry, we would like that to happen, but in some of the amendments that you are proposing, especially our colleague Bulj, it is as if you are asking that all students in the high school in Vrgorec must finish their determined class. It's just not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122704	Thank you, dear colleague Babic. We have replicas, dear colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122705	Thank you very much. You, my colleague Babic, were actually talking to a colleague, Pranic, and I guess he can't answer because he cracked his lines, so I'm just going to refer to the part where you said you appreciated his work and how well he works, but unfortunately neither in the MOST nor in HDZ. I mean, I've heard that a lot of times, it's a thing and my mayor, he'd want me to be in HDZ, if my mom was in HDZ, that my dog was in HDZ, that my cat was in HDZ, but that's impossible. I mean, at least for me and Mom. You need to understand, in fact, that regardless of the party we're in, we want this country well in our local community, and maybe that's why we're not in HDZ. So don't underestimate us in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122706	I'd like to thank my colleague Matteljan. Here's your colleague, Babic. Stick to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122707	Of course, of course. I refer to what he was saying, I don't know if you listened to your colleague Pranic, but now that he asks, I know that his wife is a colleague of Pranic and his mother-in-law in HDZ and she was the president of the council, so that's why I said it, so it was like that, it was more personal, and he knows it very well. I'm not saying it should be, but it was really up to him because he talked about it, you know you're in HDZ, so you did it because we don't think about it, we're ruling, I certainly wouldn't support this, but we'd be working differently on it. No, it's not like that. I remember very well how many wars we, under quotes, led with Mr. Greek, who also had a good will to settle some things, but simply couldn't, and then that law was under criticism from the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122708	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Liposcak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122709	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Babic, in your presentation you said that the law can be changed if conditions are created for this. So that's why it might be better for some things in this law to just define with certain rules, with certain programs whose change is much easier in fact, and much faster than just changing the law. And so, in fact, this law actually gets a much more flexible and efficient framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122710	Thank you. Buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122711	When compared with some far more developed countries of the Republic of Croatia, a colleague of Lipoščak, then the ministry in those countries is running a strategy for you. So they deal exclusively with strategy. We too lack this in many areas and must know and the public must be clear, that unfortunately in that time of creation of the Croatian state we have passed the transition from one system to another, both the political, economic, war, refugees, transition, peaceful reintegration, the adaptation of the EU, and it is simply not possible to do so in such a short time. If we had only the ministries dealing with the strategy, and that on that vertical level when it is distributed according to the principle of subsidiarity of the unit of local administration and self-government, then a lot of things would look very different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122712	I thank my colleague Babic. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122713	Thank you. Here, when I was studying, my focus was usually regional development, so we did interesting research. We have studied these resources for assisted areas, for mountain-mounted areas and how they work because we used to have an effect, it should act that these cities come out of such areas as soon as possible, not to be helped anymore, to simply increase population density so that they are no longer mountain-mounted and when they are on that transition line no one wants, as everyone wants to be undeveloped because they get the funds. Then we did another interesting analysis, how they spend their money and then we saw that everyone has a lot of travel costs, everyone has some drivers, official cars, unlike some that are more developed. Then we asked a little bit why it was so, so you know we always have to run to Zagreb, we have to pull someone by the sleeve, because in fact it was some national means so focused and it was very interesting to see that you, along the sea, have richer municipalities, but they don't have a car, they don't have some big means of representation, so the funny question came up when it was meant to decide in the Split-Dalmatia County to finance textbooks, so when it was established that maybe there wasn't enough funds for everything then it was said so well, you more developed let's pay your basic textbooks and these underdeveloped ones, we'll pay them. And then there were questions of these developed, well, we can pay our primary school textbooks but there can be no cost of a small municipality that for a zero one less has a budget on lunches, dinners, bigger than ours, let them also focus a little on textbooks. So I would simply say now that I think this law is going in the right direction, I am not looking at these resources that are provided for mountain-mounted areas as funds that will develop mountain-mounted areas rather than help in implementing this law which requires that all resolutions, all resolutions make plans and measures to allocate funds to mountain-mountan and assisted areas. And what's the key to that word? We now have European funds, we keep mentioning, we had these national resources, we had this law, but nobody says how much bigger our budget is now because we have EU funds, so we're mountain-mounted, so everyone who's a little larger index of development can't even get close to that line, so they're all complaining, you're promoting for all of the EU funds, and they're not for us at all, they're for mountain-mounts, for the islands, for the supported ones, and nobody mentions that amount that's increasing. Of course, we're focusing now on those who are shrinking and that's all good and then campaigning in those hill-mounted and assisted waters to fight as much as the budget is spent on, you need to sell the car immediately, you need... The driver, when the new mayor comes, the mayor, the miracle, he calculates really for all the travel expenses he has to make, for all the lobbying, for his city, how many times he has to go to Zagreb, look I need that driver, I need that car and it's very funny there and when we look at the funds that we've been through the Balance Fund to some cities, so maybe it was more and maybe it hasn't returned enough, but the real question is what they're doing with that money now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at the beginning of the year, they weren't expecting these funds, they were reducing the cost or giving to the facilities, some were shutting down, they were firing down, and then you came in after a few years, and a year people told you so, look, our ambush has no light, we don't have a container or an end to the cemetery, our cemetery is buried with garbage, and it all looks like a disaster. People simply become deeply divided and therefore I certainly welcome this mountain card and I must say that when I look at other resors, other resors will not exactly assign to the municipality and the city that it distributes money for various activities across its inhabitants but will assign them to infrastructure, of course more often and when we look at farmers, they will come directly and then, on the basis of the advantages, get directly more funds. If we ask them you want your mayor to share with you that on the basis of equal criteria with clear points you get it, they would, though, maybe some would prefer to get the mayor those funds so they might be the ones who will get more, easier, but when you ask them, they still want it to go directly. Now this fama eye, colleague Branka also mentioned it about these funds in the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. We here sometimes divide into those who come from the hill-mounted mountains, who come from the assisted ones, who come from the island area. Now, the islanders somehow reacted differently, they discussed differently, and they're satisfied with the law, and as they're satisfied now we're all talking and their law is better, they're given a lot more, they have so much and so much resources. They were given 1.7 billion kuna in 2017, is that what the law says? It doesn't say. It says that for law enforcement, there were 181 million kunas and they received 1.7 billion kuna. Now the darkness is how much more expensive the land is on the islands, so they live better. Well, because they have higher costs for building infrastructure projects, if they're 300 euros square, if the initial self-procurement is some area, the country's authorities, so they already have 60 times the cost in the beginning and we forget the costs due to the separation, because of the ships. Now I'd like to say something constructive to watch out for myself. I already see that this law goes in this direction that maybe it won't happen anymore, that it requires all ministries to bring measures and plans that will help assisted areas and what happened in the rural development programme, not only in the rural development programme but also in national measures, I followed this part for agriculture. The benefits of the projects were high in mountain-mounted areas and islands and there were no assisted areas. We have a Cista Provo municipality, Chief Bozo Cubic, a wonderful chief warns me I fight with it all the time. So we've got cash-sold milk fees for mountain-mounted areas, aided completely from that. We had funds for small farmers, 15 get islanders, 15 mountainous areas. We have Vrgorac, Imotski, they're mountain-mounted and among them runovics, so PPDS, so even poorer, which we say in a joke, I need more help, they're gone. Their farmers show up for the competition, they're nowhere to be found, far below the line because we did a bad thing, in the competitions for the rural development program, it was enough just to be from the hill-mounted areas, that from the island, you weren't looking at the quality. Then there were, among us, people were saying, so look, we were in such a hurry, we have some simple structures, we have cracked the playground, we have no or no children, we have done it, we have done it all because, regardless of the quality, we have received a much greater advantage and it is not good and we have really damaged the cysta Provo and Runovića and all other assisted areas or areas that fall within the PPDS because they have all the characteristics of the mountain-mountin area, in our area some supported have no features of mountain-mountan but this one from the Imot region which I mention, which still has more Vrgorska krajina Vrgorac municipalities remained under one municipality, so it is a little different, so it is even more damaged, I believe that there may be such ones in the Sinj area and when you directly work with these problems, and it is really important that there are some of regional development that you do so much more. We had such a situation in rural tourism. So we had that used Table A and, that is, the classification into classes which is largely justified but largely not justified. Because why? The Ministry of Tourism or HTZ, I do not know now exactly who adopts this Regulation according to these established criteria, have adopted this Regulation with the aim of charging a residence tax rather than with a view to whether a large part of it may be needed, but it is a pity that there are parts that simply do not deserve that restriction and so on. So it's very important when we use a list, a table, these kind of areas, class classifications, and I think this law will make it possible because once again, one roof ministry is reviewing all these measures, it compares them. So everyone's bringing some kind of list for themselves. And when you're using it means a little study of it, think about it so that these really first competitions for and the rural development program that I'm following the most were very bad for those who helped the areas. And here's what I want to emphasize here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122714	Thank you. We have a replica. Dear colleagues of Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122715	Oh, here's just one interesting thing. The city of Zagreb, which generates 42% of the total income of all Croatian cities, has per capita in 2017. 8 thousand 177 kuna per head and 12 cities and even 33 municipalities have higher income per capita than the city of Zagreb, which is one interesting thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122716	Thank you. Here you go, pals. [[Thank you, you've got me right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122717	Thank you. So we also have these situations, let's say here's counterpart Ante knows about Zadvor so they have a small municipality, few inhabitants, but there's one of the largest hydropower plants in Croatia, or there's some big drive, and he's very much raising that income per capita. And indeed infrastructure and budget, these are very, very small budgets because income per capita is large but the population is 270. So, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122718	Thank you. Dear colleague Ante Babic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122719	Here I thought you wouldn't let me, but in addition to that and also in favour of a respected minister, so it's very difficult for both the minister and the ministry to do what you are, you mentioned the cysta promo, so let's say that milk subsidies. So in the community itself, you have several settlements. So let's say the settlements of Aržano, known for its first death in the Homeland War, Josip Jovic, they have subsidies while the settlement, for example, does not have a Cista Provo. So it's not good for microlocations to create certain animosities when you say, let's say... They don't have it in these areas, then it's not good, but it's very difficult for the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We talked about it but it's good what you said since the law itself calls... certain other ministries, it shouldn't happen and then it actually creates confusion in the field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122720	Thank you. Dear colleague Vranjš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122721	That's right, the Ministry of Regional Development here, and whatever and whenever it was, it didn't make a mistake. So that's what defined the mountainous mountains that were supported. But when others took those lists, they saw this mountainous mountainous mountain. And then simply now they have all the warrants to their extent and the programs within a short period of time to include all these specificities, and the sooner it would happen, the advantage of the score, there's an island, there's a mountain mountainous mountainous and somewhere that helped us and lost. And I don't know why, I'd even talk to some colleagues, so they say, and that's something they do, whatever war, assisted areas they are, they have characteristics with us mostly and mountainous mountainous but we'd say they're even more miserable and sadder. I mean, it sounds ugly, but they'd joke like that, so don't forget them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122722	I thank my colleague Vranj. We have a final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the debate will be shared by colleagues Pranic and colleagues Bulj. Here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122723	Thank you, Vice President. To sum up on behalf of the MOST Club today's debate after all the presentations of individual parliamentary representatives' clubs. There is no regional development policy, even development without greater allocation of national resources, regardless of the resources they have made available in the EU's grants. We cannot rely on these funds unless we really intend to extinguish the demographic breakdown of the rural area of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should also answer this simple question, whether financially strengthening the national resources of the Ministry of Regional Development or, when we sum up today's presentations, we say the Ministry of Agriculture gives some funding, the Ministry of Transport gives some funding, Croatian forests give some funding, Croatian waters give some funding, the Ministry of Demography gives some funding. So if we have all these ministries that give something, and in the financial envelope, the Ministry of Regional Development sees that it doesn't give as much as it should, or there's no exposure, why the Ministry of Regional Development? Let's attach it to the Ministry of Finance. Not that I have anything against employees of the Ministry of Regional Development who are doing their job in accordance with legal possibilities. So you're looking at the financial envelopes that we have within the state budget, because it's all going from money to money, how much money we have, and so the music says the old proverb. And I do repeat that there is no national policy on the even development of Croatia without greater isolation. Today we are discussing a law that regulates life on two-thirds of Croatia's surface. When are we discussing this law? We're discussing here now in the late 21.36 hours final report the last day before Parliament's disbandment for this year. There'll be a vote tomorrow. I mean, what kind of picture of us, we say what kind of picture we send to the rural area of the Republic of Croatia, like we send from this Assembly ton, I don't know, let some, future, positive deeds or I don't know what, optimism, when we're discussing the last day. So if the rural area of the Republic of Croatia was really the most affected demographically, we should have discussed this a lot sooner. The President of the Parliament was due when the government last week gave this immediately to Monday or Tuesday for debate, in the morning. Indeed, if we want to have a constructive discussion of all clubs, not like this, given the last day, and then when you ask what kind of picture we're sending. Well, we're sending the painting exactly as the President of the Parliament has put this law on the agenda. It is not a matter that, according to my colleague Bulju, Mr Babić, it would not be debated, according to my colleague Bulju and us from MOST based on the State budget today, we would be discussing an envelope that would be minimally larger for 50 million kunas only for mountainous mountain areas, not to mention the assisted area. And it's really flexible to say that there's no money in the state budget, there's money, there's planes being bought. But if the rural area of the Republic of Croatia continues to be evicted like this, it will become a reserve in 20 years, without people, and who will be guarded by these planes? The naked rock we're going back to, and you and I, the day after tomorrow by car. It will remain from Dalmatia's Zagora, and trends cannot change without fire measures, national fire measures by our roof Regional Development Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122724	I thank my colleague Pranic, my colleague Bulj. Comrade Babic, please don't disturb your colleague while he's discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122725	And extra time. Someone said it was a mountainous mountain, a colleague said, undeveloped, even worse, the fairest, I'm proud that Zagora gave birth to me in the middle of a gray stone. This law does not bring good to you, neither does Zagora, nor does it bring you Licens, nor Slavons, nor does it bring you anything from the Qur'an. This is one of the most common pamphlets of pirates that brings more damage to regional development, in fact, if this doesn't change, and this envelope on the amount level, this is that the Minister stole Christmas from those areas, but sent them a message that the Government of the Republic of Croatia absolutely doesn't care about these areas. This law is a pure pear pamphlet. Minister, this is one of the biggest embarrassments to 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122726	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We are moving on to a debate on behalf of the promoter-respecting Minister Gabriela Žalac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122727	Representatives, here I thank you for this lengthy debate on our 3 bill proposals, but no, I just don't see the real purpose of what you've been saying and in everything you've been reporting because it's really, really, you just don't read the concepts, and you don't know how fiscal responsibility goes in the direction of other laws, nor do you know how direction goes, meaning, financially, precisely in the original budgets of the units of local self-government, and let's talk about these two laws. First of all, Mr. Bulj, you're very sweet and sweet to me, you and Mr. Pranic in your shirts, but maybe it's better if Zagora didn't give birth to you because what you said today and how much demagogue you're dealing with, I don't think that because you're here in the Assembly, you'll be better off there. As far as [[Intruder: Dear Minister...]] Here, okay, I accept, but you have to [[/Intruder: Dear Minister, I would only ask that you do not address the MPs in such a way.]] Then be there because you defend us in government [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] When Parliamentarians speak to us like that [[Intruder: Only you]] And all that they do together [[Don't worry.]] When we talk about the Regional Development Act, you must first know that it has nothing to do with the absorption of European funds, it has to do with indexation, it has to do with co-financing, so projects. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] However, with the absorption of funds, there is another Act, called the Law on an institutional framework on the control system of the European Funds. That's what you should know as a councilman. When we talk about how you presented your financial charts, this government has nothing to do with it, the SDP government, at that point, abolished, so the original incomes and took it into some other kind of, meaning, state budget finance, and not above all, local budgets. We're the ones who brought it back, two billion kunas of return revenue when we're talking about the Finance Act, we're absolutely not going to ignore it. My colleague Zdravko Marić and I have worked together on this, have 3 pillars relating to fiscal capacity, relating to regional development, relating to support, measures etc. What your table says in addition, you can ask, here, exactly and those who work on it in the Association of Cities, which and how they think and how they think and what they get, means, from this government they've got more than ever, we have to say, not only through the original incomes, but through these laws. What the Island Act has, I will repeat again what I said in the opening statement, which is the Islands Act absolutely has items of billions and 700, which this HS has been reported entirely, a billion thousand kuna investments in 2017. At our ministry's level, there's some of them all together when we add up about 140 million kunas. This is what these two laws will achieve now, cumulatively means capital investment in an assisted mountainous area. When we talk about the scope of the area, of course we will bring in within 60 days, as it says in the Law, the government will bring in, meaning, covering the mountainous mountainous area that will be, by the criteria that I have set absolutely something that is much better than before, that will enter and analyse the criteria that absolutely give for the right to say, that we have done a very good job. When we talk about it, when the SDP says that we need some kind of Christmas box at the Gorski kotar and so on, I think that you should go with us, you're our member of the Committee on Regional Development, you didn't say anything there, Mr. Mateo, but here, that box is full, finally and people are very pleased, because we were in the field the day before yesterday, so you can ask, the mayors and mayors, regardless of what options and how satisfied they are with the creation of the Law on mountainous areas and measures that we are planning. In particular, I can't believe it means this division, the funds, to the number of units of local self-government, to which it's being waste, means when the MP says 100 kn per unit will get mountainous mountainous areas, it's simply incorrect. And please do not deceive the Croatian public here in the representative body about your allegations, which are absolutely incorrect. Fully incorrect and completely irrelevant. I think that for a year, in this same place, we're going to talk about these laws, in a way that you might be pleasantly shocked by how many investments, in which area it's done through all the resistors. Logically, Croatia's roads will work one story, that another state-owned company will do a third story, that each ministry will intervene in a particular area. In particular, I would like Mr Pranic to have all this money in one place, as well as in our ministry, however, as other funds are absolutely responsible for other fellow ministers and I think that the corrected work that we are doing around the EU funds and regional development has certainly shown very good results so far. I know it's very difficult to admit that our party is growing exponentially and that we actually have the perfect right to choose HDZ's card instead of Mostov's or don't give God any other, but I think we should say openly for everything that we've done in regional development so far has not been seen, so 6 times already the means but ever, I think, in addition to this absolute data that we've presented in your proposal. What I want to say to end is that, I am sure that these funds will help track what needs to be prepared in all our areas, and that is where we mention intervention plans that we are doing from European funds, I don't see a reason, give me a reasonable reason for the budget, why we would spend state resources if we have European funds to do intervention plans in the war affected areas, what we have on the map of poverty of the World Bank, established as such an area in which a certain intervention should be done, you can look at all indicators of the EU funds, of course you can also say whatever you want 60% agreed jump of 480% in all indicators, speaks in favour of how our ministry works and how it will work better and better, in particular, in coordination with mayors, mayors. I think that indeed, there is no one in this sense to object, and in particular we are proud, I personally as Minister of Regional Development, with all the government meetings that we held outside the City of Zagreb, because most of us are not from the City of Zagreb, but are working in the City of Zagreb for these areas in all parts of Croatia, and I am going to be absolutely in favour of those decisions, which, not only then, are they taking part in the signing of contracts in these areas, and we really need to be exclusively and only proud of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122728	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122729	The violation of Rules of Procedure of the 238th Minister has been submitted to the lady and wished that Zagora should not have given birth to us, but she gave birth to us, and I know that's your problem. I'm glad you're here as a Slavonic, but I've heard a lot of things here. If I were a log, that I was a chap, that I don't know everything that was, Ambassador, not that I'm Miro Bulj from Sinj got a lot of votes, and as a parliamentary representative I have the right to fight. But how much damage you have done to this law, my end, it is my duty to speak as a parliamentary representative. You wish I hadn't been born in Dalmatian Zagora, you want sheep here, not shepherds, I know. It's a party wish list for you, that you only have raisers' hands, that you need sheep and not shepherds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122730	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I asked the Minister not to address such a dictionary, so there was no need for that, but well, you used your right. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122731	238. Art. 238. concerning the statement by the Minister about the birth of my Dalmatian Zagora, I will answer in a business manner like this with one sentence from the Dalmatian Fire, for more than 1,000 years this people have lived on this stone and every stone therefore, 100 times with the blood, but they did not give away. And... The Tatar, and the Turks, and the Milks, and the Germans, and the Hungarians, and every devil of hell, and the people, and their blood, are born again from the blood, and the roots are brought forth, and are made deeper into stone, and is now willingly made of stone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when he rests alive, he dies alone. It will be your destiny in the rural area of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122732	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. The same answer as my colleagues, Bulju, here you are, colleagues Peric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122733	The same Article. The 238th here is colleague Bulj calling all others and especially us from the ruling coalition sheep, which is quite inappropriate, if he feels so, we do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122734	I thank my colleague Peric, I have warned my colleagues of expression and we are moving on to the next line, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122735	I'm glad you brought out this model of funding, because it's just giving us a break from that model of sleeve movement. And somehow, here we have heard and how the people of Dalmatia behave, but also often tell us don't complain, the community from which I come is today a rich municipality and often they can object to me you don't know how we, even though those who know me best, know that I come from such a municipality, but that I bring a lot of money with my work, just these less developed municipalities, this municipality was the least developed municipality in Split-Dalmatia County in '90. years and 20 could divide the budget of that municipality, and now the second most developed and unable to understand politics means give us the funds for kindergarten to build it, give us the aunts and pay the mayor to work in that city, because we didn't work that way. Exactly how I managed to work in this organization that I do because unlike others, I did not ask the municipality to finance my salary, but I provided it from the European Funds and for another 5.6 people by 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122736	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Vranesh. Do you want to answer the Minister's question? No, thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122737	Thank you very much, ma'am. You've obviously taken this criticism on the side of the opposition regarding this law too personally. You're not in this place Regional Development Ministers to make it easy for you, on the contrary you're just about to find it difficult, and I know it's hard for you, but that's your part of the job. And don't ignore our experience at this level and what we know and don't ignore our criticisms when they're affirmative, especially if they're not even in a plenary debate but on committees and so don't insult us, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122738	Thank you very much, ma'am. You've obviously taken this criticism on the side of the opposition regarding this law too personally. You're not in this place Regional Development Ministers to make it easy for you, on the contrary you're just about to find it difficult, and I know it's hard for you, but that's your part of the job. And don't ignore our experience at this level and what we know and don't ignore our criticisms when they're affirmative, especially if they're not even in a plenary debate but on committees and so don't insult us, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122739	Final draft law amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 540, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 18 abstentions, have passed a law amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122740	Now, as we decided this morning, we will conduct a united debate on the following three points: Final bill on amendments to the law on regional development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 540, Final draft law on mountain-mounted areas, second reading, CZ No. 412 and Final Proposal for a Law on Supported Areas, Second Reading, PZ No. 410. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, and the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds Gabriela Žalac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122741	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives, respected assistants. Here I am glad that we have and that you have actually agreed that we will have a united debate on our three laws because we have already discussed much about it in the Croatian Parliament. By providing more money through the national budget and through European funds, we ensure a more balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. For regional development in 2017 and 2018 we invested 833 million kuna, in 3 years we will invest more than 1.3 billion kuna in balanced regional development, which means 6 times more than during the SDP government. In doing so, the emphasis on integrity is certainly on a package of laws that we have proposed right in the parliamentary procedure, it is the Law on Islands, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, the Law on assisted areas. We only have before us the remaining Vukovar Act, to amend and supplement the Regional Development Act and everything that we have in some way presented to you here. Over the next three years, a new law on assisted areas related to 304 units of local self-government and a little more than 1 million inhabitants has been planned nearly 300 million kunas. A law on mountain-mounted areas related to 85 units of local self-government and 350 thousand inhabitants has planned 117 million kunas. We respect the specificities of the various parts of Croatia and try to ensure adequate use of available financial resources to achieve fairer regional development, which we have also demonstrated through cooperation with the Croatian Community of Countys, Association of Cities and municipalities and the relocation of meetings of the Government in all parts of Croatia. By amending the law, we should not ignore the funding of local self-governments just received over a billion and 700 million kunas of original income, so on top of all that we had foreseen in the state budget. When we talk about the first point relating to our laws, the draft Act amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Draft of the Law was drawn up in the implementation of the actual conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 August, which adopted the proposal to reduce the number of agencies, institutions of funds, the foundation of companies and other legal persons with public authority and the competent authorities of the State Administration for the implementation of all activities in order to implement that act. On this basis, we decided to attach the Regional Development Agency to the Ministry of Regional Development with a deadline of 1 January 2019. One of the activities in this process is certainly related to the need to amend the provisions of the Law on Regional Development and the Government Regulation on what the Agency is doing and we are, in fact, under this Article 20 law which is authorised by the Agency to carry out activities that contribute to the achievement of the objectives of regional development policy in the planning documents, all of which we put through in fact the Ministry in a way. What is also important is to point out that the implementation of the law should also be adapted to the register of regional coordinators and local development agencies and in some ways the minister should appoint a commission on which accreditation will be carried out. We've already done all these advances and I expect that since we're in the same practical space there won't be any problems. The proposed amendments as I have said themselves are necessary and necessary in any case and for the implementation of this law there is no need to provide additional funding from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, we are taking over the equipment of the staff of the Agency found at the taken-over jobs and we think that this is a good solution. When we talk about the draft, i.e. the final proposal of the Law on hill-mounts in the Republic of Croatia, it is important to say that we are in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016/20 term. years predicted making all these laws. I would also mention one who was once in the intelligence of our ministry, which is now in the Central State Department for Housing Care, it is also the Housekeeping Act in assisted areas, which is part of a package of these laws. Our ministry has decided to draft a new Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. The problems of mountain-mounted areas have so far been regulated under the law that was passed in 2002, which in the meantime had 7 amendments and additions, and we have in some way decided to go into a new, completely new law. The category of mountainous mountainous areas was then entered by 45 units of local self-government that were distributed into 11 counties. The draft law was adopted at the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament after everything we discussed on our committees and everything we discussed with the public. The aim of the new law is, surely, to enhance the competitiveness and achievement of our own development potentials in mountain-mounted areas. The law is a legal framework that unites the matter of mountainous mountainous areas. What is very important to you Assembly representatives is that through the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and through the Law on assisted areas for the first time since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, we will have a law that unites capital investments of all so-called resors and state and public enterprises in these areas, as the Island Act has for example for many years, and then we will know absolutely all the information about it and inform you once a year in the Croatian Parliament, which is how we are actually implementing these measures. In the preparation and implementation of measures, programmes and projects for the development of mountainous mountainous mountainous areas, they will participate and participate primarily in the units of local self-government that come from this area but of course other central authorities of the state administration and public legal authorities that can certainly contribute to the development of these areas as part of their portfolios. Our ministry will coordinate and monitor the effective implementation of all measures and, of course, determine, determine in what way and at which point we will in some way monitor the effects for each of these individual areas that we have here, I repeat again through the Law on Islands surely presented well at a meeting of the Government that we had recently on Hvar. How much investments are in each individual year in which sectors, which resolve how the effects are achieved through these laws. With the final proposal of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, we have set out a programme for the development of mountain and mountainous areas to identify concrete measures, projects to promote the development of mountainous and mountainous areas, holders of their implementation, implementation and resources, and the methodology for monitoring the implementation and evaluation of, of course, individual measures. This programme will combine all activities that will be carried out in mountainous and mountainous areas, which stem precisely from this law, as well as regulations governing the economy of social and demographic policies, strengthening administrative capacity. All key stakeholders contributing to the development of the mountain-mounted area, as they best recognise the needs and specificities of their area, will participate in the development of this programme, i.e. in the development of concrete measures and activities that take place in the mountain-mounted area. In the State budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of our ministry and it is important to say the activity called, the development of mountain-mounted areas, which will also fund these programmes and projects that contribute to just strengthening economic and social cohesion and the achievement of the concept of sustainable development through the following measures, which is to improve the municipal and social infrastructure in the mountain-mountan area, remove the consequences of the difficult climate conditions in the mountain-mountan area, prepare project technical documentation planned to finance from the European Structural Investment Funds, prepare infrastructure as a prerequisite for investment and economic recovery of mountain-mountic areas, promote competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship through support for activities that are of importance for economic development and ultimately subsidisation of persons with deficit interests and persons who can contribute to improving the quality of life in mountainareas. It is also foreseen by law to develop and implement an integrated territorial investment programme that we can now see in our operational programmes. We believe that just in order to prepare the targeted calls for this area, we can, together with our Gorski Kotar and other parts of the Republic of Croatia that belong to the mountain-mounted area, certainly prepare concrete projects that are important to them. What we predict by making this law is also a Croatian mountain product aimed at promoting production and plasma and promoting the original and innovative products of these areas. We have very good experience with the project Croatian island product, which for many years our ministry has funded and it actually means encouraging entrepreneurship in these areas. When we talk about how we also want to introduce a mountain card, public administration as a means of authentication based on which residents of the mountain-mounted area will exercise the right to privileged public transport for natural persons residing in the mountain-mounted area within the county line traffic and the privileged use of raw materials and natural resources of the local area. What is important to say, and we also have a long number of years, and we think it is also important in this part to support, and this is a special criterion for selecting projects, when we talk about supporting projects in the mountainous and mountainous area that are planning to apply to the European Structural Investment Funds. It is also not necessary to ignore the measure relating to sustainable production and consumption, thus encouraging the use of green and sustainable criteria in the public procurement process. Also with the aim of reducing resource consumption, environmental pollution, strengthening of the original domestic product. Encouragement of activities as a measure of importance for the economic development of mountain-mounted areas, which is woodworking industry and production, ecotourism, cultural tourism, health tourism, production based on the tradition of mountain-mounted areas. Also production and processing of products marked Croatian mountain product is something our ministry plans. The new law will redefine and cover mountainous areas among other things. In order to identify the range of mountain-mounted areas, we will apply a multi-criteral selection method in which geomorphological, climate, demographic and infrastructure criteria are evaluated. The total number of points achieved in units of local self-government is a composite indicator, and the maximum score for all the criteria scored is 6, and the limit for inclusion in the mountain-mounted area is 2.5 points. The status of mountain and mountain areas within the meaning of this law cannot be achieved by units of local self-government which are covered by a special regulation governing the development of the island and which, by their territory, extends along the seashore and have a population density greater than 20 inhabitants per km square. Local self-government units classified according to the development index in three groups under the provisions of the new law. The first group consists of units that have the status of the assisted area, i.e. the 1st to 4th group, the second group of units that according to the development index are located in the 3rd and 4th quarter above the average rating units of local self-government, which is, of course, related to the Regional Development Act, i.e. the 5th and 6th groups and 3rd groups, which are units that are located in 1, 2nd quarter above the average rating units, which are the 7th and 8th groups according to the current development index, which is still in force for the next two years. The necessary financial resources for the implementation of this law, the means to implement programmes and projects that will come from the mountain-mounte law will be provided in the state budget and I am pleased that in this very Croatian Assembly we have actually made in some way and the decision to increase the funds originally provided for in the mountain-mountan area, 117 million kuna is certainly not a negligible amount when we talk about the implementation of this law and, of course, it is always worth adding all that the mountainous mountainous area is returned through the Law on the financing of units of local regional self-government. Finally, let me also present to you the Final Draft of the Law on the Supported Area, we have discussed this very much, and I am pleased that we have introduced it into the mandate of this Government, that it is no longer part of the Law on Regional Development as Chapter 5, but is now a special law which certainly deserves the special attention of this Government. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to develop the status of assisted areas has acquired 304 units of local self-government in which nearly 1/3 of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives. The problem of assisted areas was previously referred to in earlier times in the chapter of the Regional Development Act, however, the draft bill was adopted at the 9th session of the HS and in accordance with the conclusion of the HS, we followed all the comments and proposals, and we prepared our Final Draft of the Law on Supported Areas. The aim of this Law is to provide the assisted area with a basis for strengthening competitiveness and achieving its own development potential. We believe that special attention should be paid to these areas, which we have already shown through competitions relating to both the state budget and, of course, European funds when we talk about how to help these regions and give them some advantage in how to achieve their own potential through the development projects they have prepared. The law is a legal framework that unites the matter of the assisted area, regulates, of course, other specific regulations. With the draft final draft Law on Supported Areas, our Ministry has prescribed that we adopt a Programme for Sustainable Social and Economic Development of Supported Areas, and do not forget, parliamentary MPs, I ask you, that all previous laws, when we talk about regional development policy, have prescribed the adoption of a programme of concrete, etc., have never, in any term of office, nor have I asked you to respect what this Government and this Ministry now wants to do finally in the context of what we have already achieved through concrete measures. I am deeply convinced that in the coming years, in the full sense of that word, we will achieve the potential of these undeveloped areas. The programme of sustainable social and economic development of assisted areas will define concrete measures within the administrative areas of competence and other central authorities of the state administration and projects to encourage the development of assisted areas, operators and implementation activities, the monitoring methodology for the implementation and evaluation of individual programmes. I think it should certainly be pointed out that everything the programme contains will be applied and implemented in the assisted area resulting from this Law, but also from regulations, of course, which regulates everything that is in some way important for the development of undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia. All the key stakeholders that contribute to the development of the assisted area, since they best recognise needs and specificities, I think they should participate in the preparation together with us of this Programme and develop all the measures, and for this very reason I don't think that the Programme should be part of the Law, I think that it should be adopted on the basis of the year, when we see how these individual measures should be reflected, look exactly at the implementation. What is most important is that in the state budget in our Ministry of Activity and the development of assisted areas from which these programmes and projects that contribute above all, the sustainable development of the local community, will be defined in a division called activity, meaning, the development of assisted areas, the improvement of municipal and social infrastructure in assisted areas, the preparation of documentation, the preparation of investment infrastructure, the creation of conditions for raising living standards, the improvement of infrastructure in areas populated members of national minorities. The development and implementation of the Integrated Territorial Investment Programme, we have already shown that through and through the European Funds, here at the government's session in Karlovac, a new coverage of the areas for the most underdeveloped part, after Slavonia, it is a safe area of Slunj and parts along with, therefore, the border. We have made a decision on the Sunj intervention plan and a wider area, which is absolutely significant under the poverty map, lagging behind in development. Speaking of which, I can also announce on Monday that we will go to Imotski and mean, the Imotski region also provide an intervention plan to help in this area that we have talked about several times at all possible levels and indeed, we respect all the needs of the terrain and we will try in all possible ways to prepare projects that will make people live there, if they have moved back to those areas, because I think they are sure to trace what they are doing in the EU in some parts that must have suffered the same thing from what we call eviction after exactly these plans and programmes have returned their population to that area. When we talk about the specific criteria of project selection, then I must always go back to how in developed parts of the Republic of Croatia then they rated these precisely the criteria as bad. Why 20% more points are awarded in the assisted area through all European competitions from all operational programmes, why through the European Funds and the Fund for the Co-financing of our Ministry are allocated more funds for these areas, but we believe that this is the only way we can contribute to the equal development of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about employment in assisted areas, encouraging the employment of persons of those professions who contribute to improving the quality of life in the assisted area will certainly be in the focus of interest and, of course, tax relief for assisted areas. Taxes carrying out an independent activity in assisted areas may exercise the right to support small value in accordance with the Income Tax Act and the Profit Tax Act. It should not be disregarded in the Law on Supported Areas and the measure called Nature Protection Fee, the right to cash compensation, from the sale of a ticket to visit a protected area, can be achieved by units of local self-government up to 6% net, and units of local self-government that are located in the last quarter above the average-ranked units up to 5.5% net and which have a protected area in their territory. The necessary financial resources are of course large, we have therefore provided 94 million and 600,000 kuna in relation to the original proposal, in addition to this, means for the development of assisted areas and other activities called improving infrastructure in the areas of populated, members of national minorities also in the next budgetary period, means in projections for the next three years. Inside the budget... I have already said how much for assisted areas, through the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, billions and 700 million kuna, this government has put into the original revenues of these units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, I would just say something that I forgot to mention at the Law on the mountainous mountainous area. We therefore increased the forest contribution in the second law which, of course, is relevant for the mountainous mountainous area to 10% and that is something that the Gorans certainly welcome and want to see in the next period. In addition to these funds, I would say that it is safe to see through the programmes and measures we are working on only in the following year when we accumulate in 2019 and add up all the results of this law which will then mean exactly reporting on capital investments in these areas because the Croatian Parliament has never received that information and the Government of the Republic of Croatia how much exactly the investment is coming from which the funds are right in the assisted and mountainous area. I am deeply convinced that it is this legislative regulation that we are going to contribute to the management of all information about each sector, about every resolution that we are planning and how we are planning to do in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122742	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by almost everyone who's a representative who's in the hall, so we'll go as they say. The first came from a respected representative, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122743	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I have come forward with a brief replica on the subject of amending the law on regional development is one fact that it is really a matter of technical changes, but I would like to talk about content in this replica. And this government composition is not sufficiently efficient and successful in withdrawing funds from EU funds. There's a lot of reasons for that. I'll list everything from my point of view a few. First, there is sub-optimation from local to state level. Secondly, in certain ministries, people are definitely acting overseas and very, very inertly, and that's what I was talking about today. The third thing, where I think you as the minister of a very important portfolio, will have very bad support from other colleagues in other ministries and amendments to this law don't really give us the guarantee that in a year's time, and we'll all be successful. Your success is a success for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for all craftsmen and for all entrepreneurs, and I wish it to you, but I'm afraid that the amendments to the law will not achieve that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122744	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122745	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I do not know if you are disappointed that in this time of the law, the laws in which two-thirds of the forgotten Croatia are concerned. We searched this morning, but the President of the Parliament didn't agree and the majority of Parliament agreed to discuss it in the morning. Unfortunately, and many MPs therefore... Today they are on the advent, watching the lights of Zagreb shine and they forgot where they came from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the most important law for two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia. That's the first one. The second is that your ministry has made the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, and we don't know at all which units of local self-government and which areas will, by new indexation, or as you say, fall into that area, which means that it's a mockery. We have no measure, no measure we expect. And most importantly, withdraw this law because your ministry is doing major damage to the Republic of Croatia. We were last to withdraw funds in the EU, Malta has overtaken us, we are at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122746	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122747	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, in the area of the mountainous mountain part of Croatia currently live in 190 thousand Croats, which is 12 thousand less than the last census in 2011. This law has a 40 million kuna financial envelope. I tried hard and together with the City Association made a financial analysis of all the cities in the mountainous mountainous area of 2014, in '15, '16, '17, '18. We all lost 564 million kuna in parallel to 2014; this is by execution; you can ask Minister Marić at the Ministry of Finance. And if you tell us now that the compensation measures are equal, they are not, they are total if you look at income tax revenue and all compensation measures for the existing 45 cities 390 million kuna, following the execution of aid and income tax in 2014 amounted to 466 million kuna. That's 76 million kuna less. So not that they are, they add 40 million kuna, but these 76 million kunas are not returned. And we're talking about life in the mountainous mountainous area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122748	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122749	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Minister of this legislative package is, by me, the most controversial Law on mountainous mountain areas that is non-transparent, discriminatory and completely unambitious. So if we look at how many people live in that area you say each of them will get 100 kuna. Do you really think that 100 kuna will prevent demographic disaster and ensure the return of inhabitants to mountainous mountainous areas? It's like a gift from New Year's Eve to the residents of the Gorski Kotar, for example. One box wrapped with colorful paper, a colorful ribbon, and you give it to them, and when they roll that colorful paper around, they open the box that they find in it, nothing. Here, give me one measure and the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas that will allow you to have a young doctor with a family and two children come to Gorski Kotar and work in medical general medicine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122750	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122751	Thank you very much, dear minister, I would disagree with my colleague Jovanovic, but I would say that the Law on Supported Areas is significantly harder, looking at if you were to distribute the funds you provide, which are not mentioned in the law, then we would come into an ideal one situation, so that each local self-government would get something less than 400,000 kuna. 400,000 kuna for economic development, for demographic reconstruction, for the improvement of infrastructure, for all possible measures of 400,000 kuna, the entire 400,000 kuna per local self-government. I think it's about looking at all those measures that are listed inside, and it's not the content of this law, there's everything else piled up, housing is one other law, financial balancing is one other law, it's the third law. We can't put everything under this law, but we're looking at what this law is about. Maximum, if everything is equal, everyone gets a large and small 400,000 kuna that will solve everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122752	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122753	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, when you spoke about the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, you said that the basis of the criteria changes the scope of this area, i.e. it will be greater. In the communication of you or the Proposer on committees with the public, we talk about the number of 85 units of local self-government, but as parliamentary representatives, we do not know which these are, these are local self-government units and this can lead to some lack of transparency in this context. Furthermore, this law does not change the criterion of coverage based on the boundaries of local self-government units, so let's say. One town of Ozalj, which is low in most areas, still has a 30% mountain-mounted mountain-mounted area above 1000 metres above sea level, so it is for Croatian occasions a large mountain of Žumberak where it has settlements above 500 feet above sea level, but I am afraid that the town of Ozalj They won't be part of that mountain-mounted area. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122754	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122755	I thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, I propose that we immediately declare all of Croatia undeveloped and pass only one single law. Because now you've united three laws, so we have a law on hill-mounted, regional development, islands, assisted areas, we have a program for Slavonia, and you've announced countless more programs, and now I'm setting up what's the point of all this. Because what Mr. Paninic said with 400,000 kunas if we divide into those 40 million into 85 cities, we need the law to do that. Turns out what Minister Divjak just said that we are world champions in the printing of the law and it turns out that this government is just printing, printing, but we are also world champions in more complicated things. So let us compare ourselves with the example of organized countries at our committee's thematic session was an example of Switzerland, Austria and France, where these undeveloped areas have become a hit. for life. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122756	Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative and vice president of this house, Cynthia Hajdaša Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122757	We can agree that in this.../incomprehensible law regarding regional development that we can have different approaches, so theoretical and practical and scientific and that most of us will say regional development theorists are talking about something called territorial capital. So, something quite new, and I note that in the proposal, therefore, these laws concerning regional and local development, this law on mountainous and mountainous areas, in fact, are so slightly unambitious and that little from scientific and professional perspectives are unambitious. Because no EU country therefore has a uniform view of local regional development, but is trying precisely because of its own historical heritage and also because of its different demographic, economic trends, some solutions have their own. So I urge you to try to think about settlements instead of JLS because a very unfair system will be created where some municipality or city will be in the mountainous and mountainous areas and others. Because of some other characteristics, they won't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122758	Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122759	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, here I am first grateful for the intervention plan for the city of Imotski, for all the imotski municipalities, it is not about selectivity, we also talked about Vrgorec, Vrlica, Sinj, Trilj, so I am grateful for the increase in funds related to the amendment we worked with Mr. Šipić, colleague of Puh. Of course, if we had all our colleagues here tonight from the mountain-mounted area so that these catalogs would be big and talk about the hard life and management in those areas, but we need to look at the picture wider and what you were saying in your presentation. We forget that even with tax packages, we thought of such things, we forget about the Taxation Act that we were thinking about line transportation of students who do not have an economic price, so I welcome this mountain card that will also help with line transportation as well as Croatian mountain product. So, all the amendments and additions to these laws that serve the improvement I welcome, of course the improvements can be large and larger but we are depended on fiscal capacity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122760	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122761	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, and we all know that overnight, of course, we will not change everything, but these measures are a major shift in order for the undeveloped areas to reach it. We see that in the next three years, the Law on Supported Areas for 304 units has provided more than 300 million kuna, for that mountainous mountainous mountainous one, so that 85 units are 117 million kunas more, which is certainly not negligible if we take into account that there is a project of Slavonia where 8.1 billion contracted funds of which, here I can only say in my county so far 885 million kuna, are certainly the shifts that we all want to make those undeveloped landscapes faster and go, and improve the standard of citizens in these parts, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122762	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122763	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, in the opening argument, the reasons for which the Law is adopted are the basis for the Law which was adopted in 2002 with the application of the year 2003 and it is very clear, meaning, by the Law of the Municipality and the cities that have that status, they are taxingly stated in the Law itself. Why didn't this bill of law, the new Law, go by these principles, by that principle, not in a way that we here as it could have been concluded that we were bidding whether this or that municipality had a right or not. The criteria clearly defined, that is one thing, but precisely for the very reason that I believe that through the discussions that would be here, they would be far more relevant and that for those programmes that the Government or the Ministry must do, they would already have a very large number and certain data, and I believe that they would be derived from certain and measures. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122764	The next replica of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122765	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, dear Minister, we hear that the great criticism of the amount of funding provided for the implementation of these two Investment Laws in the mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas, and I am sure, not only us, but you would be far happier that these funds are also significantly higher. However, as colleagues often speak about the Island Law and believe that there is much more resources for the islands, I would visit here that, when we looked at the statements on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, we could see that the Ministry singled out 181 million kunas, and a total of projects worth 1.7 billion kuna, which means almost 10 times more. It is also foreseen in these laws that, with the Ministry of Regional Development, the other national central authorities invest each one depending on their area and mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122766	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122767	Here, I'll relate to exactly what my colleague, Martinchev-Juritch, said. So here, I think it comes from the wrong premises, so this is where the number of municipalities, cities, etc. is divided. with the means that are provided here, which is wrong. So these are the initial funds that need to be encouraged to withdraw the funds that are exactly, among other things, and this, by borrowing eiba, where they withdraw for part of the national funds or co-financing of that national part, so that these municipalities and cities have quality programmes and withdraw additional funds. So it's actually an initial thing to encourage all of us to work on real projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122768	The next replica of the respected representative of Sanja Putice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122769	Thank you, Vice President HS. Well esteemed Minister, from this law package that you present to HS today you can see how much this government is actually seeking a balanced and even development of the Republic of Croatia as far as possible, and this is seen by your constant communication with Croatian mayors, mayors and mayors in which you are reviewing their needs. However, I would like to point out here that this Law, this package of the Law, has nevertheless found ways for certain municipalities and areas in the Republic of Croatia to recover some of the funds that they have projected in their budgets at some point when these areas have lost the status of special state care. This is one of the ways that you helped them anyway because when they were planning their budgets, at one point they ran out of funds, and of course by changing these valorizations related to the development index. In any case, I believe that the regional coordinators you're going to appoint will also bring that role that will be in contact with the Ministry and with all the needs of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122770	Thank you. Now it's on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists, I think, colleague Bulj wants, colleague Pranic, please. Yeah, yeah, yeah, and which one of you? Okay, I realized that one of you on behalf of the club was looking for a break, so I'm this one, so I told my colleague Bully first, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122771	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. Dear colleagues and fellow ministers. We suggest you withdraw this law which is a very important law that has come the last day, the last point, when we come before the constitutional break, by the Constitution prescribed by our Parliament. This is a very important law. We haven't solved anything with this law, and the interest of the representative who's here, you've seen in the replicas that very few MPs support. Once again I point out, withdraw this law that solves nothing, this law is essentially just a pirate. This law is proof that your Ministry has no intention of helping our people. You are referring to the Government, our underdeveloped areas, you are calling for the Governments in Split, so everything you said in Split, I have given the amendments to the budget, nothing is accepted. What you are invited to, and five times you have opened the same projects in Dalmatinska Zagora, as well as in other areas, Ravce, Drvenik. I once again ask you fellow MPs to agree with your clubs, you ministers withdraw this Act where you do not give a single measure, you have not resolved this Act, and which, local... They fall into hill-mounted areas, and you give this Act, and it's not funny, this is about 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Every visit you make in a particular part, an undeveloped part of the Republic of Croatia, is a hill-mounted area, only a full number of buses and crying parents at bus stations, not in maternity homes, we no longer have them, this is a serious law, and these fellow parliamentary representatives, who are calling for those areas, and they are not here in the Assembly, should at least be disgraced, disgraced. I'm looking for the ministers, withdraw this law that last nailed the box 2/3 of Croatia, is not meaningful. Give one measure you've given constructively here, not one, not a triba mountain card here, but obviously just a HDZ card,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122772	Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Of course I'll take a break, so I'll see you in 18.28 minutes. SESSION Interrupted at 18.20 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.30 HOURS]] If not, then I open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be given time by colleagues Bulj, Pranic and Panenić, I do not know which order, first of all, my colleague Pranic, I see, is ready with the papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122774	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is not only Zagreb and what is seen from the Upper City, Croatia is Dalmatia Zagora and Lika and Slavonia and Gorski Kotar and Slavonia. And all of our citizens under the Constitution should have equal rights and living conditions. Both the citizen in Vrgorec and Delnice and Lepoglav and Orahovica, as well as someone living in the center of Zagreb, and we all know that this is not true in Croatia, and it should be the policy of regional uniform development. We know that many Assembly MPs come from an assisted and mountain-mounted area, but here, it is unfortunate that today in the assembly when two really important laws are being discussed for the mountain-mounted and assisted area of Croatia, it is two-thirds of Croatia's surface, many parliamentary representatives are not even present, and many probably forget the end from which they come here to vote in Zagreb, most often on Fridays. In the area of the hill-mount of Croatia, from which I come, currently lives 190 thousand Croats. That's 12,000 less than the 2011 census. It's a city your size, for me next-door Makarska, like he's moved out. Indeed, the mountainous and mountainous areas are living the most difficult and climate and vertical decomposition of the terrain are both unfavourable for people and investors, so it is no wonder why we have such demographic defeating numbers, emigration, I say, 12 thousand people, since 2011-2017. Currently, according to the bill, we do not even know who enters the mountain-mounted area, but we do know the financial envelope of the law, within the framework of the proposed budget and the adopted budget for 2019 with projections 2020 and 2021. It's about 40 million kunas. I often say, how much money, how much music. Since we do not have some big money, music will be less and less in the area of the mountain-mounted part of Croatia. Seven times the law changed and every time it got worse and worse. I said in a replica to your exposure to expose a fan who keeps repeating himself here in a assembly about the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and compensatory measures. I'll thank you first and join the cities for one comprehensive analysis of all the cities in the mountainous and mountainous area. It means an analysis from 2014-2018 with results up to 11 months. 2018 and projections and when we look cumulatively in 2014 our citizens have had 466 million, 2015 through local budgets from the mountainous and mountainous areas. 313 million, 2016. 289 million, 2017. 308 million, now according to the 390 million projection. I do not know, that someone convinces me that 390 larger numbers from 2014 were 466 million, so we are still short for these 76 million and these are not short cities but our citizens do not have 76 million kuna available through various investment projects and investment plans of local self-government units. This injustice has not been corrected, and in the new law on the mountainous and mountainous area, we have indeed expected much more. The draft itself as a draft may be whatever, but as I said in the financial envelope of that law, it's only 40 million kuna. I know that there are a few parliamentary representatives from the parliamentary majority who come from the mountainous and mountainous areas, and I really don't understand that I can't press both the government and the prime minister and the finance minister to say that they live in the mountainous and mountainous area, so I'll also tell the assisted area. You have 500 juniors less in primary schools this year. It is certainly not in Zagreb. It must be in the rural area of Croatia. An assisted and mountainous area. You have 2600 less students in high school. It is certainly not in Zagreb either. It must be in rural areas, when I'm talking about mountain and mountainous and assisted areas. I really don't know what to prove to someone anymore and how many people need to be evicted in order to really implement regional development policy through national means. You're the Ministry of Regional Development, we don't discuss here with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry, I don't know, traffic. We are discussing with the Ministry of Regional Development and it should finally be a policy of regional development to ensure a greater envelope for undeveloped areas, that our citizens under the Constitution have the same rights as the citizens of urban areas. Otherwise, this is just one follow-up to urbanisation, uneven development and eviction. The eviction of both mountainous and mountainous areas and the eviction of the assisted area, and the paradox of our system, how regional development is carried out in Croatia. Somebody explain to me, here you can explain to me as a minister, I don't mind that the islands in the 2019 budget got in the projection of 111 million kuna. In fact, they deserve it. But look what is the factor that defines regional diversity, or where a policy of equality should be defined. It's a development index. According to which the index of development of municipalities and cities from the island are all 7 and 8 groups of development indices, and these cities that are in the mountainous mountainous area from which they are the development index, 1, 4 groups most often, I don't know, Sinj 5 or 6. And those islands, i.e. cities and municipalities, units of local self-government and citizens who live better because they have a larger index of development, in our programme of your ministry, they've secured 111 million kn, and we've got 40 million kn here for mountaineering. Where is the logic of regional development in Croatia? Where's the logic of someone explaining it to me, it just doesn't make sense, and there's no reason? Because individual parliamentary representatives, who come from this area, issue this area when they come to Zagreb, briefly and clearly, some are not here or in the assembly, and they praise the media that they have provided, I do not know 10 million kn, 10 million kn. And not to mention the new law, to cover the mountainous mountainous area doubles. With 45 cities now, the new draft bill will be 85. The mountain card, the mountain card, I spoke for this speaker on the first draft where it wasn't, and I'm glad you respected it, but you threw out the legal person again. If we're going to see that the population stays in the mountainous mountainous area, based on construction, foot-and-mouth, lighting, roads, they won't. It will only be held if we can attract investors or provide support, because it is not the same to invest in Vrgorac in Delnice, Vrgorski, Legoglav, Orahovica as in Split or in the centre of Zagreb, but in Croatia it is the same. And then we wonder why the rural landscapes move out. They move out and move out even more because math and facts are devastating. You just don't live off your feet. And I'm going to look back at my exposure to another problem, that's the problem with preschool education. You have an agreement in Barcelona signed by the European Commission that 90% of children should go to kindergarten. There's an abnormal difference between urban and rural areas. In Zagreb, this quota has been met. Look at the rural areas, how many children go to kindergartens, if kindergartens are raised in institutions, our children in the rural area do not have the same conditions as children in urban areas. A new kindergarten will be built through the European Fund for the European Development Fund, as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, which it leads, although it should be under your portfolio, and say who will pay for the aunts in kindergarten. Aunts in kindergartens as far as the educator is concerned, I'm talking, not talking, now about the programs I've been doing in Vrgorec for 30 months. if it goes to the burden of the local self-government unit. Only according to projections should there be 5300 new educators. It's $95,000, the annual salary of a single raiser, that's £503 million. 503 million kn, already supported areas to finance. So from which they will finance it. Take at the Ministry of Finance cumulatively, what are the revenues of individual municipalities from the rural area and from the assisted area. Why are we lying to ourselves? Deliver the tables to see how many individual municipalities they have. I know, a neighboring community is building a new kindergarten. When the chief realized that he had to do now, hire 10 new aunts, he realized that he was making a noose around his neck and that's Croatia's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122775	The respected MP Panenic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122776	Thank you very much for having the Minister with his associates. I'd like to mention only one addition to my colleague Pranic. If we look, if that card were in the Law of Supported Areas, then we'd all have it, we'd have a ID ID on the document, if it turns out we just don't have it, we can't and we won't achieve it with these laws being passed. It's not the law, the text, we'll agree, okay, but when we look at the financial background, then we'll definitely say it's not enough. If we were to work on every 100 million kn, some law, which we would have in this 100 and some billion, how much the state budget is, then we would make hundreds, thousands of new laws, like, if there was a law for every 100 million that would be invested. And right at the very beginning of the law, what is encouraged? Economical, all the development, all the way, it's about this kind of artistic, productive form, but I'm afraid that neither this economic one that's listed, nor would there be enough 400 thousand kn in one municipality, and maybe we could help one economy, one family agricultural economy, put on good feet, and then we'd say, here at least we helped someone. If there are 304 units of local self-government, from assisted areas, which will be users, means 304 OPGs and we can say, we did something, we have real help, we can sign contracts with them, we can show that they've succeeded, but if we're saying that we're going to help everyone, no, it's certainly not going to be helpful with this law. It's questionable actually, when on this whole thing, how is it going to be held? 26. where it is said that the Republic will encourage detention, return of displaced residents, with 400 thousand kn, so they are for a much larger amount, which they want to achieve for themselves, their families, went out, and we will repay for 400 thousand kn. How much? Maybe he'll bring back 304 families. So let's say, we brought 304 families back here, so times 4 so here we got a lot more. But somewhere we have to figure out where we're going with that money, because this way, with 100 million kn, I think it's just Jesus who did it in his life, I don't think we're up to it, and we definitely need to give up on those thoughts. What bothers me especially in this law, this law, it's not a roof law, it's a law of 100 million kn, a law that should have defined, which means new funds will be employed, how it will define development, how it will help, and here somehow it seems to me like when a Bosnian pot is being made, it's just a helping pot, we put things in there, so let's say we have the law. We're going to put some EU funds on it, as my colleague Bulj said, anyway, but a little welcome, and then we're going to do a little bit of budget work, a little bit, but a little bit, a little bit, we get to it at the end when it's all over too little. So not enough, not too much, just too little. And then this whole law in its title helped just says that he's under what's enough to really help someone. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. I'm kind of getting this part right here in my eyes that refers to the support of the national smaller ones, and somehow I get the impression that certain areas of local self-government that are inhabited by members of national minorities have not been equally respected in development. We're showing it by this law. But I haven't read anywhere in an explanation that these local self-governments have been damaged. Who damaged them? Could it be the leaders who didn't lead? But this way, if we're saying that the Republic of Croatia has not systematically helped such areas in the past, then I think we've put on a big crime scene. I hope that by the time you vote, you'll give an explanation of who's damaged, why it's damaged, who's guilty, why we now have to make up for that part. My colleague Bulj will be finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122777	And last on behalf of the Club of Representatives will speak the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122778	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, in our time of arrival, less and less in our hearths, in my Dalmatian Zagora, Lici, Ravni Kotari, Skradinska zazadja, Skradin, Sibenik rear, Drniš, Knin, in Slavonia your ministers will be less and less and less Christmas Eve. There's more and more of the old population. It's not the child's pay at the maternity homes, it's the bus station, the parents' crying, the grandfathers' escorts, their grandkids' grandkids and they're going to get their whole families back. And this is a strategic national issue two-thirds of Croatia's colleagues and colleagues are empty. I don't know if you see it from Zagreb, I don't know when you're surrounded by mayors in Split, elsewhere, do you see it? What do your party colleagues tell you? But the fact is that our villages, our cities, our municipalities became villages of ghosts, villages, cities of ghosts, there's no one around. I said it would be good for you to withdraw this law. First of all, this is not the time to talk about this law that is unprepared, which is PR-ovski and which promotes you and you do not have good results in your ministry, we are lastly at the bottom of the EU, Malta has overtaken us after withdrawing funds from the EU. I expected from you and from fellow parliamentary representatives who came from these areas to point out to you, that the lights in Parliament or in the government or on an advent in Zagreb, so as not to make you look at reality. And the reality is that national security is at risk, that territory isn't enough to have a state. A territory without people is not a state. I've been in Munich recently, more of our people out there in Munich, 40 grand more now in Munich for the last four years, that's what he's telling you, only in Munich is he talking. Minister, these two laws are unprepared, you have no measure to help the areas we're talking about. It increases the range of mountainous mountainous areas by more than double, 85 will be, double. Praise some parliamentary representatives that you have increased by 10 million in the budget of funds for these areas, 85 by 45, will grow. So they're going to get less mountainous mountain areas, more numbers and voting machines are needed but this isn't good. You're talking about the mountain card, that she needs but the fact that she's with you... a much more needed HDZ party card or coalition partners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, counterpart Pranic stressed, a lot of nogostop, a lot of asphalting. There are some municipalities to see exactly election cycles paved. They need jobs, not this money to local self-government, we have more municipalities and cities and counties than America, together the United States and China. This is not a solution, we do not have the possibility of kindergarten and this is the obligation Croatia has. We don't have the opportunity because it's not just a kindergarten, a kindergarten is a educational institution. 17X fewer children have the opportunity to reach higher education if they do not have an organised kindergarten. No more sheep, no more shepherds or shepherds, according to a HDZ colleague who makes fun of them, no more. Why isn't he here? Because it is enough for the government to take pictures in Split, Osijek, Sisak, and that is not enough Minister to withdraw this law that has no measure to be addressed. It's not funny, give me one measure that gave you the opportunity to develop any area in the Republic of Dalmatia, from the Mountain Kotar, any part of it. It's not funny, you think it's funny, but it's not funny to the people in that area. I'm saying it as a parliamentary representative, I have this obligation to speak as a elected parliamentary representative, it's my duty and it can't be funny to you, and these laws, freely, I don't know, your piar, you can call 1,000 media Go ahead, get them back to you, get them back wherever you want, and you'll have an amendment in the morning. [[Intruder: Thank you]] You'll have an amendment, I don't know if you'll be able to call the government. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122779	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives of the HDZ on behalf of which time will be shared by respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev and respected representative Lončar. First respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122780	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for the Law will support the HDZ Club. Each Croatian government has so far announced a reduction in administration and an increase in efficiency. But that's what it's been all about until now, only in theory. A number of the Agency were founded, some of which were fewer than 10 employees, some of which had over 700 employees, some of the 70 employees had directors, 7 assistant directors, 13 department heads, 37 department heads, which means, of 70 employees, even 59 executive employees, not to say that they were salaries, bonuses and different from the Agency to the Agency, and only this government made a decision on 2 August which accepts the proposal to reduce the number of agencies, funds, institutions, foundations, foundations, companies and other legal persons with public authority. In fact, the Agency for Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia has taken certain actions in implementing the programmes and activities precisely for the needs of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds at their request. Administrative oversight of the Agency's work has been carried out by the Ministry and it is perfectly logical and normal for the Agency to be given to the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds by its abolition and all its employees, as well as its obligations and rights. This proposal for a Law as well as amending the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Ministry and other Central Authorities of the State Administration shall regulate the termination of the Agency’s work and the taking over of business in the work of the Ministry. This rationalises the system, establishes full compliance with the needs of modern regional policy, as well as the achievement of effective coordination of regional coordinators. Of course, all the staff of the Agency will be taken over and it is necessary to harmonise the Sub-legislative acts in the section which prescribes the powers and obligations of the Agency. I would also point out, given that criticism was heard yesterday when we talked about amendments to the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration, that the amount foreseen by the state budget for staff expenditure was increased in the following year. It should be said that in 2019, for staff expenditures affecting the surplus or shortfall of income will amount to slightly more than 24 billion kuna and that this is less than it was for the implementation of the 2017 budget when 26 billion and 700 million kuna were spent. The total amount for employees wants to be higher in the part relating to staff expenditure, financed by the European Funds and for persons working exclusively on European projects. Furthermore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Mountain Mountain Areas will also support the HDZ Club. What I would like to talk more about today is the differences that we have in relation to first reading, and we should commend everything that has been done in relation to that proposal we had on our first reading benches. Meanwhile, as agreed, the EU's Mother Committee on Regional Development and Funds also organised a thematic session. All that is said at this thematic session is now in this final proposal of the Law. So, colleagues who say there are no measures, we have to say number one, that exactly the measures that have been taken and the bill of the first reading has been completed and that the measures and what needs to be done to contribute to the development of the mountainous mountainous area, are thus precisely standing. So we need to work on improving the municipal and social infrastructure in mountainous mountainous areas, removing the consequences of difficult climate conditions, preparing project and technical documentation for local development projects. Furthermore, the preparation of infrastructure as a prerequisite for investment and economic recovery, the promotion of competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship through support for activities of importance for economic development, as well as the subsidisation of accommodation for persons of deficiting interest and persons who can contribute to improving the quality of life in mountainous mountainous areas. Furthermore, the activities to be supported by the Republic of Croatia are mainly relevant for the development of this area. It is from wood processing industry, production, appropriate industrial production of the final stage of processing, production of finished industrial products, livestock, production and processing of products marked Croatian mountain product, production of special souvenirs, etc., not to list, to eco tourism, cultural tourism, health tourism, traditional construction, traditional crafts, art workshops, humanitarian, humanitarian activities, civil society organisations, etc. The news is, it's also being introduced so-called. The mountain card, precisely this will be a means of accessing the system of rights, privileges and measures of inhabitants of the mountainous mountainous area, from the right to privileged public transport within the county line traffic to the privileged use of raw materials and natural resources of local importance. It is also news that the Ministry submits a report to the government on the effects of the implementation of the mountainous mountainous area development programme until 30 April of the current year for the previous year. When it comes to the programme, it should be said that it should contain all measures and projects, both demographic and economic, fiscal, social, administrative capacity strengthening measures, and integrated territorial investments, and in the design of the programme, all units of local self-government that have mountainous mountain areas status, as well as units of regional self-government in which these units are located. It means municipalities, cities and counties. The central authorities of the state administration shall also, each, for their administrative area, and their responsibilities, no later than 60 days after the adoption of the State budget, adopt individual annual plans provided for in the programme. I stress that this law of the Republic of Croatia, the unit area of regional self-government, means the county and units of local self-government, which means municipalities and cities, and their bodies have a duty to provide assumptions for strengthening competitiveness and achieving their own development potential in the mountainous mountainous area. Detention, return of displaced and fostering the settlement of residents of the area. This law also provides for a fairer establishment of the scope of the area. Now with earlier geomorphological criteria, meaning height and slope, so far just looking at height and slope, I would say, since we hear criticism, that we will not know what areas it will be, if the height and slope of the terrain so far was that as a scale and now and further remain the criteria along the climate, means the amount of rainfall but also demographic infrastructure conditions of life, so surely this is far more just criteria than those that have been so far. A lot of criticism also concerns the amount of funding foreseen for the implementation of the programmes and projects of this law, however, it clearly states that these are funds within the competent ministry, but that the funds will also be within the budgetary divisions of other central authorities. So from the Ministry of Transport, Demography, to Croatian Waters, Roads, Forests etc. So it's as if we're forgetting that another package of tax reform, only in this unit of local self-government, has received nearly 2 billion kn. Of course, the amount of funds was also received by less developed municipalities and cities that fall under the mountainous mountainous. Furthermore, from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, we have support from the rural development programme, which leads to the strengthening of competitiveness, both agriculture and forestry and the processing industry, which also provides funding for projects in these areas. We can see that as living working conditions have improved in the workplace, in order to improve living conditions in the rural area, support has also taken place in the direction of local self-government, thus financing the construction and equipment of 57 kindergartens, 30 fire departments and so on. Here, today we are getting re-information to increase the resources available to co-finance projects in the kindergarten sector under Operation 741. This amendment increased the total amount of public support available from a billion kn to a total of a billion and 362 million. And the purpose is to increase the available funds in the competition for projects of the kindergarten sector from 500 million to 862 million kn. I believe that it is about the construction of kindergartens in villages below the 5,000th century that certain municipalities and towns from the mountainous mountainous area are also covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122781	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that IDS, PGS and LRI, and I'm sorry, I forgot that you've shared the time, uh, so that fellow Loncar has the rest of the time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122782	Thank you, Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. This final law on assisted areas, as a policy of regulatory development, regulates the management of the development of the area, which should be both a prerequisite and their economic development in line with the strengthening of competitiveness. Units of regional and local self-government should provide assumptions all due to development potentials in assisted areas through a series of measures to link local regional needs, including cohesion policy, a balanced and sustainable development of local self-government units, with an emphasis on co-operation from the investment funds programme, European and infrastructure investments and state aid. The current regulatory development of the agency operating in the area of the current counties should, in cooperation with the local self-government unit, participate in the preparation and implementation of capacity-building measures and new projects, in order to create effective use of funds for units of local administrations. The developmentists themselves in the assisted areas are obliged to take special care of social, economic, demographic, housing and other measures, which bring development papers, new economic policies and new economic movements with the aim of moving municipalities and cities to return to the population and their areas. Why is this all important to run and change exclusively, because of the current state which is not good and which should certainly be complemented or changed. In order to change all of this as soon as possible, it is necessary to do the following, connect local, regional development needs with measures and programmes and cohesion policy objectives, other support in assisted areas to increase and optimal use of their own development potential, third appropriate measures for the balanced sustainable development of local regional, regional self-government units in assisted areas, 4 promotion of integrated territorial investment programmes supported areas, 5 retention, return and promotion of population settlement into assisted areas, 6 professional financial assistance for the preparation of development projects in assisted areas, for which implementation is planned to use funds from European structural investments, funds and other sources. Finally, one of my applications to the Minister, when it comes to the Regional Development Act, and it concerns indexation, I am for all those who need help and, yes, but in part of the municipalities and cities where indexation has stopped further development in a small extent, please try to analyze the new state of affairs how to obtain.../incomprehensible/... The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122783	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI, the Honorable Representative of Tulio Demetlika will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122784	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before I refer to the final proposal of this law, I would like to say a few very important facts about the status of the mountain-mounted area and the problems these areas are dealing with. The mountain-mounted areas usually include parts of the Republic of Croatia which are due to their geographical location or geomorphological and climate characteristics in the nature of the area with difficult living conditions. That often led the population to seek a better life in others for a more favorable environment. It should also be recalled that in these units local self-government, average wages are mostly less than the national average. The Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas 2002 created for many such municipalities and cities an opportunity to increase the share in income tax schedule, and a short period of time and income tax opportunity to at least partially catch a step of development with other local self-government units that had a better geomorphological position than they had done and did. However, although many areas have significantly improved their municipal infrastructure and social standards, all the financial resources that these cities and municipalities have received have not been sufficient to repair their demographic image and keep the population in their territory. And instead of the support that most municipalities and cities with mountain-mounted status have achieved, they have received high development indices and thus hindering further development, as in a large number of competitions which are being investigated by the ministries, the index is listed as limiting or even including a factor in project candidateing. The country plans to provide 40 million kuna for mountain-mountain support programmes in the next three years. And only the costs of winter service in the area of Gorski Kotar last winter exceeded that amount. This cannot possibly be the means to change anything for the better and it is clear that they represent only cosmetic surgery. To remind 45 cities and municipalities under the 2002 law, they totalled 120 million kunas each year, and now the loss is trying to make up for a fourfold lower amount. In addition, this law will cover 85 cities and municipalities that will share 40 million kuna, which is on average about 470,000 kuna. And now the question is, how are we going to contribute to the development of these parts? As I said, even when the first reading was debated, I'm not quite sure that this law will bring about changes for the better. It is primarily because such a bill is too general, undefined and has no concrete measure and it is already visible that it will be aware of the sublegal acts adopted by the Government or the RES, which will again prevent long-term development planning. Today, in mid-December, when most units of local self-government adopted or preceded the adoption of the budget for the following year, these regions do not know what will benefit from the law after it enters into force. Unfortunately, this isn't the first time, this is five years ago since those units of local self-government until the last day of the meeting have been terrified of their incomes. The aim of this law is to contribute to the development of mountainous and mountainous areas, but I will notice that in any settlement of the legal text that has experienced as many as 7 amendments and additions each meant smaller first and abolishing financial resources even though all these changes were the aim of economic and all kinds of development. If the basic text of the current law with significantly greater advantages failed to achieve the objectives that this final proposal contains, it is difficult to believe that after the adoption of this Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, life in these parts has a chance for development. It is interesting that Article 7(9) provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, on a proposal from the Ministry of Regional Development, decide on the coverage and classification of units of local self-government that acquire the status of mountain-mounted areas. Isn't it the least unusual to say that the law is passed without knowing who it will apply to? In the previous law of the municipalities and cities that had that status were taxed, and this law should also include a list of those cities and municipalities to which the law would apply. I must also refer to article 16 of this final proposal, which provides that the programme for the development of mountainous and mountainous areas of the law will be developed for a period of 4 years. Although the first Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area came into force back in 2002 and also defined the development of a mountain-mounted development programme, it was never adopted. On behalf of the club, I must say, we are deeply hoping that after this law, the program will finally be passed after 16 years. I want to believe that we are not followed by an old well-known Croatian story, that the law is passed, and then that a concrete programme without which nothing is possible to continue waiting. Our club has repeatedly stressed that it has no effect or sense to pass a law that is not clear, unequivocal and enforceable, but I don't know why it keeps going. In addition, the law should oblige state-owned companies such as Croatian Waters, HEP and Croatian Forests to also define measures to support these areas in a way that has been done by Croatian roads. Today, we have a case that these companies have a maternal attitude towards areas that have very high incomes and benefits, and these regions do not put anything but acquired roads and difficult living conditions. To conclude from this law we expected a lot more and I hope that time won't show that we won too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122785	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Milorad Batinic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122786	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, associates. Namely, the first Law amending the Law on Regional Development, which is purely one administrative procedure, will be supported and these two laws of mountainous mountainous and assisted areas will be united and I will discuss both. In fact, I would return to the 2002 period, or functionally, when it began to be implemented in 2003, why it was adopted. At that time, certain problems have been identified which are equally current today but what I think is not acceptable to us at the HNS Club, which no ministry, no government until then, have done a more quality analysis of the effects of the existing law that has been in place so far. We'll pass this law. Namely, why, by this former law mountainous mountainous areas, assisted areas, there were also citizens and local self-governments who had certain benefits and also certain businessmen who had certain benefits in terms of tax duties. The question arises to how much and how these measures, which were prescribed by the previous law, were affected, or the effects of that law. I believe that if we had one such analysis and it was pictured here in the House so that we could understand and understand and adopt this law and the methodological way in which it was adopted. It was in the first reading that the effects of the implementation of the law from 2002 to the conclusion of today’s date did not give the desired effects, but rather the opposite. We haven't even solved the communal infrastructure, we haven't solved new jobs, we haven't solved demographic problems. To some extent, I believe that individual units have also been improved, but in general, I do not think that the effects are satisfactory and that I must expect by passing such a law and implementing such a law. In fact, we're missing a strategic approach at the HNS. We believe that this law is viewed as one of the interphase of something that will need to be preceded by a high-quality strategic law which will not slave to administrative methods but precisely which will focus more on what should be done more than two-thirds of its area to improve life in these areas, facilitate the lives of citizens, prevent, or stop negative demographic trends, and stimulate the development of the economy and stay and, preferably, the settlement of these areas. In fact, when you look at the geographic map that the areas are concerned then we see that exactly these negative trends that both the previous and this new law want in some way to stop don't date back from the 1990s. It means '50s, '60s, '70s. In these areas we are talking about now, the same negative trends have been happening. So I can't blame any of the current government for that, but as far as the problem is concerned, I think even though it was a good intention that we couldn't get these expected results. What is life in the mountainous mountainous area? The U was mentioned a lot of snow, so snow falls in the continent, except the mountainous mountain may have 20, 30% more looking and perhaps more frequent falling. My colleagues and colleagues, last year, a fiscal balancing law was adopted, where funds were allocated to all units of local self-government and cities and municipalities below average below the national budget reference value. All are open to the possibility of running for European money, for certain programmes based on operational programmes defined long before this government, the previous governments are still in the interest of the pre-accession negotiations provided by the provisions of certain restrictions and a certain framework. I agree that building a public lighting leg will not solve the problem, but it is necessary. Where there isn't. Key road, water current, availability to public institutions from preschool, school, health care. Is it necessary to help, I don't know, in the Gorski kotar where the snow is 30% higher, give only those 30% because let's not do injustice by trying to correct the injustice elsewhere? The fact is that by looking at the methodological of this law, we cannot accept and what can be concluded is that the debate of all of us here in the Parliament is more focused on the measures and programmes that we propose through the debate on the law what should be done by the ministry. In view of Article 7(3) for the determination of coverage, it will be a multi-critical method, a geomorphological, climate, demographic, infrastructure criterion. There's nothing to blame. When it's prescribed, so there's indexation, there's a point, we have to draw from somewhere under the line above which you've helped the area, under which you're not. Measures, that's what we all expect to write in this law, but I'm asking myself a question at the HNS, is it for sure right now that the Government knows, or do you ministers and your team, what measures could be prescribed in principle besides those you have prescribed here? Demographic, economic, fiscal, social, administrative capacity building measures, etc. Who can object to that? I don't think anybody did. Article 20 in the state budget doesn't worry me how much money is because it's not a problem at all, I don't see it, it's 30, 40, 150 million, 300 billion, I ask for what? I ask for what, for what measures are these projects, what are these programs that are going to fall from demographic measures, from lagging behind in the development that will give certain effects positive? I believe that we are thinking the same thing, not money, not money should be a bit of a problem, but obviously the problem that I am reading from these measures that you have listed here and I would like to absorb in particular the preparation of project and technical documentation, the promotion of competitiveness of entrepreneurship growth and also administrative support which I believe is crucial and what is the biggest lack and biggest problem in these areas, which many local self-governments each have a strategic development plan for themselves but obviously are not detected problems, the question is whether a quality SWOT analysis is made, a SWOT analysis at the level of the county for these assisted areas that are covered, that local self-government knows what to do. With this, I do not want to offend or underestimate local leaders, but it is obvious that it is precisely because, obviously, at the local level, it has not been sufficiently approachd to the extent that the invested money, invested, not feasibility, because there is no feasibility in it, but if we have made a kindergarten, it is necessary, of course, that when it is not supported, the area that is not the head of local self-government will see whether it is profitable and to what extent, not that it can earn, it is not the goal of earning, but whether it is worth doing a kindergarten for ten children where the cold drive is several times more expensive than what the cost of child's stay is, or perhaps co-financed depending on the distance of the children's journey, the transportation of children in a nearby kindergarten, or in agreement with more local environments, let us invest together, make it and encourage even a private investor, provide him with logistics, and even in the goal of ensuring that the total infrastructure is made. Namely why, it is a question of the sustainability of these projects that are running, which your ministry will valorize because it has been said, here is a colleague Pranic telling the truth, there they can definitely agree with it because it is Croatian truth in these areas. Make kindergarten, I say it's cheapest to make infrastructure, its maintenance costs, its local budget, the question of who can handle it. It's unsustainable and we have to make it. In these measures of the Minister, because what I'm saying, which we all say more or less, is those measures and programs, and that's why I say there's no element that we don't support that law, but also what I said on the board and in the first reading, we're missing one quality analysis of the situation for you, too, because without that one quality analysis, I'm afraid that the programs that you're going to bring, I don't know how much, one thing has been distributed by the items of funds from these, those funds that the fund is going to be channelled from, but it doesn't have to be bothered with, if it's going to go out of the fund, it's going to go from that fund, but the exact opposite. The program of measures you're bringing in in 4 years, okay, I'd be more pleased that it's minimum to 10, if it's minimum for 4 years to measure the effects of the implementation of that, I'm afraid we'll all be disappointed together, I'm afraid, because what's the problem with detecting in these areas is that it can't be solved for 4 years because the problem has arisen for decades. For decades. Furthermore, the fact is that whatever law we pass, billions of resources, we are simply not going to be able to solve some of the negative trends. We won't be able to solve it. Why? In particular, the development of the economy, absolutely. No one has invested at local level anymore and denied their citizens and other projects and social purposes and municipal ones, but the north of Croatia by investing in municipal infrastructure, in, excuse me, in order to boost economic infrastructure. He's just coming back to us now. It's been over 10 years. New jobs, unemployment rate 3%, we are, our industry is at that stage looking for labour imports. Yeah, one of our companies went out to work, but they didn't move out. With 75% of wages in northern Croatia 75% of the average of the Republic of Croatia, but people are not leaving. You have one middle. It's not mountain-mounted, it's second. And what's going on? In that hill-mountan municipality or the city's entrepreneur registered a company under the former law, you know where the radio factory was? In that environment that's not mountain-mounted. What did we get with that? Nothing. You'd have a lot more to say, an example. What I like, and I see it's been transposed from the Island Act, and I commended the Island Act in my first reading, and I suggested that the Law on Mountain and Mountain and Supported Areas be made, according to the model of the Island Act. There are concrete measures that are prescribed, and this is the Law on Islands, and we see this in particular here in the Assembly when we discuss the report on the implementation of the Law on Islands, when we see effects, we see positive trends and results. Of course, we will all agree that islands primarily as an economic activity is tourism, although as a seasonal, seasonal branch, but yields excellent results and that is one of the reasons. On the continent, tourism is, in practice, not even a t of tourism compared to those potentials it is. You stated here, too, that it is necessary to determine the potential in these areas. It's also a failure, not yours, it's a failure of the previous law, the previous governments, which they didn't have a far more high-quality approach. There are potentials, yes. Mountain boiler – forest, Banovina – forest, Vrgorac – strawberries. So there's potential. Now, it's up to you, completely in the government, to find out how, if there is, I don't really understand myself too much in strawberries, colleague Pranic, but you're going to suggest. What does a hectare of strawberries mean? Productionable? I know what it means to live off the woods, how many minimum acres of forest you have to have. The threshold of rentability is minimum 150 hectares. Plus that you still have at home, you make food for your own needs, like OPGs, say, or something like that. And I don't know about strawberries. But that's why the Ministry of Agriculture is there, so the synergy of the entire government should be that in some way in these programmes regardless of whose jurisdiction, it is not good for the programme to be conceived only from one resistor because it will not result. Slavonia. The largest number of municipalities is from Slavonia assisted areas. It used to be a maximum of 10 acres. He was everywhere. In the former state. What can you do today at 10 acres? You can't live on it, nothing. So it's no wonder people moved out and moved out of Slavonia today. You need a minimum, I don't know, 100, 200 acres, 300 acres, technology has done its job. The less human labor, the law of large numbers, simply, those are the parameters that matter. And which we must respect and which in some ways are also the reason why there is no more distraction, plow, and horse. We need to be aware of that. And you don't have to be surprised that people are leaving because they have nothing to do. Likewise, in the former state, which is also the consequence, we are going from the village to create a proletariat. Well, at that time, completely understandable. It was grouped, concentrated in certain settlements. It was built by a state of factories that were not sustainable economically. And of course, what happened in conversion and privatisation, except for those and the negative consequences that were, whether it was crime, let someone else deal with it, simply according to the principles of the market economy, it's unsustainable. It's closing. And it couldn't be done because the state can't build, substitute, as it used to, to build a new factory, the market economy isn't going. But we could and we should and the state is expected to in some way substitute it or help under this law. Monitoring and reporting, absolutely yes. And to conclude, the HNS club, when you have in percent, when it exceeds more pluses than negatives, which in principle are not negative, but could have been more content, better, more, not by your guilt than by the guilt of predecessors who did not leave complete analysis based on which one more content, more quality, more precise law could be made, we will support that law. Likewise, I believe that the programs that you will propose in the government is what colleagues and colleagues have said, these programs must be an integrated approach, an integrated way. Not only from one resort, but from a complete, complete state and local and regional state, and I believe a negative trend will stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122787	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP, time will be shared by respected representatives Mateljan Jovanovic, the first respected representative of Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a set of laws relating to regional development. In addition to the island law, which is the most operational, most lifelike, of these laws already passed, we have before us legal proposals on the second reading of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, the Law on assisted areas, amendments and additions to the Regional Development Act. The legal framework proposed by the government, and adopted by the assembly, nothing, unfortunately, is dramaticly new, but unfortunately, nor better, has it happened for the development of mountainous mountainous areas, neither aided areas nor regional development in general. One constant left is the Island Act, a good law, where islands actually still have the most benefits, are the highest quality, supported by the state budget. We of course from the SDP Club didn't... on the legal framework that the islands have, on the contrary, we ultimately voted in favour of this legislative proposal, but what we were hoping for, what we wanted, is that both mountainous and assisted areas have the same treatment, i.e. Therefore, measures and programmes are proposed in an equally concrete way and financial resources are provided for them and the implementation of this law is monitored. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hoped it would be treated in the same way as the Island Law, however, unfortunately that is not the case. Since the beginning of this year by implementing the new Law on the financing of the local self-government unit, we can actually say that there is no policy of regional development in Croatia, then, that there is no policy of regional development which would make a difference in tax gains for the budget of the unit of local self-government in view of their development. The development index, the new development index, which replaced the previous hate index of development, exists equally fast. For this first development index, the SDP government was blamed, for this second development index, the new government is blamed, although both have been brought by HDZ governments. Therefore, this famous development index, which, whatever the case, should be the key to the first definition of assisted areas, and then for concrete financial tools to assist these areas, simply from the inclusion of this law since the beginning of this year ceases to be the criterion for the allocation of budgetary resources from the budget, i.e., assistance from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. With this law of financing the unit of local self-government, it binds exclusively to income from one tax, which is income tax. Regardless of the development index, that share for all units of local self-government is 60%. It is therefore somewhat manipulative by the Ministry of Finance above all, but also the Ministry of Regional Development, when it communicates in public with the public and with the unit of local self-government, that the entire income tax has been shifted to municipalities of cities, which is, of course, not true, because, until the adoption of that law, mountainous areas, i.e., assisted areas had a share of income tax of 88%, it is now 28% reduced, and these 60% are divided into... % for municipalities and cities, 17 % for counties, 6% for decentralised functions and 17 % for fiscal balance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The finance ministry, he likes to boast that the new Law on the financing of the local self-government unit in the settlement section has solved that part of the problem, it has dealt with it in the short term, but certainly not in the long term. The tendency is and this shows also these semi-reforms on the tax that this government has brought, that labour tax is becoming less taxed, that income tax will be getting smaller and thus the budget of local self-government units will, of course, be increasingly smaller. The Law on mountainous mountainous areas and the Law on assisted areas apply to them as much as the appropriations in the budget are provided for them. It is for the Law on mountain mountainous areas, i.e. for mountainous mountainous areas 40 million kn, for assisted areas 80 million kn. So for 2/3 of Croatia, for most of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, 145 billion kn, this total ministry for these areas is guaranteed 120 million kn. Unfortunately, these laws can't be better, they might be the best they can be right now, why? For this reason, the government has not done what is most important, and this has not implemented the structural reform of local self-government, i.e. it has not started rounding up local self-government units, strengthening their fiscal and other capacities. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia is related to the conclusion of the government in August of this year, which adopted the proposal to reduce agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority. The reason why the government has adopted such a conclusion is likely not to see another reason why this would be, rather, a reduction, i.e. rationalisation in order to increase the effectiveness of the public administration body, i.e. in general. And, of course, no one, politically rational, no one politically well-intentioned, can be against reducing the capacity of an institution at the same time, while at the same time increasing their effectiveness, or their accessibility. But from this bill, at least I don't see it, there are no details in which the agency, or their employees, will be incorporated in the Ministry, no tools are visible that would achieve the goal, which the promoter himself has set, which is the rationalisation of the system and its greater efficiency. And under greater efficiency, I certainly consider strengthening the capacities where they are most needed, and these are in the section of preparing the implementation and implementation of the EU project. However, more than these shortcomings, I am concerned about the intensity that it has, therefore, this proposal to amend and supplement the Regional Development Act, if what it had before it, namely, this and the past changes are given much more power, i.e. the first term of regional co-ordinator is introduced at all, then much greater powers are given to this regional coordinator. These are actually regional county development agencies that were first public institutions, then they became stock companies and now, by the basis of this law, they become public institutions again. So much for the consistency of this policy in terms of strengthening the capacity of the county. We were warning then, and not only are we out of the opposition, in fact, such a proposal for strengthening, above all, the county institutions will not lead to a more effective system for preparing the withdrawal and implementation of EU funds, but it will unfortunately lead to non-professionalisation, politicisation and will actually lead to that term, which is professionally called in Croatia. It would therefore be good to check the effectiveness of regional coordinators in a way that actually sees how many projects the units of local self-government, so municipalities and cities have spent on their own capacities, which are, what is the number of projects that they have implemented through outsources or private consulting houses, and what is the number of projects and the amount of funds withdrawn, which they have done through regional coordinators, and in fact, you would get a picture of which I am saying that regional coordinators are not sufficiently encapsulated for that role given to them by this law. Moreover, in the end, I give my colleague Jovanovic space, which also bothers me, i.e. what makes me unsatisfactory, and what makes me pessimistic is that the announcements that went from the government, i.e. in the last few days in the media where the Ministry of Administration is again talking about some strange reform of the self-government site where everything is also going to strengthen the capacity of the county, to reduce it to a certain qualification of local and regional units, units of local self-government, municipalities and cities where they have 576 units of local self-government by 400 criteria is divided into large, small and watchful with, depressed, depressed municipalities and cities. The first time I read it, I thought of depressed or depressed cities and municipalities. So this time the reform is a bad way, this way of forming new, strong sopranos is not good, and instead of people and citizens of Croatia are going to perceive it, so far perceived as the state of the sheriff, from now on it will be perceived as a country of the sopranos. Unfortunately, therefore, I think that the whole set of these regional development laws is not at the level that would really win a win in space that is greater than two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia and that would literally make that space competitive and save what is being saved. Because some things are irretrievable... , some parts of Croatia are irrevocably empty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law should have allowed the part that still lives to continue to live. I'm afraid such legal proposals will not happen, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122789	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122790	Thank you, Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In addition to what my colleague Matteljan said, I can say that when it comes to this package of laws, what is especially about the mountainous mountainous area law is that it is non-transparent, discriminatory and unambitious. Why this grade? First, it's non-transparent, because the coverage is determined by the government and today we still don't know which units of local self-government are entering the mountainous mountainous area. This opens the space to political manipulations, which is certainly not good for one law that we bring to the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, he's discriminatory. Why is it discriminatory? Because it leaves out a number of settlements because there will be only 85 units of local self-government that I said we don't even know who they are but at the same time there are at least twice as many units of local self-government that have mountainous areas in their composition. For example, Krapina-Zagorje County has 32 local units and has none in its composition in the mountainous areas. Will they get into the mountainous mountainous area of genuine doubt. Will this status be obtained, for example, by Jastrebarsko, who has a settlement on Plesevica at a altitude of over 500 metres? He won't. This means that a good part of the population that really lives in the mountainous mountainous area but not according to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be cut off by the benefits that will come from the Law on the Mountainous Mountains and will, of course, create a clear and dissension among citizens because some will be extremely cut off from others just because their village, for example, on a mountainous hillside and a unit of local self-government, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has determined to belong to the mountainous mountainous area. And the neighbouring village is because for that second municipality or city to which the government belongs, it is determined to be in the mountainous mountainous area. This really cannot be allowed and I do not believe that citizens can be discriminated in this way because there is no difference in the altitude of the difficult climate conditions, the state of infrastructure and anything else that states that the conditions for determining the mountainous mountainous area are not available. Third, this law is unambitious, without concrete measures, without a plan to keep the population in the hills. We received only one empty recycled framework of the old law and the fact that the absurd after almost eight months of procedure, counselling, thematic sessions, second parliamentary reading, has been alerted since the first reading and nothing has changed but empty stories. Not ambitious enough is the amount of 40 million kuna that if we deploy to the entire population that we estimate should be covered we come up with the figure that I have said in the opening line to Ms. Kuna 100 kuna per capita. So 100 kuna is what a country that allegedly wants to keep people in these areas gives as an incentive. Of these 100 kunas, they should build and maintain infrastructure, encourage agriculture and the economy, finance demographic measures. This shows how much this government really cares about these areas. We need a completely new approach to mountainous mountainous areas, a strategy to develop agriculture and tourism in these areas because what we have ahead of us will lead, without any dilemma, further eviction, and possibly through some petty political motivated concessions, to make people feel deceived. So we don't even know how to apply the good experience that we have through the Island Law, let's have those solutions from the Island Law, we could apply this Law, and we don't even know how to read the laws and good practices, for example. Slovenia or Austria who solved this problem a long time ago. Thus, this whole legislative package shows that the implementation of the government's reform of Mr Plenkovic, his ministers, was based on the first letters of those two words, on the pyr. So, the prime minister and ministers sell to citizens fog by bringing down a number of laws to the list of beautiful desires, without concrete tools, how to implement these laws in everyday life and ensure a greater quality of life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in all parts of our country. When a young and educated man who, for example, He lives in the Gorski Kotar and thinks about leaving the Republic of Croatia, he says, "Come on, let's get some new Law in the Parliament, let me read it, I might find at least some reason to stay in the Gorski Kotar after all." After reading it, he will not stay, but will begin packing more quickly and seek happiness elsewhere. As I have already said today, given that we are in the Pre-Blessed Days, this Law can indeed be compared to a gift wrapped in colorful paper and a colorful strip, but when the inhabitants of Gorski Kotar consider and this colorful paper, they will see that they are double-crossed, that the box is empty and that there is nothing in it. The concept of the Law of both mountainous mountainous and assisted areas is based on the programme of development and sublegal acts to be adopted, and many concrete measures remain key for the development of mountainous mountainous areas and in Article. 12. The Law on mountainous mountainous areas and Law 14. on assisted areas where we believe that some of the measures should be clearly and without any doubt, such as covering the costs of the winter service and the rehabilitation of roads caused by climate conditions, the recovery of impact pits. In Gorski Kotar, a concrete, free road toll towards Zagreb and Rijeka, as an incentive for young families to stay living in the area of Gorski Kotar, subsidising public transport as a whole. In particular, we believe that it was necessary to highlight the amendment of the rules relating to the separation of land from the forest economic base in the part of the regulation or exemption of payment of the amount of compensation in the settlement of property legal relations in the Ministry of State Property, for local units with mountainous mountainous area status. Also ensuring payment of fair municipal fee for capital national corridors and facilities in the mountainous mountainous area, pipelines, pipelines, power lines, accumulation lakes. We talk a lot about the need for demographic renewal, so we believe that there must be a clear obligation to co-finance directorial costs and salaries of teachers in primary schools in the mountainous mountainous area, including primary schools with less than 5 pupils. Of course, without insurance and effective primary health care in mountainous mountainous areas, we can hardly talk about the rest or return of the family to Gorski Kotar. The category includes insurance for the availability of mangers and kindergartens in mountain mountainous areas. It is also very important to provide a variety of reliefs for entrepreneurs in the mountainous mountainous area such as the reduced rate of pay for profit taxes. Something has been accepted since the first reading, we welcome it, at least one small detail, but significant for all residents of the mountainous Kotar and mountainous mountainous areas, it is the return of the Gorica card to the law, where we believe that the Gorska card, except those living in the mountainous mountainous area, should be all who work for employers whose headquarters, especially when it comes to deficiting interests, is located in the mountainous mountainous area because it can seek one moment and return to the mountainous mountainous area. However, if we sum up everything we have said, this Law, unfortunately, will not be the way out of the crisis and lagging behind mountainous areas. It remains hoped that the implementing acts will be more concrete, so I call on the minister to accept our numerous remarks, certainly in the drafting of these programme measures, the consultants and the mayors of the Primorian Mountain County and the mayors who come from the Gorski Kotar, in order to make these measures more concrete and effective, such as: Primorje Goranska County has secured 3 million kunas for next year as a Fund for Gorski Kotar, which will encourage entrepreneurship programmes and social infrastructure of 9 mountain towns and the municipalities of Primorje Goranska County and this is a way to establish the criteria through talks with the mayors and mayors who live and work in Gorski Kotar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122791	Thank you. The next club of representatives, that of the SDSS, and on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122792	Dear vice-president of HS, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. My debate, although three points are united, will primarily focus on the Law on assisted areas. It's a law we've long waited for in the term of this government, it's promised in the government's programme itself, it was scheduled in the first year, but here, the second year has passed, and the law is now before us. While we were waiting for this Law, some things in the areas, in the assisted areas, have, unfortunately, deteriorated, primarily the demographic situation and the situation in some areas to this extent worsened over the past period that we will have to make huge efforts to fix it, if possible at all. There are great expectations of this law. There are high expectations, this showed the debate in the first reading and in the second reading, this showed the debate in the debates before the parliamentary committees. Whether these expectations will be fulfilled if we look at the content of the law itself, then he discourages that it will be fulfilled. Because the content of the law actually suggests that we will have to implement ourselves in order to be able to assess whether the law will be successful, whether these expectations will be met. I am aware that in this assembly exactly, in this assembly I supported and commended some of the laws that contained concrete measures and concrete solutions in some discussions. Unfortunately, implementation has proved to be harmful, that the ministry is becoming a narrow throat, that there is no means to implement the specific measures in these laws. And it's actually the most dependent on money. Most of all, here depends on how much money will be invested in the implementation of some measures. Because if there's no money, there's no law. The law that doesn't apply is an anti-constitutional law, the law that doesn't apply is unconstitutional. When, for example, the law was passed in 2007. The law on areas of special state care, in the light of the law, said that the law would then be secured in 2009, for example, 680 million kuna, 680,580,000 kuna, to be precise. When we look at this law, things are different, but this law has a much different financial component that is not comparable to this law that I have now stated since 2007, this law also contained housing measures, so concrete housing measures, while there is no such thing as that. This law provides for funds only from this portfolio within the ministry and 80 million kuna for the development of general measures, for the implementation of general measures and 15 million kuna for measures for areas populated by members of national minorities, so another 15 million kuna, is the total financial envelope of 95 million kuna from the competent portfolio. What you can't see and these are resources from other resolutions, so other resolutions have to provide the means to implement their annual plans and that's what you can't see here. I realize that it's difficult, in fact it might not be possible to put those funds into law, that it's actually difficult to coordinate, but right now in the debate, it's showing that when we don't see those funds, we're criticizing them and we say little are the means to implement them. And for example, it means the other resources are not seen, so let's say we have the resources from the intervention plans, so we have funds from local self-government, so it's not true that there will be only 95 million kuna, there will be funds from other resolutions, there will be funds from the local self-government budget, there will be funds from intervention plans, there will be funds from EU funds. And the funds need, if we look at the development index table, it speaks enough about the state of local self-government. 304 units are assisted areas, 304 units. Well, it's not all that black, we've had the last year of applying a new law on the financing of local self-government units that removed financial uncertainty in a large number of local self-government units. There is no more uncertainty in funding units of local self-government which was a major problem for some municipalities just a year ago. Now these municipalities have another problem, now those assets that they have to spend quality, have to focus quality, have to focus on quality programs for citizens living in these areas. The question is whether some of these units have capacity or power. They will certainly need time to adjust their capabilities to the means available. As an additional value, we have intervention plans or an intervention plan that has been adopted for 5 cities and 1 municipality, so EUR 120 million from the European Funds is secured for Beli Manastir, Dardu, Benkovac, Knin, Petrinja and Vukovar, these cities have been selected in 2015. Decision on pilot areas for the implementation of the integrated physical economic and social regeneration programme of small cities in war-affected areas. It is now necessary to work to expand these areas, to select some other areas that will have this possibility, but at the same time, the country's particularly competent ministry must control little things. He needs to see how that money is spent, how the capacities are allocated, if there's no absorption, if there's no projects, if there's no spending, then those plans remain just a dead letter on paper. Plans for the next, or for the future programming period should already be developed, it would be good to know as soon as possible and to know the areas that will have the opportunity to prepare quality for the next programming period. As far as the law itself is concerned, the architecture of the bill alone has its turn. If we leave, then we leave from the objectives set out in Article 3 where, among other things.../incomprehensible/..., development programmes are listed in areas historically populated by members of national minorities. Therefore, those objectives set out in Article 3 shall be incorporated into the programme, a multi-annual programme adopted by the Government. Resori, therefore, brings forward its annual plan by the Ministry of Regional Development on the basis of this basic programme. The whole process is co-ordinated by the rest of the ministry, I think it's hard work, complicated that it won't be easy at all. But what I'm seeing is exactly what I was saying at the beginning, so besides that architecture, we don't have meat, everything is left for that programme and for the annual plans that are actually some kind of operational plan at year level, at the level of the budget year, and when the concrete measures themselves in the law then of course there are criticisms. Therefore, we will have to wait for the concrete implementation of the law, in particular the adoption of this multiannual programme and the implementation of at least the first year of annual plans, in order to be able to say whether the law has met expectations, whether the law is successful or not. I am not going to talk about the other two laws in detail but I would like to say one fact that I was on the thematic Committee on Local Self-Government where the topic was exactly the mountainous area where guests from other neighbouring countries talked about their experiences, about their concrete solutions and their concrete measures, and these measures were good because we need concrete measures because we have concrete problems on the ground. Let's just take an example of the county road administration that can't afford certain county road administrations, they can't fulfill their basic legal task to maintain a network of their own county roads, they don't have enough resources. That's got to go away. Did that have to be written in this Law on Supported Areas? It doesn't say that, but then it should be written in the program. It's supposed to be written in the annual plan. Let him write in the Law on Roads, but let him also write in the annual program or multi-annual programme or annual plan. The Department of Transport needs to find a way to solve this. I would like to stress, in fact, that the local community must have solutions for its problems, that it must also benefit from its wealth, from its natural local resources. That it must benefit from its forests, that the sawmills that work in the areas of the municipalities, that they have secured cubicity for drinking wood, that they benefit from rivers, lakes, have the right to benefit from their agricultural surfaces. It's not enough to have municipalities benefiting, for example, from a national park, a share of some kind of ticket sales or some kind of financial collage. We need to have measures that will encourage or even oblige the national park to have multi-annual contracts with local OPGs to buy domestic agricultural products. That local crafts have contracts for the sale of indigenous souvenirs. Well, after all, some local cultural and artistic societies have a contract I don't know about performances, they have some kind of cultural-art program, a calendar of performances that will develop a cultural offer of some place because it actually supports and finance a national park and everyone will benefit. Such things are in laws and other countries, so it is not something that does not exist in practice because the assisted areas cry for concrete measures that I have stated. If we take into account the Government's decision on the financing of projects in areas populated by national minorities and the three programmes that followed it, the response was excellent in both municipalities and OPGs and crafts. The terrain is thirsty for concrete measures that must not be one year old, they must be years old and stable because that is the only way we will achieve the goal and that is a balanced development of the entire Republic of Croatia. If it hasn't found a place in the law, okay, but then it should be written in the program, it should be written in annual plans. What I am concerned about right now, what I would say is that the deadline for the adoption of the programme, it is foreseen within 90 days of the entry into force of the law, so we are already entering into 2019, I say, I think it is a rather complicated process, what is now perhaps an additional difficult circumstance is that the adoption of annual plans goes within 90 days of the adoption of the budget. The budget has already been passed, so maybe there are deadlines overlapping then maybe the ministry will be a little bit in the time frame. Maybe it would be ideal if that job had already started, so I don't know, in the 1st month. i.e. January, the multiannual programme should also be adopted and, immediately thereafter, the annual rescheduling plans to implement those programmes for the first time. Col. Panenic was mentioned by the separation of areas populated by members of national minorities, I don't think he was then directed to matter itself, especially in the rights of members of national minorities, because then we could ask a question and why, for example, Beli Manastir, Darda, Vukovar, Petine, why do they have an intervention plan and 120m euros available for their projects? Is this discriminatory in some other areas? The introduction of areas populated by minorities in this law is an affirmative measure to remove at least a little attention in these areas where members of national minorities are inhabited. We also have other affirmative measures, such as employment representation, which is actually a miserable effect. Advocacy in the employment of minority members is limited only to local and state administration and this percentage of minorities falls rather than at least being maintained or increased. We have other groups that have the right to advantage but they have the right to advantage the entire public sector, much wider rights than minority members. So much about it and I'd say, in fact, when we look at the first four groups of assisted areas by the development index, so the most underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia, there live a total of about a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia and lives over 55% of the members of the Serb national minority. So we can see what kind of disparity that is. If we look at, for example, the poverty rate, which now amounts to DZS 26.4% and income, if we take, for example, Serbs or Roma, in particular, members of the Serb national minority living in low-income households, there are about two and a half times as many, two and a half times as many members of the Serb national minority, of which, the majority people. So we have some exact indicators that actually show the need for these areas to show attention, that the state shows greater concern for affirmative measures that are not discriminatory for anyone. Finally, he would point out the fact that the SDSS Club has tabled two amendments, and I hope the Resort Ministry will have the hearing to respect the arguments for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122793	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Maria Puh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122794	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in my debate most today, although we have a united debate, I would refer to the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. Namely, all of us who come from the county and the places that have mountainous and mountainous areas are still traumatized since 2013 which then happened to local self-government units when they literally lost 50% of their incomes during the night. So all the projects that had already been agreed, planned budgets that were planned simply overnight, the then government adopted certain amendments to the law and were left without those funds. Why do I say we all have this trauma? Because all these units of local self-government have not recovered to this day, and this is now the first law to provide a concrete basis that can help them. What I am very pleased with, is that, I remember when the law was in the first reading we had all very many objections and literally in that law were just some principles and almost no good wishes in that law. The difference between the first reading of the law and this second reading of the law is really huge and you can see some contours. Whether it's satisfactory and whether that's what it's supposed to be, we could discuss it, but if it's made a huge and huge shift, it can definitely confirm it's made. What I was looking for in my first reading, which I was looking for and I'm glad to see at least the contours of it now, which is that there were absolutely no measures or absolutely no programs listed for the units of local self-government, now they are listed here. It is therefore stated that in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, measures will be taken to improve municipal and social infrastructure in mountainous and mountainous areas, eliminate the consequences of difficult climate conditions, prepare project technical documentation, prepare infrastructure, promote competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship and subsidisation of persons of deficiting interest. One of the things that I pointed out in the first reading, and it wasn't put under these measures, I once again ask the representatives of the ministry to think about it, which is to put it under these measures and to arrange and coordinate cadastres and land books. The reason why I think it should be one of the measures that could help mountainous and mountainous areas is that most of these areas of land prices are extremely small and when people need for land that is worth 2,000 kn, it takes 2500 kn to pay that they can take care of the cadastre and their land books, I assure you that no one will do so, and the budget of the units of local self-government itself is large enough to deal with the catastre and land books on their own, so I ask you once again to consider that this measure may also enter as some assistance to local self-government units, that even in Zagorje that are specifically on small parcels, in a fragmented manner, we can go round for business names and for tourism projects that are waiting for us in the future. I am very grateful that we mentioned in our first reading that it is not good and not covered, which is that we now have a clear return to the mountain card and that will allow people the rights and privileges to have the right to privileged public transportation for natural persons. So, when I first read about this law, I always ran a parallel with the island law, which I think is extremely well done and has been applied for years, which is that it's just as difficult for people living in hill-mounted areas, as well as for those living on islands, because in some way all of our hilly and mountainous settlements are islands and as they have been subsidized and they have privileged public transportation of our fellow citizens living on islands so that they can reach hospitals in Split or some other city, now, we finally have in the law a privileged public transport that will allow my citizens, that in some cheaper, perhaps easier way to reach the center of the county or hospital when they need it. Just because more and more and more bus lines are being lifted in all these areas, one good part of my county does not even have any links with the capital, no links with the City of Zagreb in which the hospital is located. So unfortunately, people have to cope in various ways, because not everyone has the ability to maintain and have two cars in their backyard that could be used to go to work and all the other things they need. It's been mentioned here before and on the budget itself, when we've brought it before, if I'm not mistaken for two weeks. We increased the item by mountainous mountainous areas by 25 million kn, compared to what was available this year. So I believe it will be visible, because if you took a multiplier, which will happen, with the funds, which will invest the local self-government units themselves, in projects that will work, I believe that it will have some shift for a moment and that you will be able to see much more. I also welcome the introduction of Croatian mountain product, the Croatian island product has proved to be something quite useful and well branded, I hope that Croatian mountain product will go in this direction. Although we are still very far from equating standards throughout the Republic of Croatia, for all units of local self-government, although this has already been tried to make equalisation through tax reform, unfortunately not all units of local self-government, were lucky and not all went equally well, and most often in those who were a little worse off were units that were from mountainous mountain areas. And what we're now passing by this law is just one little help to them. I believe that this law will eventually be further upgraded and that some things will be added to it. As a certain starting point, I think he's fine, at least I don't think it's good that they're not strictly listed in it, as I would say, by the name and last name of the municipalities and the cities that belong to that law. It might not be a bad idea to think about it, and as I have already said, consider one of the measures being to sort out catasters and land books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122795	I would like to thank my dear colleague, Maria Puh, for the individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122796	Thank you President, colleagues and colleagues as I have said, this law, a package of laws on mountainous mountainous areas, mostly mountainous mountainous areas and assisted areas, is the most important law for 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia. It's a law of national importance, of national interest, at first I said it was the time of arrival and that the laws must be worked on that during Christmas Eve, to be a hearth, not to put out the hearth. Unfortunately, this law is an incentive to destroy, this law, both the two laws we have, i.e. All three, but this first one is technical, but these two laws are the last nail in a coffin of mountainous mountain areas. Absolutely no measure, except for our minister's PR, absolutely no measure is possible here. Not only because we have a numbered demographic, but there's no measure. What's the measure, here's some minister, I can see that there's no interest in going out behind a pay phone, but I hope that after this, they'll come out behind a pay phone and say what the measures stem from this law are. That they will tell us what areas these are, which are units of local self-government, which will enter the mountainous mountainous areas, we are discussing the law, and we do not know what units of local self-government will be. The last day, before the break, which will be held by the Croatian Parliament, the Constitution prescribed, I asked the ministers to withdraw on behalf of the Independent Lists Club, to withdraw this law, that this law be in the time for completion and to be in the time when it should be. I personally gave up as well as Club Mosta, the amendment minister, I hope you will look at them, I hope you will have time in the morning to put the government together, because the government has to make decisions on these amendments, and tomorrow is the last day when the assembly works. I hope it won't be clear what we refuse, we refuse, we refuse, it's out of protocol, it's going to be in accordance with the law. That you will call on the government, that the bridge will open the agenda to discuss the amendments, that tomorrow we will vote here on the amendments. Don't take this seriously. It is not a nice feeling to return to the Dalmatian Zagora, in Lika, here, my colleague Babić will confirm that this law does not give any hope to these areas, absolutely no hope. For everything you have called for in the debate, I am primarily irritated by the meetings of the government you are calling for in Split, here is my colleague from Vrgorec and the mayor also a parliamentary representative. So you already don't know how many times... A date on this one, that road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which would solve the issue of Hvar, which would solve the Vrgorak region problem, which would solve the backdrops of our Herzegovina, which has been forgotten, which would become a concrete hinterland and the islands would be joined together. He's opening up, and here's a colleague of Bacic's opening that road. The only thing left is a piece of the asphalted part that's dangerous in essence, which is steep, holes, pits, God forbid someone goes wrong there, they're gonna get killed, they're gonna fall on the highway down there. Therefore, everything you have said in Split, I have given through amendments and no amendment has been accepted as much as the care of the Dalmatian Zagora, as much as the care of the person, as much as the care of these natural resources, I expected this law to be said here, for example, meaning, the example of life, we will set these solara, microsolares on objects of people who cannot pay, have no money to which the state provides support from the budget or local self-government eats are energy-dependent and have no money for heating. Drava stands out huge money, however, there is no such thing. There are no measures here that encourage entrepreneurs. We need to know that, yes, you are all referring to the EU is very important to you, is it much more important to Prime Minister Plenkovic how to court Junker, Tusk, Macron or anyone else than to respect the EU Declaration on Policy in Supported Areas, as regards politics, means, entrepreneurs, in areas of mountainous or underdeveloped areas. So there should be fewer taxes for competitiveness. Down there is much more expensive in mountainous mountainous areas, much more expensive, more expensive life, energy, infrastructure maintenance, which means, in the end, a much more expensive product, more expensive labour. In the Gorski kotar we have sawmills, we have people, we have tradition, we have wood, we have woods, but when the woods are harvested, those woods in the balvanas go to Italy, there our workers go to work and as an additional value through the furniture goes back to the Republic of Croatia. So let us encourage these people to remain entrepreneurs there, there is winter 6, 7 months, 8 months in Gorski Kotar, in Dalmatia Zagora. You haven't even given a measure here, we've tried, we've given amendments, I believe you'll hold a session of the government in the morning and you'll make a decision on these amendments. At this time, we see what time it is now, eight and a half hours, we are discussing the most important law instead of in the morning because there are 200,000 people in that area. As the government comes into what area, it increases emigration. I'm glad, we're friendly, especially in Dalmatia Zagora, Licani, these areas, Slavons, however, it's not enough just to come to certain events, come to paint, photograph, give false hopes and promises that are not in the Laws, are not found. This is too serious a law to play with the fates of those parts. 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia is literally empty because of these non-serious policies, such laws that are at least harmful. The Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds so far means so far. The Republic of Croatia has at least withdrawn funds from EU funds, was the last, and now Malta has arrived. Of the EUR 5.5 billion paid, we withdrew 900 million from the estimated EUR 10.5 billion. What's going to happen, we already have announcements from the Ministers that they're going to shrink in the budgets of Cohesion Funds or funds that you're going to settle because Macron, Tusk, Junker doesn't care about the Republic of Croatia. It is important to them that their listeners are headed by the state of the Republic of Croatia. That's what matters to them. We didn't fight to get those funds here, we didn't solve anything for those ends, we have natural resources, we have resources. Here are the microsolars when I mention it, the MOST of Independent Lists has a year of standing the Law on Procedure that would solve energy poverty in the Republic of Croatia, but they are more important wind power plants, that 1.5 billion kunas pay more electricity that is an incentive of energy and that goes into their pockets, while that money, meaning, could be invested in microsolares, thus encouraging entrepreneurship, thus encouraging everything else that goes along with it and there are no poor. These two laws are respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry the minister didn't withdraw, the last nail in the box 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia. If there are no concrete measures in these very important laws, believe me, this ministry needs to be shut down. It's unnecessary, all the costs you pay for piar, that's what we're trying to invest in these areas, in kindergartens, subsidies of kindergartens, subsidies. 50% of our children are not able to be in kindergartens, in other countries, you can see how she solved Germany, Belgium, Austria, how she financed underdeveloped areas that children, that parents don't pay for local self-government throughout kindergarten, we haven't solved that. This law is the last nail in the coffin and the minister would be best to suggest Government to shut down this department. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122797	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have a replica, dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122798	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, I really appreciate you because I remember that you were then, and now you're in the same party that did the majority of parliament with HDZ, but you didn't vote for the state budget proposal, I remember well when your search for additional funds for the mountainous mountainous area failed, you remained a man unlike many MPs here, I can't blame that minister, the minister working within her capabilities, but we now had a budget proposal, we were giving the same amendments to increase the funds for the mountainous mountainous area, for the assisted area and that man and the parliamentary representative who came from that area, raises his hand against it. So what happens in the Republic of Croatia when someone on the side is looking, it's an impossible situation, that a man from the assisted and mountainous area of the vote against the proposal to increase his speaker is not understood./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122799	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122800	Thank you very much. My colleague Pranic, yes, I was part of the majority as a parliamentary representative and I asked for an increase in funds for mountainous mountainous areas, it was not accepted that I did not vote in favour of the budget, as part of the ruling majority. And I'd do it again, if it were up to my voice, I'd do it again. Because I was chosen by the people, and as a representative of the people, I have this obligation. And I'm surprised that MPs from these areas have the cheeks not to support certain amendments and not to fight, that they don't fight with the minister. You're even partly right because parliament is above government, they have the greatest power, but that's not the case. It's not like that. And tomorrow I'll explain why it's not like that, when they're amendments. I was going to say now, but maybe it's not the time, but tomorrow I'm going to say, why is it that people in mountainous mountainous areas and undeveloped areas don't support things that matter to their citizens because they're not representatives of the people, they're party representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122801	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122802	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, here's when we talk about the mountainous mountainous area and when we talk to people who come from these areas, we can often get an answer from them so that they actually wish their status was restored to the mountainous mountainous area. This is a very interesting finding, given that the status of mountainous mountainous areas has not been abolished, however after 2014 and after numerous changes in the laws between other and mountainous mountainous areas of benefits that we have left are in fact very symbolic, mainly related to free harvesting of forest fruits and certain benefits during hunting seasons or during the lease of agricultural areas. At that time, we ran out of income from profit taxes, and first, we lost those 25% and later the rest of us left, and in fact, it was mostly profiting from the state budget while local self-government units had relatively little use of it. I would refer specifically to my city of Ogulim, which then ran out of more than 20% of its budget revenues. And it is not surprising, therefore, that residents of these areas believe that mountainous mountainous areas have been abolished since they practically had nothing of that status. It is evident that the current legal solutions are missing and are practically a dead letter on paper and, in fact, by 2018, the development of mountainous mountainous areas is not even actually financed from the state budget if I am not mistaken in 2018, only one million kuna are foreseen and the funding has been made exclusively through the separation of 10% of income tax in these areas of local self-government units. The basic measure, the basic measures that this law actually adopts and which we receive primarily is the programme of development of the mountainous mountainous area. This programme sets out the measures and projects that are key to the development of these areas but what is important is that all units of local self-government actually have the opportunity to participate in the design and creation of the programme. And this is exactly what these programs can say to the alpha and omega not only of this law but also of the Law on assisted areas where they are actually units of local self-government and which can precisely define all the problems and difficulties they face and, in fact, define both solutions, or find solutions and steps towards better through the precisely making of these programs. As regards the funds allocated from the state budget for mountainous mountainous areas, I personally believe that the priority should be to subsidise deficits in any way. In vain, we have all our support, all our good wishes, and all our measures if our environments or cities and municipalities are to be left without a doctor, dentist, teacher and without all those professions and without all those professions that actually make one city or one municipality a city and a municipality in the full sense of that word. Secondly, I would put in place a boost to entrepreneurship but through support that is actually important for the development of mountainous mountainous areas that are specific. And here I would stress the targeted support, not the kind we knew of having one-offs that may have been positive in the short term but had no effect in the long term, but targeted support for development and primarily for new technologies, to improve labour technology so that both these areas and industries could be competitive on the market and I would put particular emphasis on those who have a high percentage of finalisation in the production itself. Likewise, I would also mention removing the consequences of difficult climate conditions, there is, of course, an emphasis on the winter service that can be a big bite for, we can thus say the small budgets of individual units of local self-government. As far as the Croatian mountain product programme is concerned, I really welcome it, I hope that the regulation that needs to be adopted will indeed provide for measures that will help manufacturers on the ground. First of all, I think of all the small and smaller manufacturers, small OPGs that may not have had enough power and financial and actually marketing to go to the market and to choose their place under the sun on that market. And by branding Croatia's mountain product, we'll actually be able to make it easier for them. As regards the introduction of a mountain card, in addition to the right to privileged public transport, of course where we have that public transport, I believe that a much more important provision of privileged use of raw materials and natural resources is but that this use should be kept strictly defined, truly to the benefit of the population and that any abuses in the beginning would be anticipated and actually prevented. And in the end, I think it's important to repeat that without economic development, mountainous mountainous areas actually fall into our water all other measures of demographicism and beyond. And the activities that can not actually be but which must ensure the development and survival of these areas, I believe that the primary forestry and woodworking industries, but the woodworking industry with a high degree of finalisation and here I deliberately mention forestry even though it is not mentioned in the document itself, in the law itself, forestry that the woodworking industry itself must be based on the rules of the profession and the necessary management so that we do not consider this as one incentive or cause uncontrollable exploitation of this natural good. Equally, agricultural production must be sustainable, cost-effective and promoted and encouraged through Croatian mountain product and of course tourism that must be focused on the specificities of the region. These are, in my opinion, activities that we need to focus on and we need to pay particular attention when drawing up a development programme and, of course, I will repeat with a plan to encourage and, in fact, to keep all those deficiting interests without which life in these areas would not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122803	Thank you, dear fellow Liposchak. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Klaric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122804	Dear fellow Lipoščak, you mentioned the important part of this law and what should be considered about the economy itself. It is good that the ministry has accepted that increase from 20 million to 40 million, but much more important than money, and that we had information from the meetings that we had with representatives from Austria, Switzerland also hilly, they do not have any benefits, but the conditions have been created for those living in such an area to feel comfortable living in that area and for the people to stay there to live. Therefore, this law should be seen not only in the financial part, as many respect it but should be seen in a package of all other laws, and primarily in this regard also the law on the financing of units of local self-government when these cities and municipalities are in such areas and how they raise their budget with the basis of those measures provided for by these laws. So, not only should we look at this law, but in a package of all other laws and resources, what Our goal is to keep the population in the area. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122805	Answer, dear colleague Lipovscack, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122806	My colleague, Klaric, fully agrees with you, and in fact, we often hunt ourselves in a trap in which we look at the law in a much wider light, in a much wider way, and when it does not fit, we look exclusively at it. This law carries directly with it certain financial resources, however, and what you have said are a number of other advantages and not only financial not only what you said about mountainous and mountainous areas, I will mention here, since we often talk about and talk about forests and forestry, we had not so long ago and the forest law here where, for areas or mountainous areas, and for assisted areas, forest contributions are raised by double means from 5% to 10%, these are not small amounts, these are not small amounts, here in particular the management of the Ogulin forest in 2017 has paid through the contribution of that old of 5% 2 million kuna to the units of local self-government and a simple calculation we can get to what money they are and now so I agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122807	I thank my esteemed colleague, Liposchak. The next debate, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, is not present. Dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122808	Thank you, Vice-President, Minister I will be affirmative in my individual presentation, in my presentation on behalf of the club I have said all the flaws that I consider to be contained in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and, in fact, often when I go from my Vrgorec to Zagreb, I simply ask myself why we in Dalmatia could not be like France's provans, or why, for example, the Kotar Mountain could not be like the Alps, Italian, French or Swiss. Why can't we simply paint a system of regional development of Western European countries into our system and turn one moving trend, facing positive sides, not to talk about emigration, to talk about the settlement of mountainous and mountainous areas, areas with all natural, cultural values and beauty. When a government needs to decide whether the relevant Regional Development Ministry will truly be the Ministry of Regional Development and give its own national funds to implement the Regional Development Programme or whether this will continue as it has been all these years. We cannot rely on European grants in regional development and help the assisted mountain-mounted area. We must have our own national resources, and if we have national means to buy planes, I believe that the same funds deserve both the mountain and the assisted area. It's 2/3 of Croatia. Personally, I still feel that we have lost 564 million kunas in the last 4 years to talk about 40 million kunas. These are simply illusory means which are extremely small so that we can even talk about keeping the space and developing the territory of Croatia in which 190.000 Croats live. We personally have proposed a few amendments, and I will try to use this debate to the end to present some things. In Article 15, you mentioned certain measures, we added environmental and nature protection measures, housing measures were also in the Law on an assisted area and measures to build energy systems from renewable energy sources. I'm concerned that environmental protection measures are not mentioned at all, if we want to leave those generations behind, we should also develop such measures that should actually preserve those natural beauty. In Article 20, we do not mention agricultural, competitiveness and the growth of agricultural meanings of activity, the moss in Dalmatia is agriculture and primary and secondary economic activity for many families, I personally observed all those families who do not move out. Because many farms say secondary sources of income. We didn't mention it in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. Co-financing of pre-school education in Croatia will be your turn in 2 years when kindergartens are built, when local self-government units cannot finance all employees from regular business and we will not be able to meet European criteria, although we are last for 60% of kindergarten children, Cyprus is next with 74%. This will come, this will need the Ministry of Finance to decide whether those kindergartens we're building now, we want to have children at all because units of local self-government from the mountain and assisted, will not be able to co-finance. The improvement of the environmental protection system, the improvement of the public tourist infrastructure system, tourism is also mentioned little in the mountainous and mountainous area, although I say I really don't understand why we in Dalmatia burn and we have reason to look forward because we are named the best rural tourism destination for 2018 now on the Days of Croatian Tourism in Hvar or Gorski Kotar, simply through the measures of the Ministry of Regional Development, we cannot develop that infrastructure. Now let's let the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Agriculture, because if we look at it that way, we have the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, the roof ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development, if we plan to develop mountainous and assisted areas. In Article 24, activities of importance for the economic development of the mountain-mounted area. You mention livestock, you don't mention pig farming, and you don't mention meat-processing industry even though it's complementary. If a tree with a tree industry is complementary, it's also livestock, pig farming related to the meat-processing industry. In particular, we have the meat industry of the Pivac Brothers. In many mountain-mounted areas in Croatia, other meat-processing industries operate, and I don't know why this activity isn't involved as an activity from a specific area for the development of the mountain-mounted area. You forgot your winemaking and your vineyarding. In Dalmatinska Zagora in Gorski Kotar and central Istria which we forget here within the mountain-mounted area, and Malta not 6 units I think it has now for mountain-mounted areas in... The law, winemaking and viticulture is an extremely important activity not only in terms of primary activity, but also in secondary further development of tourism that is based on these branches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a good article of the Helped Area Act, which is related to local self-government units around Plitvice Lakes. Now watch the paradox. The same article of the law I prescribed to you in the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. In the area of mountain-mount of Croatia, you have NP Risnjak, North Velebit, PP Biokovo, Papuk, Učka, Žumberak, Velebit. Why not simply local self-government units collect one ticket from public institutions dealing with the management of the protected area? But let's cut that censorship to 2 million kuna. We're not all Plitvice Lakes. And another article that is very important to me. And I guess if someone understood finally in this country, we had built highways. Those highways are empty to us. And why not stand empty, so not all entrepreneurs have the possibility of paying highways and expensive tolls, why not encourage the development of entrepreneurship in the mountainous and mountainous areas by system that these mountain credentials as we have suggested by one amendment, entry and legal person with central business in the mountainous and mountainous area and are simply able to co-finance the roads on our highways? This way, the gaps are empty, they're built, we're returning debts and we're using them in the development of the economy at all, and that would be an incentive measure why some economic activities wouldn't move from urban to rural areas, let's just say it might be easier for some transit transport to come from Rijeka to Delnice if they had such benefits and everything else, and they'd probably hire certain people. The forgotten article of the law that I particularly liked from the former Law on the mountainous and mountainous area, which is an advantage for the right to rent agricultural and forest land and other natural resources, has the same condition as the natural and legal person with residence or the headquarters of units of local self-government in the mountainous and mountainous areas. We all know that the problems of natural wealth are forests and if we have equal conditions, why don't you give me the benefit of those private entities that have a seat in the hill-mounted area. There are also a number of amendments that are related to renewable energy sources, and I'm telling you that the mountainous and mountainous area due to geomorphology is going to come to you in the next three to four years, which is a very big problem, because because of geographical breakdown and small density, simply public water suppliers will not be able to finance themselves and there will be a bankruptcy of companies owned by units of local self-government. The most expensive water is paid to you by citizens in the hill-mounted area, which is why, due to the price of electricity, because of water pumping, in particular the area of Vrgorac and Imotski and Vrbovski and Delnica, compare the unit prices of water, you will see that the largest, much bigger than in Zagreb, Split itself, Osijek or any other city in the valley. Because the simple price of electricity has a significant impact, we now have the latest public procurements where 30% of the electricity prices have gone up. We tried to present all of this through the amendments, but I personally think that the financial envelope will not be enough for these with 40 million kunas to finally implement it, and I think that the government and the prime minister should give a clear answer whether they want to live in a mountainous and assisted area because this is nothing more than squirming and sometimes I really wonder why I am in the Parliament, sometimes I wonder why I am the mayor of a city when I can't tell my citizens it'll be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122809	Thank you, dear colleague Pranic. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122810	Thank you very much. Comrade Pranic, you have made suggestions, you have also mentioned activities and agriculture that can be dealt with and all that energy is needed. The fact is, when we mention agriculture, you mentioned vineyarding. Here I will mention that the competition for the best extra virgin oil in Vodice, Dalmatia, selected olive oil from my village in Dalmatia. We have hope. We have potential. We have the most beautiful piece of land. We have sources of drinking water. But we have to have sustainable development, but someone doesn't care that people live here and fight. Because this law doesn't encourage these people to stay in that area. This law is destructive. This envelope is ridiculous, what you said about this 40 million kuna package. 85 units of local self-government. This is ridiculous. This is a mockery.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122811	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. The answer of my colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122812	Well, of course, my colleague Bulj is a really funny envelope of 40 million kuna and when, because I am personally starting from the point of view that all these programs will go through the Ministry of Regional Development. As for other ministries, you see you also have investments in Croatian waters on a regular basis that is not part of the mountain-mounted area and a series of other institutions. But we need to know that our roof ministry of regional development is called the Ministry of Regional Development, I expect that in their part, the housing of the state budget to be bigger funds. But that's what these gentlemen here from the parliamentary majority, no matter what part they come from, if we were, in particular, in the parliamentary majority, I would ask for it. So there's no blame for the government, you know who's voting the budget. The budget is voted by parliamentary representatives and what I said in one of my presentations, I do not realize that someone who comes from that area raises his hand against the amendments that actually gives greater funds to the mountainous and assisted area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122813	I thank my colleague Pranic for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122814	My colleague Pranic, you mentioned the woodworking industry and the question why would we not give them the opportunity to actually process that raw material in their area? Well, it's just in law in art. 24. says activities of importance for the economic development of the mountain-mounted mountain-mounted, mainly wood processing industries and production of the final stage of processing. In fact, through a letter of understanding to all those who cannot justify their invoices, i.e. to prove further processing of wood, reduce the quotas of that wood. In this way, in fact, the law encourages final production, in this way larger quotas, and in fact reduces manipulations for someone to get wood mass just because it is located in such an area and that a product that is not a final but a log comes out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122815	Thank you. Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122816	My colleague, I was personally this winter in Gorski kotar after snowfalls with my colleague Bul in person, and I know very well the Mayor of Delnice and Mayor Vrgorec, Mayor of Chabra, in fact, all of us from the mountainous area always stick together regardless of the party's omen. And we all say the same thing. And you know as well, I've been listening to your careful exposure to why the woodworking industry was developing at that time in Gorski Kotar? Because then entrepreneurs in the mountain-mounted area had benefits based on profit tax. And you know it. And that's off. And while it was, we could use this baratat system to get the entrepreneur right into the hill-mounted area, open its production, and normally have one part of the profit tax, freed himself, or not equal at Croatia level, now we've all evened out. This is Croatia's regional development policy. Equipped everything. And as long as we have such tax systems, simply entrepreneurs will not come to an assisted mountain-mounted area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122817	I thank my colleague Pranic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122818	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Minister with the Associates. So I'm going to start with one finding, namely, one survey conducted by the Institute of Public Finance on county and municipality incomes says that the county has seen an increase in the average total income, and the municipalities have an increase in average income per capita and that is, therefore, the period 2014-2017. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about exactly how some of these colleagues mention, how municipalities and counties are, etc. deprived, no income, and the rest, however, the facts say otherwise. When reforms were made, tax reform, then it is known that the most important factor in the last 5 years of income per capita was precisely the number of inhabitants in each area, which means that everyone should in this sense make sure that people are attracted to the number of inhabitants as much as possible. If we are talking about the law itself on assisted areas and mountain-mounted mountain-mounted areas, then we see that the aim of the laws itself is to refer through the law on regional and regional self-government units, i.e. the index of development, to where and in which groups that belong both here and there, and also to the other law, to the development holder, and also to the planning and management of development, are actually units of local self-government where they, through their development agencies and their plans, actually coordinate with the ministry and refer to what they want to achieve in this particular area. So when you're talking about not knowing who's involved in the hill-mounted mountain, then it's enough to read or assisted, assisted areas, it's enough to actually read the Regional Act itself, and then the decision to define who's in which group, so that they can identify who belongs to which category and how to come to the very definition and status of a single municipality or city. When we look at it, and it's published here on the Ministry of Regional Development's pages, then you can see, here, for example. The use of EU funds by county in 2018 with the end of the 8th month of this year, and then it is seen that from 2014 to 2020, the perspective with this period is the same. A total of 3484 programmes and projects have been reported for the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion per county, worth more than 32 billion kuna. Through the operational programme, effective human potential is 840 projects worth 4.5 billion, and the rural development programme is as much as 190,748 projects worth 9.1 billion kuna. And now I'm wondering who has reported all these projects, which are ghosts, Casperes, who report these projects, I think the ministers that these are real data, so the projects have been agreed, the question is, are you of all the projects, whether we are part of some community, have really recognized and identified the real priorities that are going to run certain developments, or did we do so in order, so let's ask ourselves whether this framework that's been set up through this island law, so the mountainous mountainous or assisted areas, whether we have recognized our potentials really in this way, projected them in the way we think that this development should be, and in addition, if we're not from these financial capacities, then, strengthened through tax reform and otherwise set income tax revenues, so let's ask ourselves, then, how could there be so many projects if you're like those that we're not good at where they're water. Therefore, I claim that this is an excellent tool that allows all of us to think and teach each other what is our priority, what are our options, what will create a new value, and how it will all work out so that what our colleague Pranic said will become a developed Switzerland, Austria or any other region in Europe. So, we have potential, we use these tools, we use all these funds that are offered to us, where, when you look at it, our national part is only 15%, and everything else is the funds that come from the EU. So let's stop, let's not cry over what we haven't achieved, but we're working on doing a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122819	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. Replica esteemed colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122820	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Perić, you really understand the financial flows, and then perhaps you understand this calculation where we have lost a simple mountainous area of 564 million kuna, or perhaps you understand that these new fiscal balancing measures are not the same as all those measures in 2014. I understand that the units of local self-government are given 2 maybe billions of kunas, but that's right, maybe wrong, because imagine that we've got billions of kunas, and the Ministry of Regional Development has billions of kunas in its hands, that it can further stimulate the mountainous mountainous areas because let's not forget that within these 2 billion kunas hide many units of local self-government that have very much resources, have the means for new glidering sites big, I don't really have it in my city, I'm not saying that it's not a bad skating area, you have many islands of coastal cities and municipalities that have passed within that Law, maybe it's much better if a billion kuna kuna were made available. The Ministry of Regional Development so it can implement regional policy in the Republic of Croatia. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122821	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Answer, colleague Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122822	But you don't want to understand that funding models have changed, that the government and we have to, work in a way that strengthens you as your original financial, fiscal incomes. So, in the units of local self-government, in the county, in cities, it's precisely the goal of empowering them as such, and they create preconditions, therefore, with their original incomes, not that the Ministry transfers for some project in one way or another, these are outdated models that we have to deal with, which are simply not sustainable anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122823	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122824	238 only that, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, as regards the strengthening of fiscal capacity, there is no increased fiscal capacity, meaning, the rise in income, income tax, the non-taxable part of payment 3,800,00 kn, income tax revenues are reduced. As far as these national funds are left to local self-government units, the question is, what will happen after 2021 when the population is reduced, and we all know that these measures go beyond the population, which will then happen There will be more decomposition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122825	My colleague Pranic and you and I are aware of the fact that you already have three replicas and that you have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but since you are aware I will not give you a warning. We're moving on to the next debate of respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122826	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President, honourable minister, assistant minister, I would now speak only about the Final Proposal of the Law on Supported Areas in my debate. They can indeed agree with all colleagues who would like far more funding to be provided for these areas, however, they cannot agree that there is no measure in this law, because exactly one section in this law refers to measures to the development of an assisted area, and it is precisely here that the measures that need to improve the availability of local infrastructure and economic, social and demographic revitalisation of assisted areas with the aim of balanced regional development with the following measures from the improvement of municipal and social infrastructure, the preparation of project technical documentation for local development projects, the preparation of infrastructure as a prerequisite for investing in economic recovery, the creation of conditions for raising living standards, etc. It is this article, as well as the one concerning the obligation of the Ministry to submit to the Government a report on the effects of the implementation of the programme, that it is a newspaper in relation to the draft law in the first reading and the obligation to act under this law not only does the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds but also the central authorities of the state administration and other public authorities. What I would particularly point out and what I am pleased to do since I come from Sibenik-Knin County, since in this area we have cities and municipalities in their territory, they have a protected area registered, I am pleased to see Article 22, more precisely, paragraph 2, because this first refers to units of local self-government in assisted areas, which in their field have registered protected areas, thus exercising the right to cash compensation by a public institution. For those who do not know, refer to Krka and Plitvice National Parks, and it is precisely Krka National Park that is a protected area that falls into this category that has income, net revenue from ticket sales greater than 20 million kuna. According to the proposals so far, the city of Drniš would be cut off for compensation, and that fee has been around 850,000 kuna in the last two years, for example. The town of Skradin had a million-and-a-half kuna, the municipality of Prominik, Kistanje is about as much on this basis, and in the area of the town of Drniša there are 2,300 hectares of registered protected natural area. As the town of Drnis knows that it no longer falls under assisted areas, it would be denied for these revenues, so thanks to the ministry, the Minister of Understanding, I have spoken of this topic myself several times when the legislators were the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and also when we had a thematic session on the topic of overcoming the development constraints of mountain and mountain areas and even development of the Republic of Croatia. Since the town of Drniš has a lot of specificities and also shares the problems of the Dalmatian Zagora, this income that will have and the unit of local self-government will achieve up to 5.5% of the net income from that public institution is not negligible. It should be pointed out that these funds are intended revenue and that the city of Drniš as well as other units of local self-government that will receive funds, can be used exclusively for nature protection projects, construction of municipal water facilities for public water supply, public draining, maintenance of the cleanliness of the settlement and the collection and processing of municipal waste. Of course, the Ministry of Nature Protection will oversee the use of these funds, but once again thank you on behalf of Drniš and Drniš that this law will allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122827	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juricev- Martinchev. We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122828	Thank you very much, distinguished colleagues are all declarative views, so we don't have the measures worked out here, and we don't know at all what the scope, what local self-government is, 85 will be, so almost twice as many now as 45 have in local self-government. Is 40 million kuna for this all you've listed, so there's no 12 kunas just to count what you've listed, not 85 local self-government. So we've increased if I see some fellow MPs boasting that they've accepted an amendment of 10 million kuna, and they won't say that the number of units of mountain-mountan i.e. has increased. We're discussing the law, and we don't know which units of local self-government are within it, it's meaningful. And just a year ago at this time Drnis was declared a developed end, developed, here is the minister and her ministry has declared Drnis a developed end No more cats, no more mice. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122829	Here are my colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122830	Thank you very much, so, fellow Bully, my first sentence was to agree with you and that everyone would certainly like more funds planned. I wasn't talking about the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas over there is 40 million kunas unlike aided by 95 million kunas and I agree that it's not enough. But I can't agree with you that there's no measure when you're exactly standing up to the whole section and the measures are numbered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122831	I thank my esteemed colleague, Juričev Martinchev. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122832	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, I would like this debate to have ended long before, so that it can respond to the amendments, our colleagues from the Most, and you will actually have to return to the ministry after all, but good. The government is certainly aware of this situation and has thought and radically and proposed the law, these three laws, I now refer to the Law on the mountainous mountainous area. So already there was a situation that was not good in rural areas, especially in the mountainous mountainous area, and that is why it actually went into the draft of this law. Now, this problem, what it is, I will refer to my colleagues from the bridge, what you said on behalf of the club and in individual debates, this issue has not been since yesterday, so since 2002 it seems to me that six or seven times this law has changed, and it has changed, and there is only a fellow member of the SDP I remember when he was Minister of Regional Development, then the Minister of Regional Development, we were at the time arguing about indexation, so circumstances have conditioned certain things true that colleagues from Slavonia, Lika Senjska County or we from the Split Dalmatian County, especially all had some differences for some new, different or better indication, about how we could actually get as much funding for local administration and self-government units. You tell us what we need asphalt, what we need road, what we need water for, what our footsteps will do, and I tried to see your 2019 budget on the pages of the city of Vrgorca so I can see if you planned anything about it. So, opportunities condition you for that. You're a young man, you're full of enthusiasm, as mayor, you know that I have respect for everything you do. I don't know why you're in the Bridge, you're supposed to be in HDZ, but you're wrong so you'll come and I'm sure of it and all your suggestions are welcome. I do not have sympathy with you, but we come from the same areas, mountainous mountainous areas, and all of what you're saying, we've been saying for 15 years. However, how do you plan to develop, how do you think to talk about the economy, investments if you don't have built infrastructure and that was our problem from the very beginning. When you talk about demographic devastation, I agree, but it didn't come from '90, '91, 2 or 3 years ago it's been almost 50 years. So, the area where you and I come from, and you know that they were completely devastated, the fact is that they had certain industries under quotes down, artificially made, but when the market went missing, and that industry, people were fired. As far as these funds are concerned, when you transfer to the minister, I say some, perhaps with the right, you have the autonomy to decide. So every municipality and every city and every county can concentrate all their resources on what they think is best for them, here's this fellow who sits next to me, he's been thinking about an industrial work zone in his area for a long time, even though many people from his town were mocking him about it, actually calling it funeral names, today they're not arguing about it anymore. What is a paradox, what you have talked about, and many people, you will see and it will happen to you, and that is the strangulation of all of you all cursing the state and throwing wood and stones at the state, and everyone is asking for help from the state and from the units of local administration and self-government, and therefore perhaps there is no room for you, although you are in opposition to some kind of apathy, defetism, negatism, because it is actually such a picture, where people from your country and my neighborhood are often leaving because of these statements in the Croatian Parliament, and this hopelessness is partly dissuading them and leaving their places, are going into suspense and many are unfortunately disappointed. So, maybe there's something else I want to say that I don't take much more time, I said more about the indexation, about the proposal, so I also said in the replica, I'm grateful to the minister for, say, the intervention plan regarding the Imotski final and the town of Imotski. We have been working on this, with all due respect to the minister who is here, we are political persons, but let's say, here I am looking at this colleague Katica Miskovic, whom you know well, so she is here from the very beginning, and she is actually a chronologist of all these events, and in fact she could talk about this most in the Croatian Parliament, knowing the situation in which we were at the time. So, I'm sure in the best possible way she wants to do the most just thing to be equal representation and to have as little criticism as possible of this law. So, I'm grateful, when we were talking about the Imotski intervention plan, we didn't mean to do it selectively, because I'm from Imotski or you from Vrgorec, we were already talking and talking about Vrgorec, and about Sinj and Vrlica, so, about many other places and through these plans will corner. All units of local administration and self-government get. When we look at a wider picture, and you were also witnesses to this, so in 2017, amendments to tax laws, tax laws packages and all that revenue, I was also talking about the excise tax code, so, always trying to put certain demographic measures, and also those measures that would improve the situation in our neighborhoods in the excise tax code, this would be related to the transport of students, because of the inability of the economic price set, and here you have through this mountain card, where you will be able to use it in the area of a county, for certain benefits in line transport, but for mineral and other raw materials in that area. When we were working on the amendment, along with Mr. Shipich, Pooh, then increasing that 10 million kn, I agree, it's a little bit and we'd all like ha billion might please us. But fiscal possibilities aren't like that, and believe me, if we put 100 million pounds each, we'd be looking for more today, which is normal, which is natural. So, all mezetimo, what my colleague Pranjic said, would not agree to live in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and in these rural areas. It's not the same when we talk about islands, I agree with that. The square meter of Hvar land or Brač is 300 euros, with us 5 euros. It's not the same thing. It is not the same to pay for the construction permit in the area of Vrgorec or Imotski or, for example, in Split, the connection of electricity, water or the like. Payment of the price of water, we talked about it all. But unfortunately, the situation is such that we simply want that part to flow fluidly, and unfortunately we pay a higher price, and that's the truth. Now, of course, the law can always be changed. You say what happens when the demographic picture changes. Listen, I'd love to, but positively, I've been telling you, from my experience, everything we could give to young families, and you're giving it, I've seen it on your pages, so from birth, maternity, I don't know, later, kindergarten, until you go to school, paying transportation, paying for high school students, scholarships to students, getting students, seedlings,... So everything we could give, we let these people survive, but it's not always for demographics a crucial financial reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Trust me. So the social climate has to change, and in fact we were all participants being opposition or position to change this social climate and we're going to get better. When we're making comparisons, which I heard from your presentation, this isn't personal to you now, when you tell me about Provenza, I was talking about Provenza in 1995, and she's logical to me. When you talk about the Alps, the Gorski kotar and that makes sense. So that's what they were talking about back then. We can have both Germany and Austria here. But we don't have a mental set of German and you're aware of it, you've often told me about it as mayor because you know citizens who come to you don't think that way. So support this law, and here are the amendments that you have supported, you know that we will not be able to accept them, which is understandable because we are in agreement with the ministry, we would like that to happen, but in some of the amendments that you are proposing, especially our colleague Bulj, it is as if you are asking that all students in the high school in Vrgorec must finish their determined class. It's just not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122833	Thank you, dear colleague Babic. We have replicas, dear colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122834	Thank you very much. You, my colleague Babic, were actually talking to a colleague, Pranic, and I guess he can't answer because he cracked his lines, so I'm just going to refer to the part where you said you appreciated his work and how well he works, but unfortunately neither in the MOST nor in HDZ. I mean, I've heard that a lot of times, it's a thing and my mayor, he'd want me to be in HDZ, if my mom was in HDZ, that my dog was in HDZ, that my cat was in HDZ, but that's impossible. I mean, at least for me and Mom. You need to understand, in fact, that regardless of the party we're in, we want this country well in our local community, and maybe that's why we're not in HDZ. So don't underestimate us in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122835	I'd like to thank my colleague Matteljan. Here's your colleague, Babic. Stick to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122836	Of course, of course. I refer to what he was saying, I don't know if you listened to your colleague Pranic, but now that he asks, I know that his wife is a colleague of Pranic and his mother-in-law in HDZ and she was the president of the council, so that's why I said it, so it was like that, it was more personal, and he knows it very well. I'm not saying it should be, but it was really up to him because he talked about it, you know you're in HDZ, so you did it because we don't think about it, we're ruling, I certainly wouldn't support this, but we'd be working differently on it. No, it's not like that. I remember very well how many wars we, under quotes, led with Mr. Greek, who also had a good will to settle some things, but simply couldn't, and then that law was under criticism from the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122837	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Liposcak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122838	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Babic, in your presentation you said that the law can be changed if conditions are created for this. So that's why it might be better for some things in this law to just define with certain rules, with certain programs whose change is much easier in fact, and much faster than just changing the law. And so, in fact, this law actually gets a much more flexible and efficient framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122839	Thank you. Buddy Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122840	When compared with some far more developed countries of the Republic of Croatia, a colleague of Lipoščak, then the ministry in those countries is running a strategy for you. So they deal exclusively with strategy. We too lack this in many areas and must know and the public must be clear, that unfortunately in that time of creation of the Croatian state we have passed the transition from one system to another, both the political, economic, war, refugees, transition, peaceful reintegration, the adaptation of the EU, and it is simply not possible to do so in such a short time. If we had only the ministries dealing with the strategy, and that on that vertical level when it is distributed according to the principle of subsidiarity of the unit of local administration and self-government, then a lot of things would look very different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122841	I thank my colleague Babic. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122842	Thank you. Here, when I was studying, my focus was usually regional development, so we did interesting research. We have studied these resources for assisted areas, for mountain-mounted areas and how they work because we used to have an effect, it should act that these cities come out of such areas as soon as possible, not to be helped anymore, to simply increase population density so that they are no longer mountain-mounted and when they are on that transition line no one wants, as everyone wants to be undeveloped because they get the funds. Then we did another interesting analysis, how they spend their money and then we saw that everyone has a lot of travel costs, everyone has some drivers, official cars, unlike some that are more developed. Then we asked a little bit why it was so, so you know we always have to run to Zagreb, we have to pull someone by the sleeve, because in fact it was some national means so focused and it was very interesting to see that you, along the sea, have richer municipalities, but they don't have a car, they don't have some big means of representation, so the funny question came up when it was meant to decide in the Split-Dalmatia County to finance textbooks, so when it was established that maybe there wasn't enough funds for everything then it was said so well, you more developed let's pay your basic textbooks and these underdeveloped ones, we'll pay them. And then there were questions of these developed, well, we can pay our primary school textbooks but there can be no cost of a small municipality that for a zero one less has a budget on lunches, dinners, bigger than ours, let them also focus a little on textbooks. So I would simply say now that I think this law is going in the right direction, I am not looking at these resources that are provided for mountain-mounted areas as funds that will develop mountain-mounted areas rather than help in implementing this law which requires that all resolutions, all resolutions make plans and measures to allocate funds to mountain-mountan and assisted areas. And what's the key to that word? We now have European funds, we keep mentioning, we had these national resources, we had this law, but nobody says how much bigger our budget is now because we have EU funds, so we're mountain-mounted, so everyone who's a little larger index of development can't even get close to that line, so they're all complaining, you're promoting for all of the EU funds, and they're not for us at all, they're for mountain-mounts, for the islands, for the supported ones, and nobody mentions that amount that's increasing. Of course, we're focusing now on those who are shrinking and that's all good and then campaigning in those hill-mounted and assisted waters to fight as much as the budget is spent on, you need to sell the car immediately, you need... The driver, when the new mayor comes, the mayor, the miracle, he calculates really for all the travel expenses he has to make, for all the lobbying, for his city, how many times he has to go to Zagreb, look I need that driver, I need that car and it's very funny there and when we look at the funds that we've been through the Balance Fund to some cities, so maybe it was more and maybe it hasn't returned enough, but the real question is what they're doing with that money now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at the beginning of the year, they weren't expecting these funds, they were reducing the cost or giving to the facilities, some were shutting down, they were firing down, and then you came in after a few years, and a year people told you so, look, our ambush has no light, we don't have a container or an end to the cemetery, our cemetery is buried with garbage, and it all looks like a disaster. People simply become deeply divided and therefore I certainly welcome this mountain card and I must say that when I look at other resors, other resors will not exactly assign to the municipality and the city that it distributes money for various activities across its inhabitants but will assign them to infrastructure, of course more often and when we look at farmers, they will come directly and then, on the basis of the advantages, get directly more funds. If we ask them you want your mayor to share with you that on the basis of equal criteria with clear points you get it, they would, though, maybe some would prefer to get the mayor those funds so they might be the ones who will get more, easier, but when you ask them, they still want it to go directly. Now this fama eye, colleague Branka also mentioned it about these funds in the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. We here sometimes divide into those who come from the hill-mounted mountains, who come from the assisted ones, who come from the island area. Now, the islanders somehow reacted differently, they discussed differently, and they're satisfied with the law, and as they're satisfied now we're all talking and their law is better, they're given a lot more, they have so much and so much resources. They were given 1.7 billion kuna in 2017, is that what the law says? It doesn't say. It says that for law enforcement, there were 181 million kunas and they received 1.7 billion kuna. Now the darkness is how much more expensive the land is on the islands, so they live better. Well, because they have higher costs for building infrastructure projects, if they're 300 euros square, if the initial self-procurement is some area, the country's authorities, so they already have 60 times the cost in the beginning and we forget the costs due to the separation, because of the ships. Now I'd like to say something constructive to watch out for myself. I already see that this law goes in this direction that maybe it won't happen anymore, that it requires all ministries to bring measures and plans that will help assisted areas and what happened in the rural development programme, not only in the rural development programme but also in national measures, I followed this part for agriculture. The benefits of the projects were high in mountain-mounted areas and islands and there were no assisted areas. We have a Cista Provo municipality, Chief Bozo Cubic, a wonderful chief warns me I fight with it all the time. So we've got cash-sold milk fees for mountain-mounted areas, aided completely from that. We had funds for small farmers, 15 get islanders, 15 mountainous areas. We have Vrgorac, Imotski, they're mountain-mounted and among them runovics, so PPDS, so even poorer, which we say in a joke, I need more help, they're gone. Their farmers show up for the competition, they're nowhere to be found, far below the line because we did a bad thing, in the competitions for the rural development program, it was enough just to be from the hill-mounted areas, that from the island, you weren't looking at the quality. Then there were, among us, people were saying, so look, we were in such a hurry, we have some simple structures, we have cracked the playground, we have no or no children, we have done it, we have done it all because, regardless of the quality, we have received a much greater advantage and it is not good and we have really damaged the cysta Provo and Runovića and all other assisted areas or areas that fall within the PPDS because they have all the characteristics of the mountain-mountin area, in our area some supported have no features of mountain-mountan but this one from the Imot region which I mention, which still has more Vrgorska krajina Vrgorac municipalities remained under one municipality, so it is a little different, so it is even more damaged, I believe that there may be such ones in the Sinj area and when you directly work with these problems, and it is really important that there are some of regional development that you do so much more. We had such a situation in rural tourism. So we had that used Table A and, that is, the classification into classes which is largely justified but largely not justified. Because why? The Ministry of Tourism or HTZ, I do not know now exactly who adopts this Regulation according to these established criteria, have adopted this Regulation with the aim of charging a residence tax rather than with a view to whether a large part of it may be needed, but it is a pity that there are parts that simply do not deserve that restriction and so on. So it's very important when we use a list, a table, these kind of areas, class classifications, and I think this law will make it possible because once again, one roof ministry is reviewing all these measures, it compares them. So everyone's bringing some kind of list for themselves. And when you're using it means a little study of it, think about it so that these really first competitions for and the rural development program that I'm following the most were very bad for those who helped the areas. And here's what I want to emphasize here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122843	Thank you. We have a replica. Dear colleagues of Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122844	Oh, here's just one interesting thing. The city of Zagreb, which generates 42% of the total income of all Croatian cities, has per capita in 2017. 8 thousand 177 kuna per head and 12 cities and even 33 municipalities have higher income per capita than the city of Zagreb, which is one interesting thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122845	Thank you. Here you go, pals. [[Thank you, you've got me right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122846	Thank you. So we also have these situations, let's say here's counterpart Ante knows about Zadvor so they have a small municipality, few inhabitants, but there's one of the largest hydropower plants in Croatia, or there's some big drive, and he's very much raising that income per capita. And indeed infrastructure and budget, these are very, very small budgets because income per capita is large but the population is 270. So, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122847	Thank you. Dear colleague Ante Babic replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122848	Here I thought you wouldn't let me, but in addition to that and also in favour of a respected minister, so it's very difficult for both the minister and the ministry to do what you are, you mentioned the cysta promo, so let's say that milk subsidies. So in the community itself, you have several settlements. So let's say the settlements of Aržano, known for its first death in the Homeland War, Josip Jovic, they have subsidies while the settlement, for example, does not have a Cista Provo. So it's not good for microlocations to create certain animosities when you say, let's say... They don't have it in these areas, then it's not good, but it's very difficult for the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We talked about it but it's good what you said since the law itself calls... certain other ministries, it shouldn't happen and then it actually creates confusion in the field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122849	Thank you. Dear colleague Vranjš, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122850	That's right, the Ministry of Regional Development here, and whatever and whenever it was, it didn't make a mistake. So that's what defined the mountainous mountains that were supported. But when others took those lists, they saw this mountainous mountainous mountain. And then simply now they have all the warrants to their extent and the programs within a short period of time to include all these specificities, and the sooner it would happen, the advantage of the score, there's an island, there's a mountain mountainous mountainous and somewhere that helped us and lost. And I don't know why, I'd even talk to some colleagues, so they say, and that's something they do, whatever war, assisted areas they are, they have characteristics with us mostly and mountainous mountainous but we'd say they're even more miserable and sadder. I mean, it sounds ugly, but they'd joke like that, so don't forget them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122851	I thank my colleague Vranj. We have a final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the debate will be shared by colleagues Pranic and colleagues Bulj. Here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122852	Thank you, Vice President. To sum up on behalf of the MOST Club today's debate after all the presentations of individual parliamentary representatives' clubs. There is no regional development policy, even development without greater allocation of national resources, regardless of the resources they have made available in the EU's grants. We cannot rely on these funds unless we really intend to extinguish the demographic breakdown of the rural area of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should also answer this simple question, whether financially strengthening the national resources of the Ministry of Regional Development or, when we sum up today's presentations, we say the Ministry of Agriculture gives some funding, the Ministry of Transport gives some funding, Croatian forests give some funding, Croatian waters give some funding, the Ministry of Demography gives some funding. So if we have all these ministries that give something, and in the financial envelope, the Ministry of Regional Development sees that it doesn't give as much as it should, or there's no exposure, why the Ministry of Regional Development? Let's attach it to the Ministry of Finance. Not that I have anything against employees of the Ministry of Regional Development who are doing their job in accordance with legal possibilities. So you're looking at the financial envelopes that we have within the state budget, because it's all going from money to money, how much money we have, and so the music says the old proverb. And I do repeat that there is no national policy on the even development of Croatia without greater isolation. Today we are discussing a law that regulates life on two-thirds of Croatia's surface. When are we discussing this law? We're discussing here now in the late 21.36 hours final report the last day before Parliament's disbandment for this year. There'll be a vote tomorrow. I mean, what kind of picture of us, we say what kind of picture we send to the rural area of the Republic of Croatia, like we send from this Assembly ton, I don't know, let some, future, positive deeds or I don't know what, optimism, when we're discussing the last day. So if the rural area of the Republic of Croatia was really the most affected demographically, we should have discussed this a lot sooner. The President of the Parliament was due when the government last week gave this immediately to Monday or Tuesday for debate, in the morning. Indeed, if we want to have a constructive discussion of all clubs, not like this, given the last day, and then when you ask what kind of picture we're sending. Well, we're sending the painting exactly as the President of the Parliament has put this law on the agenda. It is not a matter that, according to my colleague Bulju, Mr Babić, it would not be debated, according to my colleague Bulju and us from MOST based on the State budget today, we would be discussing an envelope that would be minimally larger for 50 million kunas only for mountainous mountain areas, not to mention the assisted area. And it's really flexible to say that there's no money in the state budget, there's money, there's planes being bought. But if the rural area of the Republic of Croatia continues to be evicted like this, it will become a reserve in 20 years, without people, and who will be guarded by these planes? The naked rock we're going back to, and you and I, the day after tomorrow by car. It will remain from Dalmatia's Zagora, and trends cannot change without fire measures, national fire measures by our roof Regional Development Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122853	I thank my colleague Pranic, my colleague Bulj. Comrade Babic, please don't disturb your colleague while he's discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122854	And extra time. Someone said it was a mountainous mountain, a colleague said, undeveloped, even worse, the fairest, I'm proud that Zagora gave birth to me in the middle of a gray stone. This law does not bring good to you, neither does Zagora, nor does it bring you Licens, nor Slavons, nor does it bring you anything from the Qur'an. This is one of the most common pamphlets of pirates that brings more damage to regional development, in fact, if this doesn't change, and this envelope on the amount level, this is that the Minister stole Christmas from those areas, but sent them a message that the Government of the Republic of Croatia absolutely doesn't care about these areas. This law is a pure pear pamphlet. Minister, this is one of the biggest embarrassments to 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122855	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We are moving on to a debate on behalf of the promoter-respecting Minister Gabriela Žalac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122856	Representatives, here I thank you for this lengthy debate on our 3 bill proposals, but no, I just don't see the real purpose of what you've been saying and in everything you've been reporting because it's really, really, you just don't read the concepts, and you don't know how fiscal responsibility goes in the direction of other laws, nor do you know how direction goes, meaning, financially, precisely in the original budgets of the units of local self-government, and let's talk about these two laws. First of all, Mr. Bulj, you're very sweet and sweet to me, you and Mr. Pranic in your shirts, but maybe it's better if Zagora didn't give birth to you because what you said today and how much demagogue you're dealing with, I don't think that because you're here in the Assembly, you'll be better off there. As far as [[Intruder: Dear Minister...]] Here, okay, I accept, but you have to [[/Intruder: Dear Minister, I would only ask that you do not address the MPs in such a way.]] Then be there because you defend us in government [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] When Parliamentarians speak to us like that [[Intruder: Only you]] And all that they do together [[Don't worry.]] When we talk about the Regional Development Act, you must first know that it has nothing to do with the absorption of European funds, it has to do with indexation, it has to do with co-financing, so projects. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] However, with the absorption of funds, there is another Act, called the Law on an institutional framework on the control system of the European Funds. That's what you should know as a councilman. When we talk about how you presented your financial charts, this government has nothing to do with it, the SDP government, at that point, abolished, so the original incomes and took it into some other kind of, meaning, state budget finance, and not above all, local budgets. We're the ones who brought it back, two billion kunas of return revenue when we're talking about the Finance Act, we're absolutely not going to ignore it. My colleague Zdravko Marić and I have worked together on this, have 3 pillars relating to fiscal capacity, relating to regional development, relating to support, measures etc. What your table says in addition, you can ask, here, exactly and those who work on it in the Association of Cities, which and how they think and how they think and what they get, means, from this government they've got more than ever, we have to say, not only through the original incomes, but through these laws. What the Island Act has, I will repeat again what I said in the opening statement, which is the Islands Act absolutely has items of billions and 700, which this HS has been reported entirely, a billion thousand kuna investments in 2017. At our ministry's level, there's some of them all together when we add up about 140 million kunas. This is what these two laws will achieve now, cumulatively means capital investment in an assisted mountainous area. When we talk about the scope of the area, of course we will bring in within 60 days, as it says in the Law, the government will bring in, meaning, covering the mountainous mountainous area that will be, by the criteria that I have set absolutely something that is much better than before, that will enter and analyse the criteria that absolutely give for the right to say, that we have done a very good job. When we talk about it, when the SDP says that we need some kind of Christmas box at the Gorski kotar and so on, I think that you should go with us, you're our member of the Committee on Regional Development, you didn't say anything there, Mr. Mateo, but here, that box is full, finally and people are very pleased, because we were in the field the day before yesterday, so you can ask, the mayors and mayors, regardless of what options and how satisfied they are with the creation of the Law on mountainous areas and measures that we are planning. In particular, I can't believe it means this division, the funds, to the number of units of local self-government, to which it's being waste, means when the MP says 100 kn per unit will get mountainous mountainous areas, it's simply incorrect. And please do not deceive the Croatian public here in the representative body about your allegations, which are absolutely incorrect. Fully incorrect and completely irrelevant. I think that for a year, in this same place, we're going to talk about these laws, in a way that you might be pleasantly shocked by how many investments, in which area it's done through all the resistors. Logically, Croatia's roads will work one story, that another state-owned company will do a third story, that each ministry will intervene in a particular area. In particular, I would like Mr Pranic to have all this money in one place, as well as in our ministry, however, as other funds are absolutely responsible for other fellow ministers and I think that the corrected work that we are doing around the EU funds and regional development has certainly shown very good results so far. I know it's very difficult to admit that our party is growing exponentially and that we actually have the perfect right to choose HDZ's card instead of Mostov's or don't give God any other, but I think we should say openly for everything that we've done in regional development so far has not been seen, so 6 times already the means but ever, I think, in addition to this absolute data that we've presented in your proposal. What I want to say to end is that, I am sure that these funds will help track what needs to be prepared in all our areas, and that is where we mention intervention plans that we are doing from European funds, I don't see a reason, give me a reasonable reason for the budget, why we would spend state resources if we have European funds to do intervention plans in the war affected areas, what we have on the map of poverty of the World Bank, established as such an area in which a certain intervention should be done, you can look at all indicators of the EU funds, of course you can also say whatever you want 60% agreed jump of 480% in all indicators, speaks in favour of how our ministry works and how it will work better and better, in particular, in coordination with mayors, mayors. I think that indeed, there is no one in this sense to object, and in particular we are proud, I personally as Minister of Regional Development, with all the government meetings that we held outside the City of Zagreb, because most of us are not from the City of Zagreb, but are working in the City of Zagreb for these areas in all parts of Croatia, and I am going to be absolutely in favour of those decisions, which, not only then, are they taking part in the signing of contracts in these areas, and we really need to be exclusively and only proud of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122857	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122858	The violation of Rules of Procedure of the 238th Minister has been submitted to the lady and wished that Zagora should not have given birth to us, but she gave birth to us, and I know that's your problem. I'm glad you're here as a Slavonic, but I've heard a lot of things here. If I were a log, that I was a chap, that I don't know everything that was, Ambassador, not that I'm Miro Bulj from Sinj got a lot of votes, and as a parliamentary representative I have the right to fight. But how much damage you have done to this law, my end, it is my duty to speak as a parliamentary representative. You wish I hadn't been born in Dalmatian Zagora, you want sheep here, not shepherds, I know. It's a party wish list for you, that you only have raisers' hands, that you need sheep and not shepherds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122859	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I asked the Minister not to address such a dictionary, so there was no need for that, but well, you used your right. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122860	238. Art. 238. concerning the statement by the Minister about the birth of my Dalmatian Zagora, I will answer in a business manner like this with one sentence from the Dalmatian Fire, for more than 1,000 years this people have lived on this stone and every stone therefore, 100 times with the blood, but they did not give away. And... The Tatar, and the Turks, and the Milks, and the Germans, and the Hungarians, and every devil of hell, and the people, and their blood, are born again from the blood, and the roots are brought forth, and are made deeper into stone, and is now willingly made of stone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when he rests alive, he dies alone. It will be your destiny in the rural area of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122861	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. The same answer as my colleagues, Bulju, here you are, colleagues Peric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122862	The same Article. The 238th here is colleague Bulj calling all others and especially us from the ruling coalition sheep, which is quite inappropriate, if he feels so, we do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122863	I thank my colleague Peric, I have warned my colleagues of expression and we are moving on to the next line, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122864	I'm glad you brought out this model of funding, because it's just giving us a break from that model of sleeve movement. And somehow, here we have heard and how the people of Dalmatia behave, but also often tell us don't complain, the community from which I come is today a rich municipality and often they can object to me you don't know how we, even though those who know me best, know that I come from such a municipality, but that I bring a lot of money with my work, just these less developed municipalities, this municipality was the least developed municipality in Split-Dalmatia County in '90. years and 20 could divide the budget of that municipality, and now the second most developed and unable to understand politics means give us the funds for kindergarten to build it, give us the aunts and pay the mayor to work in that city, because we didn't work that way. Exactly how I managed to work in this organization that I do because unlike others, I did not ask the municipality to finance my salary, but I provided it from the European Funds and for another 5.6 people by 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122865	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Vranesh. Do you want to answer the Minister's question? No, thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122866	Thank you very much, ma'am. You've obviously taken this criticism on the side of the opposition regarding this law too personally. You're not in this place Regional Development Ministers to make it easy for you, on the contrary you're just about to find it difficult, and I know it's hard for you, but that's your part of the job. And don't ignore our experience at this level and what we know and don't ignore our criticisms when they're affirmative, especially if they're not even in a plenary debate but on committees and so don't insult us, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122867	Thank you very much, ma'am. You've obviously taken this criticism on the side of the opposition regarding this law too personally. You're not in this place Regional Development Ministers to make it easy for you, on the contrary you're just about to find it difficult, and I know it's hard for you, but that's your part of the job. And don't ignore our experience at this level and what we know and don't ignore our criticisms when they're affirmative, especially if they're not even in a plenary debate but on committees and so don't insult us, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122868	Next is the Final Proposal of the Law on mountainous mountain areas, second reading, P.Z. No. 412. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives Siniša Hajdas Dončić and Marko Vesligaj, the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, MP Miro Bulj, representative Željko Jovanovic, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, reformists and independent representatives. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds Velimir Zunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122869	So first, let's start with the amendment of his representative, Sinisha Hajdash Donacic, Vice President of the Parliament, and two, together with his colleague, Mark Vesligaj. The amendment is not accepted. The status of mountainous mountainous areas has been established on the basis of a methodology adopted by the European Commission defining mountainous mountainous areas at unit level of local self-government in such a way that mountainous mountainous areas are considered by those units of local self-government where at least 50% of the area meets defined criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122870	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Sinisha Hajdash Donicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122871	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. And respected secretary of state, the practice you mentioned, is therefore not uniform because local development and policy development has different approaches in theoretical thinking and in practical judgment. So this is more like a vague concept that is dependent on the political criteria that you have stated. So it's possible to bring it down to the village level because this is how you create a discriminatory approach. For example. in my Zagorje in Krapina-Zagorje County, where there are 32 units of local administration and self-government, there will be injustices because some settlements will be left out of those areas because of the flat-rate component of the municipality or city, so people will be discriminated against and other neighbouring banks as we enter the mountainous mountainous area of Zagorje that will experience or have the right to certain privileges. Now, what I'm going to tell you, just the ones you've been calling for the EU, so the EU has been changing the concept of archaic approach to local and regional development since 2010, so let's say... which respects territorial capital and territorial capital makes local assets and the local activity actually makes them the smallest nukes of the smallest places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I am therefore afraid that if such a law passes in Croatia that, as is the case with Pike and Rodriguez in 2003, we will already announce that just because of such attempts or poor attempts that there will be only three winning regions in Croatia, and this will be a large Metropolitan area of the type of Zagreb, some urban agglomerations and tourist regions, it will be the third winners and all of this may, perhaps, be recognised today, no one will live anymore, people will move out, and therefore I ask about the amendment of my colleague Mark Velligay and the one we wrote together to seek the Honored Vice President of the Assembly vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122872	Thank you. The next amendment is the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, the second amendment of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122873	That amendment is not accepted. The financing of measures to promote the development of mountainous mountainous mountainous areas is ensured or normised by other legal regulations within the framework of the competent resolutions and additional resources are part of the measures planned, additional resources for part of the measures are planned for the division of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds in the framework of budgetary activity and the development of mountainous mountainous areas. The measures shall be in the jurisdiction of the other resistor and shall be governed by another regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122874	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122875	Thank you very much. So, what we were saying in the debate and in the first reading of this law is another scam of the inhabitants of mountainous mountainous areas, especially Gorski Kotar. The mountains are again played and your entire law is non-transparent, discriminating unambitious and measures that should be a clear indication of how to help the population of Gorski Kotar and mountainous mountainous areas do not have them. So as I've said it several times, I'm going to say it again, and now it's like having a gift wrapped in colorful paper and a colorful ribbon, and when you roll the box, there's nothing in the box. We therefore insisted that Article 12 clearly state at least some of the measures that are essential for ensuring better quality living in mountainous mountainous areas, especially Gorski Kotar, so I will read that citizens hear what you refuse to law. Therefore, covering the costs of the winter service and the rehabilitation of roads caused by climate conditions, free roads on the highway towards Zagreb and Rijeka for Gorski Kotar and some other routes in other areas, subsidising public transport, amending the rules relating to the allocation of land and forest economic grounds in the part of the regulation and release of fees for the settlement of property and legal relations, ensuring the payment of fair municipal compensation for capital national corridors and buildings in mountain-mountal areas, co-financing of directorial costs and salaries of teachers in primary schools in the mountain-mountan area, including primary schools with less than 5 pupils, ensuring effective primary health protection of the mountain-mountan area, ensuring the availability of the mangers and kindergartens in the mountain-mountan area, relief for entrepreneurs in the mountain-mountan area. So when a small family is thinking about whether to stay in the Gorski Kotar, it takes your law to find a reason to stay and read it, it will be packed even faster because there is nothing in this law that will ensure the recovery of mountainous and mountainous areas including the Gorski Kotar. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122876	Thank you. The 3rd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122877	That amendment is not accepted. Key measures for the development of mountainous and mountainous areas are prescribed by law and the adoption of a mountain and mountainous area development programme in which key stakeholders will participate to identify and develop concrete measures for the development of these areas within the framework of their work cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122878	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122879	With this amendment, we have actually asked for further measures other than those to protect the environment and nature, measures to build energy systems from renewable energy sources, housing measures. But no matter what measures you've asked me to accept this now, you wouldn't have a financial envelope or you'd have a financial envelope to implement everything that's beautifully written in the law because also from that envelope in the Ministry of Regional Development, on... the national budget for 2019 with projections in 2021 and 2022 amounts to only 40 million kuna per year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just to point out, in the last four years the cities and municipalities of the existing law have currently lost 560 million kuna cumulatively. I don't know if anyone has read these amendments at all, if they've been able to read at all since last night's debate ended at 10 and a half, so that today all the amendments will be rejected, and I can see that there's not a single comrade from the mountainous areas that come from the ruling majority. And you reject the measure of environmental protection and nature. Well only in the hill-mounted area do you have NP Risnjak, North Velebit, PP Biokovo, Papuk, Učka, Žumberak, Velebit. Apart from national parks, there are many springs of all rivers. ... No environmental protection measures are mentioned and you refuse to allow such a measure to be in the future programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122880	Dear MPs and MPs, it is my pleasure to welcome Mrs. Joy Mogensen, Mayor of the Danish town of Roskild, who is visiting the Croatian Parliament, so let's welcome her. And now we're going to the Fourth Amendment to this law by Representative Miro Bulj. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122881	That amendment is not accepted. And the explanation is exactly the same for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122882	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122883	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, I am sorry that there was no minister here who was obliged to read the amendments but her wishes were greater if it hadn't been for me and my colleague Pranic to be born at all, but it would not have been heard of mountainous and undeveloped areas in the Republic of Croatia if it hadn't been for me and my colleagues Pranic last night and for some other colleagues. I'm sorry there are more representatives of the opposition at this point than most. And that's exactly how most of the votes were won in mountainous and undeveloped areas. What bothers you with environmental protection measures? All the parks listed by my colleague Pranic, which bothers you to protect my river Cetina, which bothers you with the protection of Krka, which bothers you with the rest of the rivers in the karst area, Slavonia and the hilly area? - In the Gorski Kotar? It is, sustainable development is the only thing we have. What bothers you with the housing measures for young people in the area? But you didn't give enough here, your envelope isn't enough for this part, for this many areas, 85 local self-government, not more than 45 as colleagues gave but I don't know at all what units of local self-government, this is PR law. Your ministry is the worst since withdrawing funds from the EU, Croatia is the worst because of your ministry. You're the ministry that this law puts the last nail into a two-thirds coffin of Croatia. This law that doesn't have a financial envelope, 40 million kuna, 85 units of local self-government and we don't know what they are. That's more than embarrassing. You stole Christmas 2/3 of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122884	Thank you very much. Amendment number five has been withdrawn. Amendment number 6 of the club's representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122885	Therefore, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted. As I have already said, key measures for the development of mountainous and mountainous areas are prescribed by law and the adoption of a mountain-mounted development programme in which key stakeholders will be involved to establish and develop concrete measures for the development of these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122886	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122887	Dear Secretary of State, we have specifically asked this amendment to add the word and "tourism revitalisation" because I see no reason why the Dalmatian Zagora should not follow as guidelines for the development of the French province of Provanza or why Gorski Kotar could not develop all its tourist potential if we do not know in Slovenia or in the area of Italy, France similar geomorphological and tourist potentials. In particular, Dalmatinska Zagora won the best rural tourist destination award this year on the days of tourism in Hvar. But in the mountainous mountainous area law, which is a roof law for the development of the area, tourism is mentioned simply to mention. There is no mention of measures at all, nor are you predicting them in art. 20 in the programmes, and if you're going to tell them that it's meant for the tourism ministry just like I heard the discussions last night that a measure by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, is envisaged, so what do we need from the Ministry of Regional Development? If all some measures of revitalisation are predicted through other ministries, then the Regional Development Ministry should be abolished. Or what we suggest, let it be strengthened, let an additional envelope be given, that is, to honour all those amendments to the state budget that we have proposed for both the assisted and the mountainous mountainous areas. And fellow parliamentary representatives who come from that area, when they see the board of Zagreb, forget which areas they come from, then raise their hands, obediently as someone tells them and in turn rejects all the financial resources that should actually serve the development of their areas. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122888	The 7th Amendment is a representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122889	That amendment shall not be accepted, and the explanation shall be entirely identical to that of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122890	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122891	I didn't expect anything else, because you didn't have time to read what we suggested because you gave this most important law for 2/3 of Croatia, these two laws, this package, and now we're talking about mountainous mountaineering as the last item of the agenda before the constitutional break. And look, look at this side where most of them are, how many MPs are from the mountainous mountainous area. Let all MPs from the majority who are from the mountainous mountainous here raise their hands, where are the representatives of the 9th and 10th? So that you are bothered by this to promote them touristically and to have the means to promote the most important continental part and the most beautiful part of the Republic of Croatia, from Dalmatia Zagora, to Gorski Kotar, to Zagorje and these beautiful areas that have been forgotten, like, the heart of Croatia, a third of Croatia, an empty part. It bothers you, it bothers you when you say you need energy, clean energy, that we need to pay, that we need to ensure that they are microsolars, of course they bother you, that it's better to have a Perun thermal power plant that will damage our, damage to make ecological, economic and strategic in the area where we have the largest drinking water pool. Microsolares in the area would solve the energy independence of these people. However, this p.r. The law you gave is really below every level, that's what I said yesterday. I asked the Minister to withdraw this law. And I'm sorry that there are no colleagues here from the majority who are from the area, mountainous mountainous area, here let the people see and ask, if there are cameras, if you haven't interrupted the transmission, to see how many people, MPs who are obliged to represent the people at this point have in the Parliament. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122892	Thank you very much. The 8th Amendment is a Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122893	The amendment is not accepted, as I have already noted, the key measures for the development of mountainous mountainous areas are prescribed by law and envisaged by the adoption of a mountainous mountainous area development programme, which will be attended by key stakeholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122894	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122895	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State. We are in this amendment. 20. add a boost to competitiveness and agriculture growth through support for activities that are important for the economic development of the mountainous mountainous area. You have not mentioned agriculture at all, which is extremely important and part of people as the primary source of income and part of people as a secondary source of income. Just in Dalmatian Zagora, look, Sinjsko polje, Imotsko polje, Vrbovski polje, not to mention part of the interior of Istria, not to mention the Gorski kotar, Lica. And instead of helping these people, what's happening right now is you've got a tender open for measure 6.3 where those extra points for the mountainous mountainous area are lifted. Today, too, we are talking about the Law on the mountainous mountainous area, which should encourage the development of the rest of the people in the area. And parallel to the second ministry, additional points are being removed for mountainous mountainous areas. We tried to correct it, to put it in, at least in this part, to make it possible at least legally, because I guess this government won't last forever, some other government will come to think of rural areas of Croatia, which will know how to provide funds that we already have within the framework of the law, measures to help agriculture, in the mountainous mountainous area. With this rejection, you're preventing it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122896	The 9th Amendment is the Honorable Representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122897	The proposed amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122898	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122899	As a representative from the mountainous mountainous area, one of the biggest problems is agriculture, and we are witnessing and we know who the potentials have mountainous areas for agriculture. In this 40 million kn envelope, agriculture absolutely doesn't matter to you. Today we have that in the mountainous mountainous areas of 2018 that Cetina goes through the Sinj field and we do not have systematic irrigation. Imagine the secretary coming from America who deals with agriculture that someone at your level is a state official from Israel where Cetina more in one day throws out its source, a clean drinking source of water than all the sources in Israel and the entire part of that continent. And we don't have a irrigation system, there's ambrosia growing, because you didn't allow people to irrigate and we have a river Cetina, and in the Vrgoraška field, and in Imotski, and in Drniška, so in the entire area of Gorski Kotar, like, Zagorje, in these beautiful areas and if we have something to show our tourists, you've made all the laws not to give, that the gastro offer of our domestic and OPG development. You forbid half-board tenants to give their food, sell, uh, i.e. to your guests. Why? To take advantage of the great lobbys is the interest of the lobby that they represent in the government is not to develop agriculture in this area, but to buy foreign goods, bad goods, bad food. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, and it's embarrassing the behavior of most parliamentary deputies here from my areas that aren't here. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122900	Thank you. The 10th Amendment is the club of representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122901	The amendment is not accepted. Key measures for the development of mountainous mountainous mountainous areas are laid down in the Law and are foreseen for the adoption of a mountainous mountainous area development programme in which key stakeholders will participate to identify and develop concrete measures for the development of all these areas in the framework of their work cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122902	Dear Representative Pranic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122903	Dear Secretary of State, this amendment has defined one measure of co-financing for pre-school education to local self-government units located in the mountainous mountainous area of the Ministry of Regional Development. Take a look at the prices of kindergartens in towns and municipalities located in the mountainous mountainous area and see the price of kindergartens in Zagreb, so you will see the difference. And what makes the difference? They do not have cities and municipalities from the mountainous mountainous area of fiscally strong capacity to co-finance the price of the stay of children in kindergartens. We asked for additional investment or we asked for nothing else, but we asked for what the EU insisted on in 2002 in Barcelona, in the Strategic Document, which set the goal of 90 % of children being in kindergartens, 30 % of children in mangers. See where the Republic of Croatia is today? We're last and we're here. We barely pass 59%, the first one is Cyprus with 74%, this is what is missing in the rural area and our education system is not equal and not all children have equal rights in both rural and urban areas. There are abnormally large differences, to equalize these differences, which should be your interest in the Ministry of Regional Development because this is your primary goal and the basic task should be to equalize it or to have equal rights, and above all, our children, therefore we have defined these measures of co-financing of pre-school education, but obviously it is rejected. A paradox will happen to you to help the mountainous mountainous area, to build a garden from this European Agricultural Fund, and who will pay the employees? So how is a small town and a municipality with an unaccountable 5 million kuna income going to finance a 3 million kuna kindergarten, regular growth? That's impossible. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122904	The 11th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122905	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122906	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122907	In 2015, the Republic of Croatia had only 19.9% of children in the nursery, and 50% of children in kindergarten. And we are at the bottom of the EU on this, at the very bottom. So let's know that research has shown that children who don't have the possibility of being in kindergarten from 3rd to 6th year, 17 times have a less chance of getting a higher education, that's what research has shown. And our demographics say it's the most important step, so our children have every possibility of kindergarten. Not as a guardianship of some kind for babysitting, but as an educational institution, where they gain knowledge, children in the mountainous mountainous area generally do not have the possibility. Some counties from the mountainous mountainous area of local self-government and no kindergarten, and your 40 million kuna envelope where you listed this, simply to accept, you couldn't achieve this, if you didn't care about this, the government cared more about how to solve the Prime Minister's problem in Crimea, in the conflict of Russia and Ukraine, but the mountainous mountainous area. And that is the problem why me and my colleague Pranic were born, and we will fight for the Dalmatian Zagora, for Lika, for Gorski Kotar, for all the undeveloped parts, Slavonia, for all the parts that are forgotten. We are not interested in who will be on the list, this people are not interested in who will be on the list and what will be Andrej Plenkovic in the Council of Europe, we are interested in keeping that people in this area and I believe and I am sending a message to this people that we will fight together and that this end will survive on that gray stone, on that ferocious one. You won't destroy it. I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122908	The 12th Amendment is identical to the club of the representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122909	That amendment is not accepted. Key measures for the development of mountainous mountainous mountainous areas are prescribed by the Law and the adoption of a programme for the development of mountainous mountainous areas in which key stakeholders will participate to identify and develop concrete measures for the development of these areas in the framework of their part-round work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122910	Dear Representative Pranic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122911	In this programme that you state, there are no measures to encourage the construction of a renewable energy system, this would be the subject of this Amendment, which you obviously reject, and our intensity was environmental protection because we know that mountainous mountainous areas from the national parks themselves, nature parks to water streams, starting points and rivers of larger ones require additional protection of the environment and nature. In addition, the promotion of the construction of a renewable energy system is important for the sustainability of the water supply system because the water supply system is extremely catastrophic in the mountainous mountainous part of the Republic of Croatia. Where is the highest price of water in the Republic of Croatia? The highest price of water is right in the mountainous mountainous area, as public suppliers must pay enormous amounts of electricity to pump. And instead of paying HEP or some other distributors why not build sustainable solar energy-based systems, that we can finally have our citizens, our entrepreneurs compete with the rest of Croatia. We have predicted through such amendments that the possibility of a much larger envelope can be provided over a future period because this envelope I say of 40 million kuna is extremely funny. But it is obviously not about sustainability or building renewable energy sources, nor is it about protecting the environment. It's all in one word, it's a sustainable economy, to you it's obviously not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122912	Okay, thank you. The text is identical to the 13th Amendment of Representative Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122913	That amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122914	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122915	So what to say, all we have are our natural beauty only and the ends of our mountain mountainous areas that can be sustainable development and what has potential. We have the biggest day in Europe, the day of God-given sunbathing, and we don't use microsolars. MOST of Independent Lists has given the microsolars law to provide microsolars in these areas of families that are poor. What you pay for wind power incentives is 2.5 billion kuna citizens, a billion suppliers, that's 2.5 billion kuna. You could have built microsolars on every facility in the entire Republic of Croatia and protected the meaning of our man as a manufacturer. Not that someone has a monopoly like certain projects, as they push, and that foreign owners of these companies are pulling that money out of us, you don't want it. And local self-government in the area raises huge money to keep the poor warm. You didn't see it coming, it's very important. Not only would they ensure the safety of our energy team in this area but they would be producers, entrepreneurship would be launched and we should use this and we have the largest number of sunny days. What's the reason you're refusing this amendment? What's the reason? And we see what our Rules of Procedure has led to that there are none here from most of them from the mountainous mountainous area, not a single representative, who has been elected from those lists. And it disappoints me. Let the people see who's representing. I demand a vote on this amendment to ensure the energy security of our families in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122916	Thank you. The 14th amendment is also the club of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122917	The amendment is not accepted. Key measures for the development of mountainous mountainous areas are prescribed by law and are foreseen for the adoption of a mountainous mountainous area development programme in which key stakeholders will participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122918	On behalf of the club, respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122919	Dear Secretary of State, since your arguments are absolutely every amendment, I don't know if anyone in the ministry has read this amendment at all. We have requested this amendment to improve the environmental protection system. As I said in the mountainous mountainous area of Croatia you have several nature parks and several national parks. Local self-government units do not have sufficient fiscal capacity to build a disposal system, to build recycling yards, to rehabilitate landfills. And just through the installation of one of these parts, we could do what you say tomorrow, which I'm telling you in advance that there is not enough fiscal capacity to help the local self-government units for project documentation or to build all those systems that are important and important for improving the environmental protection system. The most natural values of this Croatia are also located in Dalmatia Zagora and in the area of Gorsko Kotar and part of Croatia Zagorje. And what kind of image and message do we send if we refuse to improve the environmental protection system? We leave to local self-government units that, with existing fiscal capacities that are small, I have only told you in the area of mountainous mountainous part of the table of these 45 existing cities in the last 4 years, 560 million kuna have been lost. We haven't lost, it's lost our citizens, so it's no wonder that 12 thousand people have fewer of us and there will be even less of us by voting these laws that don't have financial coverage. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122920	Thank you. The 15th amendment, which is identical, was submitted by the respected representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122921	That amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122922	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122923	Of course it's not accepted when you obviously didn't have it when you didn't even read it. Here, the mountainous mountainous mountainous area is rich in natural resources and sustainable development and our specificities that we have from the water source of the rivers we have to protect these areas, submarines, numerous rivers that spring but we do not. We are the place to protect these areas by law because we already have a problem in Split because of the Adriatic that there is no water for households and will now have to connect to Cetina, of course. However, we at the same time regional waste disposal work in the heart of the Dalmatian Burn, in the heart of the Dalmatian Burn and the speleologists say in research that we have a large number of caves that are connected to the sink, rivers of sinks that go and connect with Cetina, Krka, Zrmanja and all rivers that are significant resources in the Republic, we are rich in drinking water, we have the largest pool of drinking water, the lake is Peruca at this moment, the pool of drinking water, the whole Zagora is a karst area, and you dump waste you work in the heart of the Dalmatian burn and you threaten this greatest potential and resource, they know the Splits who have a problem when Jadro gets confused, they know what the problem is, you obviously, it's the only concern of the government that is painted when it comes and gives false promises and projects that 10 times promises. So, you had to secure the funds so that it wouldn't be in the heart of the Dalmatian burn at the springs of the drinking rivers, so it wouldn't be a dump. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122924	Thank you. The 16th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122925	The amendment is not accepted. And as I have already said several times, therefore, key measures for the development of mountainous mountainous areas are prescribed by the Law, and the adoption of a mountainous mountainous area development programme, which will include key stakeholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122926	On behalf of the club, respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122927	Yes, Secretary of State, there will be a programme, but we have asked for measures and improvements to public tourist infrastructure within that programme. Well, it's not likely that in this government, which is often in Brussels, the problem is to rewrite how the largest tourist destinations in the mountainous mountainous parts of Italy, France, Austria, Switzerland were created. Now imagine a paradox of what happens to the mountainous mountainous space of the Republic of Croatia. As Western European countries develop this area as a tourist destination, these areas with the same natural beauty are empty. And we give this nothing but the possibility of improving public tourist infrastructure essential for the development of a cycle of tourism, various paths and the like. as an additional incentive measure to develop rural tourism, and indeed we have to boast, as you know, once again I will highlight Dalmatia Zagora has received the first prize this year as a destination for rural tourism in the Republic of Croatia. This is one side activity that is growing exponentially rapidly. We all know what happens to tourism in Dalmatinska Zagora, it should also happen to the tourism of Gorski Kotar, but as far as we care about all this, it says that in the Law on mountainous mountainous areas you do not mention tourist infrastructure at all. We are left to the Ministry of Tourism, where there are absolutely no additional points, or criteria for whether anyone comes from a mountainous mountainous area. It's all settled in the same basket. And you, as a roof Ministry of Regional Development, do not foresee any measures to develop tourism in the mountainous mountainous area. So it's no shame to overwrite measures from Western Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122928	The 17th Amendment is identical, and submitted by the honourable representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122929	The amendment is not accepted by reason as in the previous Amendment, with the addition that tourism is certainly one of the branches of the economy, and is developed in all types of tourism, as well as environmental protection is encouraged by this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122930	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122931	Thank you very much. The mountainous mountainous areas are the greatest possibility of tourism development. 20% of tourism that we have GDP, certainly we can have a lot more, much more because it's a terrible potential in these parts. However, we must have tourist infrastructure and membership fees, for example. HTs paid by companies go to Zagreb, doesn't stay in those places where HT operates. Everything in Zagreb is centralized, not enough, and we have huge potential, it is not enough just to come to the days of Alka, the Great Lady, to Sinjska Alk, to be honored, we are friendly and that day to be true and to drink, which triba, we have a good gastro offer, it pays citizens from the budget and leave, and then the students. And the greatest potential, as well as for the high-rise ham, and the dregish ham, as you visit it, especially in the pre-election time, disappears from the merciless, merciless, and here you do not want to increase the infrastructure, and I am sorry that these people who are on the days of ham in Vrgorec, on the days of the insolent prosciutto, on the days of Sinjska Alka and the Great Lady, which they are not now here in the Parliament, are sorry that they are not present in the Parliament, to represent their people who choose them, without painting from the mountainous mountainous areas, I say gentlemen. It is my duty to protect you, it is not easy for you that none of the MPs from the majority are here from mountainous mountainous areas, is this a problem for you, is it a problem that the minister tells you that we were born at all, that Ante Pranic, that you brought to this, that I cannot tell the biggest enemy man, that the animal would not say that, that is your pro European path, your solving the problem of Crimea, Ukraine, and the Dalmatian Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar, you don't care. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122932	The 18th Amendment is the Most Independent List.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122933	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122934	Dear Representative Pranic, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122935	I really don't know the reason why the amendment requires a co-financing measure for the installation of renewable energy sources, public facilities, kindergartens and schools. Instead of thus encouraging further co-financing of renewable energy sources, we all know that local self-government units from the mountainous mountainous area do not have sufficient fiscal capacity and co-financing by installing renewable energy sources is not in 100% form. With this amendment, we were looking for one possibility to make up for this difference from the Ministry of additional regional development from your resources and if I say for the 90th time that these 40 million kunas are not enough but to understand in which direction we think that the mountain and mountainous area of Croatia should be developed,... Like all the other amendments don't matter, and what counterpart Babic said last night in his presentation, he says, I read the amendments, they're good, but you're not an Ante from HDZ, so I can't be accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the policy that is happening in Croatia, so there is an amendment here that will find a gold mine in the mountainous and mountainous region of Croatia, you would reject it only because it does not bear the name of a party or a political option that supports the parliamentary majority. And then we wonder why people move out of Croatia. They're moving out, and they're gonna move out even more. Personally, with my colleague Bul, we will not remind Delnice, Gorski kotar, when a meter of snow falls, when you just have to take a picture by the rave, we will remind him much more, explain all these amendments, explain the complete law so that people and there are 190 000, know what awaits them by this new law. There's nothing waiting for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122936	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Pranic: Of course.]] The 19th amendment is also a MOST of independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122937	The proposed amendment is not accepted. The Mountain and Mountain Development Programme will define key development measures for these areas and also introduce new forms of support for the areas covered by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122938	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Bulj. No, the Honorable Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122939	Although you state secretaries, in the Helped Area Act you have defined encouraging housing measures, you are not in the hill-mounted area, although we do know that certain units of local self-government that will be in the hill-mounted area can exercise certain rights from the assisted but what happens to those units that are in the mountainous and mountainous areas that are not in the first 4 groups of the development index. What about them? What's with the housing? Well, he's gone, isn't he? Because we know, you know, too, because they can't use those encouraging housing measures in the assisted area, and we've just defined these measures to help those cities and municipalities in the mountainous and mountainous areas that aren't in the first four groups of development indices. In particular, that's the goal. In particular, they're Shares. In particular, it's Buzet. It is the complete interior of Istria, one large part of the Gorski kotar, the largest city in Dalmatia Zagora, Sinj. With this amendment, we asked for co-financing of housing in the form of the right to cash support for construction material. All that is incorporated into the Law on the assisted area of housing if, as I said, they do not realize or can achieve units from mountainous areas that are not in the first 4 groups of development indices. As important as it is to you, as far as you can see, that some measures can't be realized and you thought that perhaps, in the part of the mountain-mounted area that aren't in the 4 groups of development indices, we can see the rejection of this amendment. This is what I'm saying, just one chance to raise funds in the future with the help of those citizens living in such units of local self-government, but it seems that these rights will not come true even though they should have the same first one for life. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122940	Thank you. The 20th amendment is also the Most Independent List.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122941	The amendment is not accepted. The right of revenue from ticket sales to visit a protected area for units of local self-government which will acquire the status of mountain-mounted areas and which are located in the last 1/4 above the average-ranked units of local self-government according to the development index and have a protected area registered in their area is prescribed by the Law on Supported Areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122942	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122943	Secretary of State, that's exactly what we just said in the last amendment. Yeah, they'll be entitled to those in the first four groups of development indices, but you tell me what Delnice's gonna get from the NP Risnjak? He won't get anything. which will receive other units of local self-government from the hill-mounted area which are not in the first 4 groups of development indices and we know that in the area of the hill-mounted part of Croatia is located NP and Risnjak and North Velebit and PP Biokovo and PP Učka and Žumberak and others. With this amendment, we asked for revenues from selling tickets to visit the protected area, which are greater than 2 million kuna, to provide cash compensation to local self-government units where such areas are protected. Take a look at the difference between national parks and attendance, so normally no national park of North Velebit or Risnjak can be valued with all its capabilities or developed without additional resources. All these amendments to environmental protection, tourism infrastructure, you've made it impossible. And if this were made possible in addition to this amendment, it would allow local self-government units to think more about investing in such infrastructure because certain revenues would be returned to them. The proceeds through from the sale of tickets. But obviously it doesn't matter either, as all of these previous amendments, of course we're going to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122944	Thank you. It's an identical amendment to 21st, representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122945	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122946	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122947	Thank you very much. National parks in mountain-mounted areas are very important. I don't see any reason why most of the funds don't stay in the area, these citizens, that local self-government unit, which is why they want these units of local self-government in the hill-mounted area of the National Parks, to remain dependent on the central government, and that the government affects who will manage, where that money, how it works, is also happening with Plitvice Lakes, same thing happens in Drnis, same thing happens in all areas where we have National Parks, and only if you have an uncle, then you can name him on the Supervisory Board. Once again, these areas are not the Croatian government's exploitation field. The Croatian government must serve this people, but this people will survive without this, the people below are as tough as that rock, and they will remain. A lot of tyrants have passed, and this behavior has never happened. We don't care about these parts, that's why we don't have the population number, but we'll survive on those ends. Persistent. We'll fight, we'll walk from village to village, we'll talk about who represents them and how they represent them. That people are hard, that people don't cry, but that people are asking not to be an exploitation field of these people, that people are looking for a minimum of respect for these areas, a minimum. Doli grandmothers, fathers, grandfathers ask their children and grandchildren not to leave on buses, not to hear cries at bus stations, we expect children to cry in maternity homes, and support that neighborhood. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122948	The 22nd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122949	The amendment is not accepted. Porcine husbandry is a branch of livestock farming, and the Law requires the direction of production to specific products of raw materials and natural resources of the local area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122950	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122951	Here, this Secretary of State, the amendment, that is, this article spoke of everything you suggest for the mountainous area. Now imagine, activities that are important for the economic development of the mountain-mounted area, meaning activities that are important for the economic development of the mountain-mounted area. You define livestock farming, no pig farming, no meat-processing industry, no winemaking, no vineyarding. So have you ever been to the Zagora of Dalmatia, have you seen how many rows of wine do you have? And you don't define winemaking or vineyarding as an activity of economic importance for the mountain-mounted area? There are colleagues from the HSS, I'm glad to see that the three are here at the Assembly, where are colleagues from the HDZ, who are full of the mouth of agriculture? Where were you, where were you when the VAT bill was passed, where were we looking for a VAT reduction to certain products? Look at the paradox, there's no pork, and we're talking about the Dalmatian prosciutto, the Dražni prosciutto, we're talking about wines, the center of Istria, there's no winemaking, there's no winemaking. So there aren't those crucial economic activities that people live on, what people live on, whose families they live on, which is why people stay in these areas, these activities don't exist. And what's he saying? That you have no idea what's going on in the hill-mounted area. I don't know if anyone from your Ministry went to Dalmatia Zagora, Gorski Kotar, Central Istria or Hrvatska Zagorje, to see activities, what they do, what people do, what they grow and what people live with. There are no such activities. We wanted to correct it with this amendment, and what do you think of that amendment? You also reject this, so who can refuse winemaking, wine growing in the mountainous and mountainous region of Dalmatia, Central Istria, and this is not an activity of economic development for the mountainous and mountainous region of Croatia? So that's it? We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122952	Thank you. It's an identical amendment number 23, Representative Bulji, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122953	The amendment is not accepted, with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122954	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122955	The most significant and most recognizable areas are hill-mounted areas by agriculture, but we must know that the Dalmatian ham, the državni prosciutto, we have to do everything, and this amendment we propose to you to grow and encourage pig farming, vineyarding, however, it is obvious that this simply does not occur to you, that these lights of my colleagues, representatives from these areas, have blinded them, the advent lights that are beautiful in Zagreb, but have forgotten them at their end because they are not here where they should be from the mountainous and undeveloped areas, 2/3 of Croatia. The only thing they know, of course, is how well to taste that wine from that area, and that prosciutto from that area, they know it, and let's try to brand it, but with this amendment, help us with that end, these citizens to stay. You can be angry with me, my colleague Pranic, you can make the most morbid statements in this House that it would be better if we weren't born and it's from the minister, but the people are tough, the people will remain, and the greater tyrants were of the Croatian government, which hereby repeals the greatest values for the survival of this man, which is agriculture and livestock farming. You've had an insult to me, it's easy for me when you say I'm a shepherd, it's important to me that I'm not a sheep party, that I'm not a sheep who raises his hand against the people he chose, that's important to me. It's easy for me for my insults, which you give me, my colleague Bacic, he gave me, it's not a problem for me, but it's important to me that I'm a choban, not that, I'm proud of it, but to be a sheep party, I'm surprised by the people who are here. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122956	Thank you. Thank you. And Amendment number 24, is MOST's independent list, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122957	The amendment is not accepted because the above issues are governed by another regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122958	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122959	Mr. Secretary of State. This amendment is literally copied from the current law. So the current law is in force until this law is passed. You're saying it's governed by another regulation. So why didn't you change this applicable law that is currently, right now in this second and this minute in force? And what about these articles... it allows, says an advantage for the exercise of the right to lease agricultural and forest land and other natural resources, to have the same condition as the natural and legal person with residence, i.e. based in units of local self-government in the mountainous and mountainous area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We give these opportunities to allow our Gorans under the same conditions of better rights than others, who, I don't know, come in, just use the Gorski Kotar as an area... The forest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm saying that a complete article of this amendment has been copied from an existing law that has been in force since 2014. You say there is no harmonisation of legislation, that you now have laws that are not compatible with each other. Why didn't you change them before? And let's not say that it will comply with other regulations, since we hear here all the time that it will assist the assisted mountain and mountainous area from some other ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, and then what do we have in the Ministry of Regional Development? I guess you're the roof Regional Development Ministry. If it's going to help, as they say yesterday, the Ministry of Finance has given cities and municipalities... fiscal... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] higher incomes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then what will the Ministry of Regional Development, the abolished Ministry of Regional Development, give it to the Ministry of Finance. There's rationalization. Or strengthen it. Or accept those amendments that take the interest of residents of natural and legal persons based in the mountainous and mountainous areas of Croatia. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122960	Thank you. It's identical to the 25th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122961	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122962	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122963	Thank you very much. These mountain-mounted areas are rich in forests. Why not have these people in these areas, use that resource for cheaper and more productive and for their needs? You know why? Because in this area, examples of Gorski Kotar, Like and Zagor, we also have a sawmill, we also have wood processors. But they're not competitive. It is much more competitive with import lobbys to drive our wood to Italy, to attract our worker to Italy, to work there and to have the whole young family go there, professional people, who deal with it and to create furniture and wood product below and additional value sold in Croatia. And that's what we have today, in the current law. But this amendment says, which they didn't have when they read... The government did not have time to read because Advent is much more important in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is, now, this amendment in the current law. But it's not an interest, so that man stays in the area, it's in the interest of an import lobby that... those forests at the expense of that area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what people don't have in these areas is local self-government able to repair the damage to winter conditions. And I repeat again, well colleague Pranjic said, it's not enough when a snowflake falls to paint next to a bugger, how to clean the street. Go away later and see what their roads look like in Gorski Kotar, Dalmatinska Zagora, Lika, Drniš, remains Knin, go, look at these parts, and you will see what the damages are done. And this is how you send a message to get people out. They won't leave you, we'll fight. We invite people, stay, fight, change this power. Let's vote for this amendment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122964	The 26th amendment is also the Most Independent List.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122965	So the amendment is not accepted. The mountain card is a public document based on which the inhabitants of the mountain-mounted area enjoy certain benefits, which contribute to improving the quality of life in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122966	26, you may have been mistaken. This, behind the words of the inhabitants, is the word or the word of natural and legal persons Yeah, yeah, 26, no, no, I know. [[/Intruder: It's 26.]] Here's your Honorable representative, Pranjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122967	In the first... There was no proposal for a mountain card, so there was a colleague, Sonja Cikotic, a colleague and a colleague, Jovanovic, and you put in a mountain card and I'm glad you got it in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then what, then you kicked out a legal person. So if, what, who basically hires people in the hill-mounted area? Who provides new jobs? They provide legal persons and our intensity was that the mountain card could have legal persons, investors who create sustainable new jobs because this is the only option for the rest of the people in the mountain-mounted area, i.e. it is the only possibility that these entrepreneurs and investors have the benefits they do not have in the other part of Croatia. We used to have, in previous drafts of the law, and a profit tax that went in favour of investors and entrepreneurs from the mountainous and mountainous areas. We had a number of other measures systematically abolished by the 2007, 2008, 2011 and 2014 changes. And now in this bill, you have no measure aimed at legal persons, investors. And the most difficult business is precisely in the mountain-mounted area of Croatia, from the conditions, because of geomorphology and climate, because of labour force and because of one aspect that is extremely important, and we did not mention it today, the ageing index. Take a look at the ageing index at Croatia level, see the ageing index in these units of local self-government in the hill-mounted area, and you will see where the oldest population is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122968	The 27th amendment is identical to the previous one, submitted by the respected representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122969	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122970	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122971	Thank you very much. If anything is needed in this area, mountainous mountaineering needs jobs. If anyone can do it, it's entrepreneurs. Legal persons, and you have a mountain card after a long debate, and basically those people who should be the driver of the survival of those people in that area, instead of having minimum or no taxes in this area to be competitive, because there are winters in the mountainous mountainous area, with us, mostly Gorski Kotar, Lika, are much bigger, much longer, much more necessary for energy, instead of encouraging them and that this law is written, that they do not pay any taxes, zero taxes, at 5 years old. That people can hire, that they have an interest in doing business in this area, you delete them from this mountain card. So it's not just enough in that area to be HDZ's card and your coalition partners. So don't turn this mountain card into that. Pretend that those people who are entrepreneurs, legal persons, have the opportunity to have certain privileges with that card because they deserve them in this area. There is one gold working place, in Gorski Kotar, Lika, Dalmatinski Zagorje, in the whole area. From this area, you have evicted 12,000 people from the mountainous mountainous mountainous, we are now passing the law as a Christmas gift to those parts, and we do not know what units of local self-government it is. Increase the volume to 85, and you say you've increased in your budget, double up. So why are you stealing Christmas from these people, why didn't you send them a message young people stay, to their fathers and grandfathers, that their grandchildren and sons will remain, you cheat on these people with this law, throw the fog in their eyes, ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122972	Thank you. And the 28 amendments are a bridge of independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122973	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122974	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122975	With this amendment, we have asked for co-financing and to pay toll to the highways of Croatia for legal persons based in the mountainous mountainous area and carrying out activities of importance for the economic development of the mountainous mountainous area. You have highways that have passed through the Dalmatian Zagora, you have highways that have passed through the Gorski Kotar, you have highways that have passed through the Croatian Zagorje, you have highways that have passed through the interior of Istria, and what do we have of these highways? It's staring empty. Many use county, local roads, entrepreneurs, because their highways are expensive. And instead of encouraging them in this way to be more competitive to co-finance the payment of such tolls, it's not good either. And what did we actually get? What did the mountainous mountainous areas get by building these highways? The highways became the shortest road connection between Croatia's mountain slopes, Germany, Austria and Ireland. That's what we got. Instead of the relationship of return, the fastest route of departure. This is what we've been trying to co-finance the payment of legal persons who are based in the mountainous mountainous area. Is that, say, a concrete measure like this exists, perhaps some entrepreneur from Rijeka headed to the Gorski Kotar to open the headquarters and hire people, from Split went to Sinj, from Makarska to Vrgorac and so on. But it obviously doesn't matter to you, and our highways are empty, whose resources we've built, which are empty here, and for which we orderly return a non-small loan. You've painted highways neatly, you've feared highways several times, but when it comes to co-financing entrepreneurs from our areas, on those highways, that's not possible. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122976	Thank you. The 29 amendments are identical to the previous amendments and submitted by MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122977	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122978	Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122979	Thank you very much. The highways were supposed to be a major development project that should be developed for mountainous mountainous areas, however, the highway is empty. The highway has been used to paint tunnels, the highway since it was built we have all the little people in the mountainous mountainous area. Why wouldn't entrepreneurs have a privileged position in this area? Entrepreneurs. Because it'll certainly make them more competitive. Not only do you not want to make dates, which you open and promise every 4 years, you place more rock foundation in Vrgorec... A road trip to Sinj, a number of stories for Sinj's date, for Drnis, for Knin, however, has nothing to do with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at least let the entrepreneur, the competitiveness in this area, when you already do not want to allow them to have myrcrosols, free of charge, because it is better to give it to wind power plants that use n sheep and encourage them to give to foreign companies. So give them a chance which highway is empty at a price, so I can hire one person, two more people. Two men in this area of the Dalmatian Fire, like, the Mountain Wheel, Zagorje is a big deal, it's a success. These people should be rewarded, worshipped. It's not like they're being harassed. That's why I think this is a minimum that can be done for entrepreneurs in the area. That they have transportation at a privileged price, but you don't want it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122980	Thank you. The 30 amendments are representatives of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122981	The amendment is not accepted as I have pointed out several times, the key measures for the development of mountain-mounted areas are arranged by a mountain-mounted area development programme, and the inhabitants of the mountain-mounted areas will have their rights, certain benefits, through the possession of a mountain card.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122982	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122983	Thank you very much, here is the self-refusing of all the amendments that are coming today showing to what extent the government truly cares about the mountainous and mountainous areas, and how much it is about the piar and the sale of fog. Here are today in the Rijeka New List, we can read that yesterday, State Secretary Majda Buric and her colleagues in the Gorski Kotar HDZ held a press conference and solemnly said that today is a great day for Gorski Kotar because no one has helped Gorski Kotar both HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic. So it's a statement that's a mere sale of fog, and fog and snow to the Gorski kotar doesn't really miss it, so I repeat that this law, the law that is a single frame, and there's no content in that context at all. And all the concrete measures that we have tried here today to help the government to obtain a quality law that will prevent the demographic disaster of mountainous and mountainous areas including the Gorski Kotar from being rejected without a single over-explanatory explanation. So my proposal that everyone who works in mountain-mounted areas of the employer who has a seat in the mountain-mounted area and comes to the deficit area, from the deficiting professions should also have the possibility of getting a mountain card, has been rejected. Thus, the sum of 40 million kunas that are provided for mountainous and mountainous areas where some 350,000 inhabitants live shows that the government believes that with 100 kuna per capita in these areas it will ensure the demographic prosperity of the region. So that selfless sum shows if, how empty this law is. Here I am, Mr. Secretary of State, telling you that the Primorje-Gorski County in its budget, along with all the funds it allocates through the administrative departments, has provided a 3 million-dollar fund for the Gorski Kotar, so one county, and you as a government for the whole. You're offering a mountain range of 40 million. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122984	The 31st Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122985	The amendment is not accepted, the transparency of the effect of the Law on mountainous areas is ensured through reports, reports by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122986	On behalf of the club, respected representative Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122987	I'd like to tell you a few things about the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. Probably you, when you reject all our amendments, see an empty space, and that's exactly how it's going to be with your 31st article, which you're going to help with 40 million kuna. In fact, 300,000 people live there, this is not enough. You refused more than 30 amendments that were supposed to help the economic, demographic and any other recovery of those parts. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that we want this article that you reject transparency, not that the ministry is reporting to the government, and, indirectly, the Government Committee, but that the discussions on what you will do with 40 million kuna for a total of 85 units of local self-government, for a total of 300,000 people to come to this high house by April 2019, and you say what you have done since the day of entry into force and so every year thereafter. Why do you reject it, why do you refuse to come and inform the representatives of this people in the Croatian Parliament about what you did for 300,000 people with 40 million kuna. Why do you refuse that? Also, I have to mention the beginning of this law itself, you as a central body managing regional development, have not been able to, although the law has been implemented since 2002 for 16 years, only to determine the scope. But besides all the employees in the ministry, you took out associates and paid them 150,000 kuna. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122988	Thank you, the 32nd Amendment is identical to the previous one, and was submitted by MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122989	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122990	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122991	I didn't expect anything else. No legislator's intention, the legislator of the law to us who pass this bill, was even this law. This law is a pamphlet on pamphlets, a pirate's office where it does not mean a certain coverage of units of local self-government, and we do not know which units of local self-government that are increasing from 45 to 85, counterpart Šipic, co-worker from HNS, and who else said they had increased by 10 million kuna if they had given the amendment, and did not say that they were increasing from 45 units of local self-government to 85 units of local self-government. The Zagora in which I was born and my colleague, Pranic, grieves me that they are not representatives who represent the interests of this people of this area that have been forgotten. I'm not surprised by the minister and you, you have a warrant from Andrej Plenkovic to insult me but it doesn't hurt me, you have a warrant, you act like it when he starts to insult and you insult. It pains me that fellow MPs from that area are none of the majority here, my people, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples, my peoples. Where we give the amendments but we are ruling, the government has given the order here that we are not triangulated to be born and let alone mention these parts because they are much more important to Junker, Tusk, Crimea, Russia and Ukraine than to solve the problem of the survival of our people in mountainous and mountainous areas in the most beautiful part of not Croatia but Europe. But it will remain that people, that people are tough, that people have endured even worse tyranny than this tyranny, which is the most insidious of tyranny in the history of the Republic of Croatia, where we have achieved freedom and that rule is done in the interests of our people. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122992	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122993	Final proposal of the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, second reading, P.Z. No. 412, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representatives Siniša Hajdas Dončić and Marko Vesligaj, the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, MP Miro Bulj, representative Željko Jovanovic, Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives. The review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, we held the statement at the beginning of today's session and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. So we're going in line, the 1st Amendment of Representatives Cynthia Hejdas Doncic and Mark Vesligaj the Government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 2 by MP Zeljko Jovanovic is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. 3. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number four of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number five has been withdrawn. Amendment number 6 of MOST's advocates' clubs are not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 7 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8 of the MoST Representatives Clubs of Independent Lists is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 9 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 10 of the MoST Representatives Clubs of Independent Lists is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 12 of MOST representatives' clubs are not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13 of Mira Bulja's representatives is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 14 of MOST's advocates' clubs are not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment of 15 MPs to Mira Bulja is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 16 of the MoST Representatives Clubs of Independent Lists is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 17 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 18 of MOST representatives' clubs are not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. An amendment of 19 MOST to independent lists is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 20 of MOST's representatives of independent lists is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 21 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 22 of MOST's representatives' clubs are not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, this is colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122994	Dear President, thank you very much for your time. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the mountainous and mountainous area, you have injured all articles and obligations to the people who chose you. We don't need anything down there, and you who represent them at least can be a disgrace to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u122995	Comrade Bulj, this has earned a natural warning, I'm sorry we had to do it now, but here's what we can do. Don't insult others, we can say it nicer. We are going to the 24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists The Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 25 of Mira Bulja's representatives is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 26 of the MoST Representatives Clubs of Independent Lists is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 27 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 28 of MOST's representatives of independent lists is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 29 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 30 MPs by Zeljko Jovanovic is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 31 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. And last amendment number 32 of Mira Bulja's MPs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. So let's now go to the vote on the final proposal of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 1 abstention and 17 against the Law on mountain-mounted areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123230	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on flood protection against floods in the river Kupa, second reading, P.Z. Number 461. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. Is it possible that the motionary's representative would like to give an explanation? Please, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr. Mario Shiljeg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, before you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Flood Protection in the Kupa River Basin, which is the result of successful inter-resorship cooperation to find ways to accelerate the resolution of key obstacles to the implementation of this project. The biggest challenge in its realization due to the complexity of the length of the process is to address property-legal relations for about 15,000 land particles. The application of existing rules on the exemption and determination of the compensation of the state measure and the real estate catastra and the spatial arrangement and construction due to the length of the process operations does not ensure the rapid implementation of the flood protection project in the Kupa River Basin. A solution for the realization of this project, unsustainable, as we are increasingly affected by extreme hydraulic opportunities with the appearance of large waters and extreme flood water conditions. The flood defence system in the Kupa River Basin was not built or partially built, the historical maximum water conditions were recorded at several water stations in the area in February, September 2014 and in October 2015. The merger of the four rivers Kupa, Korana, Režnica and Good in large waters and because of their mutual influence make the defense against floods without a completely built system significantly difficult and often impossible. The occurrence of floodwaters in the 100-year return period has threatened about 23,800 inhabitants or the annual average of 2,130 inhabitants. The average annual direct and indirect flood damages are around 280 million kuna, if the current trend of hydrological change continues and the flood defence system is not built in the event of a new occurrence of large waters in the event of a drop in the current flood protection system could be over 4 billion kuna, and a significant number of residents would be at risk, which is unacceptable. For the purpose of the permanent protection of the lives of citizens and their assets, study documentation for the preparation of this project has been built for the purpose of reporting, its application for co-financing with the European Regional Development Fund through the Operational Programme for Competitiveness and Cohesion 2014. - 2020. The feasibility study defined the scope of the project and estimated the value of the project at more than EUR 120 million, with the value of the part of the project relating to the Karlovak area being estimated at 670 million kuna. The coverage is divided into the Karlovak and Sisak areas within which the measures planned to be implemented to protect the area from the flood of the Kupa River are defined. The flood protection project of this river includes the construction of oscillations and other protective and regulatory water structures in the karlovic and Sisak area and in the Odran field as well as the construction of the Brodarci bulkheads with accompanying facilities and a digging of the Koran with accompanying facilities. The project provides for construction and/or reconstruction of protective and regulatory water structures over 111 km of embankment, 38 reconstructions refer to construction plus reconstruction of 38 km of embankment, construction of at least 6 km of reinforced concrete protective walls, construction of at least 4.6 km of coastal forts, construction of 6 gas stations, 4 constitutions and construction of about 26 km of internal drain canals. The planned measures in the Karlovak, Sisak and Zagreb areas relate to a total of 11 measures. This law would lay down specific rules derogating from certain provisions or critical points of the rules on the granting and fixing of compensation to the state measure and to the cataster of real estate and to the spatial arrangement and construction but not, but it would definitely not deviate from the spirit of the principle and the meaning of these laws. The other provisions of these regulations would apply subsidiaryly. It is estimated that the adoption of this law will speed up the resolution of property-legislative relations in such a way that the duration of the procedure will be half shortened. For example, for the previous extension of 78 land particles, it took a total of 331 days, while the application of this law will be estimated to last less than 140 days. After the implementation of this project, the annual flood threat of the population will decrease by about 14 times. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to apply for EU funds and to obtain approval for this Project by the end of 2019, and by the end of 2023 to build the regulatory and water protection structures provided for by the Project, thus removing the long-standing fear of each announcement of the more abundant rainfall, and achieving permanent protection of people and their property from floods in the area concerned. The adoption of this Law would make a significant contribution and will make a significant contribution to the achievement of the deadlines set. Also on July 25, 2018, the construction of the left coastal ridge of Kupa from the railway bridge to Brodarac began. At its 10th session of 21 November 2018 following the first reading and discussion, HS reached its conclusion, which adopted the proposal for the Law in question, and sent comments, proposals and opinions to the Croatian Government for the preparation of the final proposal for this Act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted concrete proposals for certain articles of the Bill, and with reference to the call for the provisions of other regulations, has prepared the Final Proposal for the Law, and is proposing to the HS the adoption of this Act in order to speedily implement the project in question. I would like to ask on behalf of the Proposer, on behalf of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, for the support of parliamentary representatives to accept this final proposal of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123232	I would like to thank Mr. Shileg, the Honorable Secretary of State, for the explanation of this final proposal of the Law. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123233	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At the very beginning, as I come from the Carlovakia County myself, I must say that I am extremely grateful to this government and the Resort Ministry, as well as to the Croatian waters, which coordinatedly seek to solve this flood problem for the future. In July 2014, it also started in March 2016, the production of study documentation for the preparation of flood protection projects in the Coupa River Basin from the EU Funds was completed. The most significant result is a feasibility study for the Flood Protection Project in the Kupa River Basin in the area of Karlovac County and Sisak Moslavina County, and in the smaller part of Zagreb County. The project consists of a dikes and other regulatory and protective water structures, including a barrier of Brodarci and a digging of Koran with accompanying facilities. The project's own value was estimated at EUR 120 million or more than 900 million. Co-financing of the project as a public investment would amount to 85% to the European Regional Development Fund and 15% to national security. Part of the project related to the protection against the floods of Karlovac, titled the Flood Protection Project, the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, was listed in October 2017 on the list of strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia. The base of the flood protection system in the area consists of the Kupa Cup cargo channel and the natural retention of the Cup. The entire system's management is achieved by building the Brodarci dam. On some of the moves, the walls and the dikes are performed. In the area of the town of Karlovac, a planned line defence system of flood defense would be completed through the embankments and walls, which would be complemented by a dig at the mouth of the Korana River in the river Kupu. In this area, in the present state of the flood defense system, except the city of Karlovac and Sisak, and the flood events are exposed to a large part of the suburban settlements, as well as other urbanized areas, municipal, industrial and transport infrastructure, as well as a number of other significant facilities. In particular, the exposure of the local population to floods is significant, and the exposure of total space to other indirect flood damages, such as dives and slides. We also remember the great floods in February, September and October 2014, and in October 2015, when the town of Karlovac declared the same elemental disasters. There were then flood waves of the Kupa River, which are largely among the top 5 in the last 60 years. In order to self-building of the flood protection system in the Kupa River Basin, it is necessary to resolve property relations to 15 000 particles, and to pass building acts as soon as possible. This would apply the project to EU funds over the planned period. Protection water structures planned for the project would also be built by the end of 2023. In order to achieve this, this Law should be adopted as a lex specialis, and the objectives are specific rules for implementing the project and building a flood protection system in the Kupa River Basin. These specific and proposed rules are in line with the principles of existing rules on the granting and fixing of compensation, state measurements and the cataster of real estate, spatial planning and construction, but the solutions proposed make partial exceptions to the existing rules due to urgency. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that we are all aware of the necessity of the urgent realization of this truly great and significant project and thus the justification of this Law. I would also like to thank the competent ministry once again for its efforts to bring this project back to life as soon as possible. Of course, the HDZ advocates' club will support this Final Bill proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123234	I thank my esteemed colleague, Liposhak. Dear fellow Batinic is not present. On behalf of the SDP representative club, dear colleague Damir Mateljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here, there's a few of us left, since we're a colleague of mine from the carlova County, we could put on our T-shirts as colleagues from Zagora, born in carlovac, and I'd be very embarrassed if someone told me that, better if the carlovac had never given birth to me, means, very ugly, but back to the subject. The town of Karlovac is precisely its four rivers of Korani, Buy, Retina and Good can thank its existence. This geographical position, therefore, was the reason why in 1579 the Habsburgs built a fortress in that place, a Renaissance fortress that was supposed to defend the western part of Europe from Osmania. But when the city became a city of trade from its military character, the city of the economy, as the population grew, the city spread and the rivers that defended the city became a danger. In fact, the town of Karlovac all the way there until the '70s and '80s didn't have any effective system or any effective flood protection system. It was only done in the '70s and '80s when the Kupa-Kupa channel was built. But it didn't even begin with this law. And you, a colleague of Lipoščak, said that it started in 2014 on the basis of the decision of the then government just the project of protection of the city of Karlovac from the floods entered, therefore, as a project into structural or cohesion funds, and on that basis a study of feasibility and on the basis of this today and we are passing this law which is actually a tool that needs to be implemented as easily as possible. I mean, what does that law say about us? He's actually talking about how incompetent we are, unfortunately. Here's a historical example. In 1908 a flood occurred in the city of Karlovac. It was then one of the city's richest, richest cities in Croatia and the city's eyes decided to replace gas lighting with electric lighting. In 1908, Croatia did not yet have the name for the power plant in its own language, so they built a "moon". In a year they managed to bring turbines from America, by boat, by ox wagons across the Kupa River, which had not had a single bridge, and in a year they built a hydrocentral, one of the oldest hydrocentrals in the Republic of Croatia and Europe. A headquarters that, when the government was in our county a few days ago, the prime minister therefore opened a replacement for the 1908 rotor blades, which speaks enough about how good the facility is. But, therefore, this law, I hope, I deeply hope as a resident of the carlova County that it will allow us to implement this project as quickly as possible and the SDP club will, of course, support this law and we call on all other well-intentioned representatives who are not here today in this late hour to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123236	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Damir Matjana for this debate. We're going into individual debates. Dear colleague Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123237	Thank you. Here, as someone who is a representative of Sisak-Moslavina County, I will thank you for this project, or the law, because we really need it. Sisak-Moslavina County in the period from 2014-2018 had 41 major disasters, 20 of which were related to floods in the county itself. Of course, they're not just us, they're not threatening us with floods in the Coop River, and you know it very well. It is a county that has an exceptional water wealth and is occasionally surprised by its water wealth and nature. In my first reading, I mentioned the municipality of Lekenik which I will now mention in this period from 2014 to 2018 of the 6 floods that took place in that area, all 6 are classified as an elementary disaster. Of course, the costs are extremely high, the Lekenik municipality itself had more than 12 million kuna damage, and the Sisak-Moslavina County itself more than 35 million kuna damage. Of course, these are the direct damages that have been reported, and all those indirect where people participated, therefore, civil protection, the Red Cross, firefighters, military, police, HSSS in this amount are not listed. Of course, there are more damages to municipal infrastructure, drinking water, drinking water pollution, road closures. As far as traffic breaks are concerned, I think we all know very well here that our main state road that connects Sisak and Popovacha and leads us on the highway, when each flood is closed. And that's what I also believe you'll take care of in the coming years because there's something important to be done because it can't be done for a week or two weeks, or how long it's already been an elemental accident, it's been cut off from what's extremely important to us. If we're talking about how much we blame ourselves, of course, there's an important human factor. Part of the embankment was either not built or was partially built in Sisak-Moslavina County or simply not maintained. And if we mention also maintaining the riverbeds and raising their level by more than 1 or 1.5 m then we can conclude that Sisak-Moslavina County has a really big problem. Of course, I mentioned at the beginning how the entire county struggles with floods, especially Jasenovac municipality, Martinska Wes, Topusco, Dvor, Dubica, Hrv. Costume and Hrv. In our last floods, the cost was one example where this water could seriously endanger our life, and you saw that the slides that had never been recorded were there. I believe that when this project really comes to life and all those buildings that will protect us from the high water, from the flood, will indeed reduce all these damages that we have listed, not only materially, but also protect people's lives, and will allow people to live safer lives in their homes. Here, I won't be long. I will thank you once again, as you think of the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, Karlovac and part of Zagreb County, and I believe that in 2023 we will really have a certain system that may not fully protect us, but largely protect us from the current disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123238	She thanks her esteemed colleague, Josic. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would once again like to thank Mr. Maria Šileg, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy and Mrs. Elizabeth Kos, Assistant Minister, from the Resistant Ministry. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. As announced to you this morning, tomorrow we begin work at 9:30, with a statement on amendments to the discussed laws, there are 139 of them. After that, we will proceed with the presentation of the position of Club Representatives. Voting on the debated points will most likely be around 3:00. Thank you and have a good day. SESSITION INTERNED AT 22.14 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-13-0.u123239	Final proposal of the Law on flood protection against floods in the river Kupa, second reading, P.Z. No. 461, the motion for the act is the Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on flood protection in the Kupa River Basin, please vote. I find that, unanimously, 97 votes in favour, we passed the Law on a flood protection project in the river Kupa.
