ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77941	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. As we have made it clear to the new Rules of Procedure, it will now be a free statement, so let's go to the first free statement, so I have already registered the HDSS club. Is there another club coming in? On behalf of the SDP Club, I have already written you, my colleague Glasnović, my colleague Lovrinović, I see the same, colleague Cikotic, colleague Varda I have seen well, someone else? Yeah, well, you're not up for a break, you have a question, okay, then even better. A colleague of Hrelja and a colleague of Bunjac, is that if I see well in the name of my clubs, that's it. Let me read it one more time so that we can tell the clubs later, colleagues Hrg, Matic, Glasnović, Čikotić, Hrelja, Varda, Bunjac. Thank you very much. All right, then let's strictly hold the Rules of Procedure first because the shared opinions are going to be strictly held by the Rules of Procedure let's go first free speech. So the first came to the attention of respected representative Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HDSSB and HSLS Club. Here you go. My colleagues, let's let our colleague HR tell him what he wants. Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the new Rules of Procedure, so we're still getting used to it this way. On behalf of the HDS Club, HSLS and HDSSB, I asked for a break to highlight the problem that I have already talked about here on several occasions and which is present in Croatia, which is a problem of too little pay and too little of the basic salaries of Croatian citizens who are fortunate to be employed. We're talking about demographics, we're talking about social stability, we're talking about social peace, we're talking about emigration, we're talking about all kinds of problems that hit our faces every day, not just on our backs, and we're not talking about, in principle, that we can start to solve all these problems, primarily by finding a solution to an increase in wages. I won't talk so much about those minimum salaries today, basic salaries, I don't know how much you remember that the Croatian Democratic Party has launched activities in finding a solution to increase the basic salary to 4000 kn. And today I claim that this is something that must be done and without which we will not be able to get out of the problems that we are in, but today I want to talk more about the problem of small wages and a degradation of young highly educated people. These days, I've had a few conversations with young people who've graduated from college. They also work in public services, in public services and in private companies. Let's imagine a young man who finishes college, 5 years of studying, being a great student, dealing with it, making a decision to stay in Croatia, having no intention of leaving Croatia and now going to the labour market and getting a job, having luck, getting a job in the state service when there in the state service for a job with high volume gets paid around 4,500 kn. Then we go to the private sector, so also a young man finishes college, becomes a great student, goes all joy in that work part of his life, gets a job, gets lucky he gets a job, when he pays 3900 kn. Now I ask the question, are we really aware of what is going on, are we aware of what is the collision with that young man's wall, are we aware that because of this reason they feel less valuable to become simply disheartened and that they finally come into a situation to pack their suitcases and leave Croatia? Are we aware that young people don't form families, that young women don't get married, that young boys don't marry for that reason because they can't even feed themselves, let alone their family, are we aware that all this together affects social peace in the country and that the state without real social peace can't advance? And the investors won't come either. This government has an ideal opportunity to make certain moves on this particular plan. Trends in the economy are positive, the state budget is stabilised, and simply if the government does not launch programmes that will increase salaries for people in Croatia, then we will have a hard time doing anything, there will be no demographic renewal, there will be no social peace and there will be no end to emigration. I repeat, this is not a criticism, this is an invitation. I think the government has the ideal opportunity to make right moves on this plan, make shifts and reverse the trend that has followed us backwards for many years, and for the last 5, 6 years intensively. Here in that direction, let this be one such message, I will practically talk about this issue every week until someone gets to their ears, and until it's finally done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77943	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDS Representatives' Club, HSLS, the HDSSB will speak for a respected representative, Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77945	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I need to talk about salaries today, or minimum wage. In fact, we have witnessed that we have entered a period of serious events, as if many of the problems have become crowded precisely in the time in which we are in this House, and as such, it is no privilege at all, but it is an obligation, but it happens that we have dissatisfactions on a daily basis, protests that I would not call even protests, I would call them warnings that something serious is happening in society. When it comes to pay, why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because this political furniture, including the Parliament and the Government and all the institutions, has fallen into the task of seriously dealing with this problem, although we must say for the sake of truth, that this government and this Parliament have taken some measures that the situation wants to improve, so the minimum wage has been raised lately more than the last few years. Why am I saying this? Which is why I'm talking about minimum wage and I'm actually thinking about Croatia's salaries because I think the minimum wage is something that significantly threatens the sense of security and generates a lasting fear and tension of a certain part of our citizens and which is passed on to a complete society. This existential threat arising from the minimum wage, the existential fear arising from the minimum wage, the existential tension arising from that minimum wage when a person has to think about how to survive is definitely something we have to think about, which we need to think about not only from an economic point of view but also from a civilizational point of view, if you want to think about medically. This existential threat of individuals stemming from this fear of surviving generated or in the best sense and the mildest sense is often the trigger for numerous diseases on a physical and psychological basis. That is why it is very important that we send a message from here to those who will be in Mark’s square these days and those who are bound by these laws that we make sure that together we try to get out of this problem that is on the one hand dangerous for an individual and on the other hand, the whole society makes it unstable and insecure. Minimum wages and wages that people usually protest or warn about today because these are not large protests but simply warnings that we need to take seriously but can turn into protests are not random and we need to be very, very responsible. When it comes to wages and I have another detail to emphasize that she is in a motivational sense terribly important when a man approaches work and the results of his work. A man with a minimum wage, poorly paid for his work, is unmotivated. And I ask you to try to concentrate on these facts and to really make these people feel safer, to feel more dignified, to feel self-respect and not to feel rejected because then they will be destructive with the right, and I would be in their place, will be, will be leaving Croatia which is all together great damage to society and I don't know how to get out of it. So let's try to think more seriously about how in these economically positive trends that we're recording, let's concentrate on making the minimum wage and the raise of all the other salaries more satisfying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77946	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77947	It is now up to the respected counterpart Branko Hrg, the HDS, HSLLS and HDSSB representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77948	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will carry on in one sentence what my colleague Schibola was saying. He talked about the problem of homeless people, and I will say that today in Croatia, because of the new Animal Protection Act, dogs have more rights and we invest more for dogs than for homeless people and people in general, people in social need. So all of you, who've raised your hand for that animal protection law, think about it a little bit. In order not to be homeless even more, to prevent this process happening, I will, of course, on behalf of our club, and especially on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Party, speak again today about the problem, small salaries in the Republic of Croatia. It's 11:00 p.m. Last year we held a press conference where we set some kind of limit, so no one should have less than 4,000 kn net in the Republic of Croatia. It caused a variety of reactions and there were many criticisms, and there was also an insult, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It is important that today the problem of too little salaries in the Republic of Croatia is being talked about more and more. And it's important that we all talk about this more together, because if we don't start to seriously think about it, if we don't put this topic on the table, as one of the main and strongest, most important topics in the Republic, we're going to have more and more problems, we're going to have fewer people, and we're going to have a homeless person in the end. As a party, we have submitted one proposal to the finance minister, asking that, in future proposals, legislative, tax reforms, consider this one model that we have given, so that we should move towards ensuring higher salaries. We hope that soon such a package of tax laws will come and that it will be realized that there is simply no other way to raise wages, except to tax the employers, so that the salary increase does not fall exclusively on the back of employers. One level must be found, one line of endurance, between tax grantings to the state and what employers must give. When we talk about wages, I'm not just talking about minimum wages two weeks ago. I've been following this same pay phone, I said that every week we're going to point at this problem, we're also talking about salaries that are too low, for people who work not on minimum pay. Maybe loud thinking, maybe it's a solution, maybe you should look for a solution, find a way, go to help raise a net wage of at least 10,000 kn. That those salaries that are more than 10000 kn, practically right now we put aside and that they are not the ones that will be covered by such changes, but the salaries, from the minimum salary to the 10,000 kn, is definitely something that must be done absolutely, where solutions must be found, because if we don't find those solutions, here we listen to these days the hosts, we listened to messages from union meetings yesterday, everyone talking about too little pay, people are unhappy, the situation in society is apathetic, it's just hopeless, and I think people can only get this kind of social peace, social stability, social security just by increasing wages. And here's a call from this pay phone in charge of the Ministry of Finance, primarily the Ministry of Labour, to go seriously into finding a solution to how to raise people's net wages in any way. Without it, we are free of all the other laws that we are making because, as many analysts have already announced, we are going to pass these laws, and they will be used on people, they will be used by people who will come to Croatia while our citizens from Croatia will be leaving more and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77949	Thank you. We have five minutes left if anyone else wants to report on behalf of the clubs, if not then at 10.00 we will continue to work and with five points we will unite. Thank you. It's 9:50 a.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with the session and at the beginning we have, Wednesday is a free speech so I invite you who is interested in speaking on behalf of your club today. A colleague of Panenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77951	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the club Okay. [[President: Well, you don't have to explain, so let's take it in a row so you can talk right now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77952	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go. You don't have to explain just like this, you're an independent representative, have you agreed between yourselves independent representatives who will speak this week? Because my colleague Mrsic tells me the same thing. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Unfortunately, we did not.]] I don't know if you've already been a colleague of Mrsic's this month? Then you can't. Okay, but I'm asking you, under the regulation of the new Rules of Procedure, you can't all speak, but once a week speaking one of the independent representatives, so we were agreed on so it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77953	But I have also asked for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the political system because it is not quite clear in the Rules of Procedure, so I will ask you to influence the committee to respond as soon as possible as possible as possible to how many times a week can one MP speak. Is one once a day or one just once a week in front of everyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77954	Okay, did you make that proposal in writing? Yes, it is. Okay, that will then be evident by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Is there any other independent agents here? If not then you have the right to speak today, colleague Zekanovic, and colleague Mrsic cannot. Comrade Bauk, here you go. ... And you've already submitted your applications. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Have any of the club representatives ever submitted their applications? Comrade Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77955	We didn't turn in the application, and I'd like a free speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77956	Okay. Here's how I'm going to read the order in which, I didn't know about the applications, they're here. So we go in the next order, first colleague Branko Hrg, second colleague Sinčić, third colleague Glasnović, fourth colleague Zekanovic, fifth colleague Panenić, sixth colleague Davor Bernardić and finally a respected colleague Branko Bačić and now another colleague Mrak-Taritaš. You can't talk to your colleague Mrssic today. ... Yes, but today my colleague Zekanovic is as independent. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We will give you an indication of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and then you will have to negotiate between yourselves. That's it, we can go. The first one's next, dear colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77957	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to draw a little attention today to the transport infrastructure, specifically to the so-called. Podravski ipilon, it's a road from Cugovec towards Bjelovar and towards Koprivnica. Back there in '93. In 2016 the first section of the road of Cugovec-Križevci was opened, the entire area was still waiting for the opening of the section of Cugovec-Farkaševac towards Bjelovar, and according to some indications, certain activities were listed on further designing and preparation of the road from Farkaševac to Bjelovar. On the Križevci-Koprivnica section, nothing is done in principle. There is some indication, semi-information from the Croatian Roads to do some preparatory activities on the construction and preparation of projects amending the project documentation on the Križevci-Vojakovački Kloštar shares, but on the ground and property relations and setting up property legal relations there are no activities yet. It is extremely important to make sure that the construction of the road from Križevci to Koprivnica is continued because now that the road to Križevci in Križevci is open, one traffic collapse has been made, a chaos where traffic through the city centre with heavy trucks and simply those drivers who drive, as well as citizens living in Križevci, have big problems. I, too, from this pay phone from here, appeal to the Croatian roads and to the rest of the ministry to explore all possibilities to continue the construction of the road from the Križevci to Koprivnica and to begin activities more intensively in the coming year, i.e. to provide for certain means for the next year where certain means would be clearly seen what would happen to that road. It is not always necessary to wait for local self-government or regional self-government to start activities and put pressure on national enterprises, whether it can be done sometimes to gather local levels from national level and to work together to get certain places out of traffic isolation. Let us not forget that there is a Podravka located in Koprivnica, which thanks God well works and which this year has extraordinary results in business and that simply these goods that leave Podravka leave leave take most of the truck transport. For them, the road from Koprivnica to Križevci is going out on a fast road of vital importance, but of course for all those people who live there. It was here when some strange amendments were made, unfortunately people who gave amendments did not get very familiar with the situation on the ground, so they gave amendments for roads that did not exist, but here I now point out in time, since I live in that area, in this area, I point to this problem and I point out and I pray that the situation is really seriously considered and that the activities of building that road from the Križevci to Koprivnica are started, but that, of course, more intensive construction is continued than Frakaševci towards Bjelovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77958	Thank you. Let's go to the final debate, dear colleague Branko Hrb on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77960	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that realistically looking at things and as a man who sits here in the assembly and lives on a daily basis this life that I am confused with everything that's going on and I can imagine what it's like for Croatian citizens, how confused they are. What bothers me and what I have already talked about here several times in the assembly and me and my colleague Goran Dodig, we are plagued by the problems of small and too small salaries in Croatia that result in all the other problems that are happening and I hope that in this announced new tax reform there will be some changes, tax redundancies in order to increase wages for Croatian citizens. I was also surprised the other day when half an hour after I spoke on the subject I saw what my colleague Bernardic said at a press conference asking for a minimum wage of 4,000 kuna. So I couldn't believe myself that someone could put someone's idea and someone's request, someone's proposal, and so, without any shame or discomfort, place them in public, but I don't find it strange, because unfortunately our political parties in Croatia are not dealing with life problems, but exclusively with political competition, planting each other. And now in the previous discussions that were here, there were speeches of course about something else, but of Agrokor. So far, I've never really spoken on behalf of the club on this subject, I'd like to say a few sentences today. There is no government in the Republic of Croatia that has in some way not participated in a certain, we can call it the benefits of creating this system. One of the governments that might have done most of it was the SDP-led government. Let us remember what was then, that a favourable credit was secured for the purchase of Mercator after which Agrokor kneeled to the end, remember then that 333 million kunas were allegedly paid to advisers who were preparing to buy Mercator. No one's talking about it. And then we link it to today's situation where we have continuous attacks on the Prime Minister and the Government by the actors who took part in this process and who are obviously coordinating. Who? Former owner or owner of Agrokor, Mr. Todorovic and SDP. They're co-ordinatedly criticizing and trying to do everything in their power not to make a deal. Interesting. Who works for who? But most of all, I'm confused by another fact. Today I'm reading in the daily press the same writings about it. I'm asking a question and I'd really like to get to that answer. What was the role of the then President of the Assembly of Mr. God Petrov? Did he really know everything that was going on? Was he involved in all that was being prepared for the bill and for the rescue of Agrokor or not? Because it's incomprehensible for someone who's supposedly been familiar with Vima, who's actively involved in everything, to be today the most fierce critic of the activities under the same law. Here I would really ask my colleague Petrov to speak loud and clear to us in the Parliament as well as to the Croatian public. Is it also to the extent that he has been involved in all the law-making activities, the involvement of counsellors, the overall process of preparing for the rescue of Agrokor? That would be correct on his part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77961	Thank you. We're done with this part of the session now. It is now up to the respected colleague Branko Hrg, the HDS Representatives' Club, HSLS, HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77963	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have been around the world with few of these previous exhibitions, and I want to talk about wild pigs about the relations of wild boars and people living in Croatia, about who threatens whom. It's a funny subject at first sight, but it's very serious. I'm talking from a very specific example, I'm talking about the inhabitants of my neighborhood in the villages of Opatovece, Glogovnica, Military Osijek, the Chabrai towards Rasinj about the area where people stop dealing with agriculture because of wild boars, about the end where people didn't sow corn on spring seed because it's not worth it. Anything that the wild boars sow on them, about the end where people will, in the extreme, be forced to leave because of the inability of agricultural production they've always been dealing with. Why am I saying that? I know that there are these problems all over Croatia, that this is not just my end, that this problem appears everywhere, because people are left to the mercy of bureaucracy. Everyone washes their hands, everyone transfers responsibility to someone else, no one takes this job seriously, so you have a constant outwitting between I don't know, hunting alliances, hunting societies, the Department of Agriculture, local self-government, and in the end no one solves it. This may seem quite a harmless problem, but I assure you that he is very serious for people who meet with him daily and call from this pay phone in this sector to try to find a common solution that will really offer answers to this problem, who will start systematically solving this problem and stop this attack of wild pigs on the population, because people are simply threatened. I've listened to dozens of times requests and cries from those same people and they don't really know where to go anymore. Here's my appeal to the rest of the ministry to take this problem very seriously, to make sure that some kind of legal regulation, whether or not a regulation, is a regulation to pick up everyone for the purpose that they can participate in, and to go into the planning of feral pigs in a way that prevents their further expansion and enable people to live. All we need is for one of the animal-protective people to remember that they might be threatened to protect them so that we can get that problem later, and then it's best if the local self-government is carrying those costs, so that, with one dog taking care of 12,000 kuna a year, we get into a situation where we start taking care of wild pigs and making people move into cities. I repeat, the problem is very serious, many parts of the Republic of Croatia have this problem, many people are struggling with it and can't help it. Let's help them out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77964	Next up is a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work, and as it usually is on Wednesdays the first day of the week we have a free speech. Six clubs have applied, so the first one would be a respected colleague, Dodig, and a respected colleague, Lovrinović, Goran Aleksic, Bozo Petrov, Josip Križanić and Marija Puh. Is anyone else picking up? A fellow Pupovac, that's seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77966	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDSS club, I'm calling for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77967	Okay. That's it. Then we have seven debates, we can go. The first is the Club of Representatives HDS, HSLS and HDSSB-respected counterpart Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77968	The Honorable Mr. President of the Assembly with his associates. Here I have reported how the usual word here is, to talk about, when I was thinking about what I would talk about and why I would talk about it, then I thought of a dozen topics that were more important than most important, topics that occupied the Croatian public, which seemed to be done for us, but obviously they did not. The issue of Agrokor, the issue of shipyards that we thought were completed, Croatia Airlines, the referendum initiative, the educational process, demographic renewal, emigration from Croatia and... the system as a whole, the Istanbul Convention, etc., etc. So all those who deserve serious attention. But when I thought about how to talk about them both in how and how they were presented in public, what implications they got then I thought of Ante Starcevic who said in time that everything that was serious must be dealt with in the institutions and in the Parliament. So many years ago, a man who had experience in politics, who knew what the institutions meant and how the state should be run, warned of something that motivated me to just speak this way. But I realized that such serious subjects as I have stated are, of course, in the time and space in which we are talking about them are naked, unimaginable, irresponsiblely politically set, that they have started to uncontrollably roll asphalt with all the consequences of anarchy that threatens to turn into terror streets, which threatens to turn into terror injustices, which are threatened in combination with techniques that can be knocked up to easily identify the culprits of dissatisfactions, to easily identify enemies, to easily identify groups, to easily identify opponents who can become target groups of certain groups, and then lead to extremely serious situations. That's how I'm going to mention just one case that I heard on one of the TVs the other day, which means that superficial information that lasts for ten seconds, but that produces an incredible effect. On one of the TVs, it is said literally that in the second grade of secondary school, 50% of them think about leaving Croatia because they do not want to live here and because they want to move out. Not doubting the authenticity of this research and the author of this research, but the way it was presented turned out that the conclusion was completely inadequate to what the high school students were saying and that they were talking about things that I have to say clearly here, they have no idea, they have no idea. And now where does that get us, gentlemen? It puts us in a position to think about what we do with the freedom we have, what we do with how we treat this freedom that can push us into freedom of terror, freedom of uncontrolled aggression that will cost us all greatly. It's time to start thinking about it and put our emotions in the context of our functions here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77969	Thank you, too. We are going to the 5th debate, the HDS, HSLS and HDSB's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77971	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday thematic session of the County Assembly of Koprivnica and Križevci County was held on the topic of the Regional Centre for Waste Management of Piškornica, which was very often spoken of here and which could not be initiated from a dead end. We all know that it is a centre that should address the issue of waste management from 4 counties of Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska, Međimurje and Koprivnica Cruise. After the assembly, a political option outlined under quotes a very interesting idea, colleagues say it will launch a referendum on whether the regional centre could be in Koprivnica Ivanac. It is obviously the time of the referendum and at this time in Croatia, so it is done for a variety of things. I am not saying that citizens should not respect the will of citizens, I am not against referendums and such statements, but in this case it is one very unserious, so it could be called a move by some other word, because the request is laid out in a way that if a fast road is to be built from Križevci to Koprivnica and to the Hungarian border, in that case, practically Piškornica as a regional centre could go on. So now I'm asking myself really the question of whether we can really fall for this kind of story, in a way that on the one hand shows harmfulness, the alleged harmfulness of the waste management center. And on the other hand, it won't be harmful if you build a fast road. It must not be allowed for the Regional Waste Management Centre to be associated with the construction of a fast road. The regional centre is primarily the municipality of Koprivnički Ivanec, the town of Koprivnica and Koprivnica-križevnica County, then the other three counties and it is a separate project, a separate story. It must absolutely meet all the conditions in order to protect the environment and human health and that is one thing. fast road, continuing construction from Crosses towards Koprivnica simply must have no alternative and no additional condition, it must start to build. And I call on colleagues who deal with politics in that area of Koprivnica-Kristevci County not to make such crazy demands because they question and build a regional centre and question the construction of a fast road. So I repeat, two separate projects that must be found in one part and agreed on in the area where it should be done and the fast road Križevci-Koprivnica is a programme and a project that simply has to go, I expect from the Ministry of Resorship and the Croatian Roads to be found in the programme for the next year and for the projection of the period behind it, and I do not agree to put it as a condition for anything else. She just needs to start building.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77972	I thank you before my colleague Panenic, I would only ask that we welcome our guests. With us are students and students and their professors of the Hotel-Tourist School from Zagreb, welcome. [[Applause.]] We're going to the next debate. Dear counterpart Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77974	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We all come from some local environments. A colleague spoke about the city of Zagreb earlier, and I will say a few things here today about my town about the town of Križevci where I live, and in the context of people with disabilities. So in the town of Križevci there is one Association of Persons with Disabilities Križevci about which here in this Assembly has been spoken many times, which is an excellent association, which has so far withdrawn from various funds over 11 million kunas in the last 10 years, which employs what on programs to help people with disabilities which in Hedon Company that produces chocolate and praline that you have had recently here and tasted, about 46 people of which 19 people with disabilities. The City Leadership with the Mayor has joined the Association of Persons with Disabilities in one incorrect way and threatens the possibility that Hedona Company, social entrepreneurship, comes into major troubles and may cease to function because the city is unable to provide some 150 thousand kuna to help rent space that should be arranged from a particular fund of funds that should be approved and for which the association has a great chance of being able to do so. At the same time, the same amount is spent for the tourist event in the town of Križevci, Križevci large Središće in a way that does not purposely spend 150 thousand kuna and now the budget rebalancing tries to align what was spent 10, 15 days ago instead of joining a person with disabilities. So this is about more problems, it seems to me to be one of the illegal spending of budget money, spending in advance without secured positions, while at the same time putting and throwing on the knees of persons with disabilities and Hedon Company who employs persons with disabilities. Why am I talking about it here? I am speaking because the opposition in the town of Križevci was impossible to step up and perform in any media because the mayor of the town of Križevci automatically became the President of the Assembly of Radio Križevci, so he appointed his director who, with the help of a private entrepreneur who had his share in the Radio Križevci and it happened that ten days after the mayor appointed his director, bought the same director from the same entrepreneur who bought the stake in the radio and now the mayor of the city and the director of Radio Križevci have absolute domination in Radio Križevci and there no one can even access it, let alone publish anything. At the same time, no information can be provided on some local portals. We know that they function mostly in a way that has their donors, sponsors, they have contracts so here the situation is and we generally come into one situation of one of the asphyxiation of the thought, asphyxiation of the diversity of thought, asphyxiation of democracy, and one by all accounts of the very likely conflict of interest of the mayor himself in malfeasance by setting up the director and taking over the stakes in Radio Križevci. It's really not clear how city leadership can't understand that it's much more important to give 150 thousand kunas to a disabled group than to increase so much the budget of a event that ended ten days ago and cover the obvious commitments they made past the insurance funds in the budget. I believe that it will come to an end, that such things will be less and less happening. There are probably other parts of Croatia, but it should certainly be put to the end and allow it to be very transparent and clearly done so that these things do not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77975	We will now interrupt the debate in order to move on the basis of the new Rules of Procedure to applications for a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives or you popular pauses. The first break was sought by Mr Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm using this business opportunity to point out one big problem, one inappropriate behavior of the leadership of the city, local self-government towards the Association of Persons with Disabilities of the Cross. It is about the town of Križevci, it is already one that could be told about the continuing attack of the city's leadership against the Association of Persons with Disabilities and the company of the social entrepreneurship Hedon which the Association founded. I have recently pointed to a problem in this area between the city and the Association and the company Hedona. After that, there was an even bigger problem, namely, not only does the town of Križevci want to charge the social entrepreneurship of Hedona 150 thousand kuna for renting a space waiting for an arrangement from a fund that the Association is likely to receive and achieve and thus endangers the business of Hedona is now starting with another crazy idea. Namely, the space that Hedona uses to store its own, its packaging for the packing of chocolate, the city has been awarded to the Association of Persons with Disabilities of the Križevci and Hedona for use by the Association of small brewers Križevci. And then a memo came to the Association of Persons with Disabilities and the company Hedona that the space was assigned to the Association of small brewers and that they were obliged to move out of that space. Hedona's company will not move out of these areas, the president of the Association of Persons with Disabilities of the Križevci and the director of Hedona sent a memo to the city that this is inappropriate behaviour, that such a move will endanger the business of Hedona's social entrepreneurship. It is about the famous chocolate industry already in Croatia. That perhaps without a job, there will be nine people with disabilities and that the city can move Hedon out of that space only by means of an act. The Association of Persons with Disabilities decided to inform the Ombudsman about people with disabilities and I from this place, from this pay phone, I call on the Head of the town of Križevci to withdraw their decision, not to touch the Association of Persons with Disabilities and the company Hedon, not to touch the Association that employs about 46 people, of which 19 people with disabilities on various programmes for which they have provided funding from various funds and domestic and European funds in the last 10 years about 11 and a half million kuna. I am also sorry that the city's leadership has led to a very awkward situation of the Križevci Association because they are great people who are really doing a wonderful program and it is certain that none of them thought that they could harm the Association of Persons with Disabilities and Persons with Disabilities in order to achieve certain goals of the Association. I am convinced that each of them is willing to help the Association of Persons with Disabilities and that they simply do not want this situation. I believe that the Ombudsman will react and stop this insane attack by the leadership of the city on persons with disabilities and on the Association of Persons with Disabilities of the Cross and on the company Hedona social entrepreneurship that produces chocolate and enable the continuation of the production of chocolate and employment of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77977	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77978	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Predrag Matic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. This is the week in which we mark the legendary historic breakthrough of Jasenovac campers from the Jasenovac concentration camp. I am particularly attached to this topic since during the Homeland War I was a prisoner and camper of Serbian concentration camps and then this week when we mark how popular it is to say, the week of Jasenovsky and not Jasenovske columns, I would like to share with you a bad dream, a feeling that made me come forward today. I'd like to appeal to the hunters of Novska and Jasenovec to put an end to all their activities this week, so there is no possible tragedy. Namely, this week, every noise from a channel, forest or ditch doesn't necessarily mean that there are lye, deer or boars, because in view of the experience of previous years, it could be our President who is thinking about the anti-fascist past of his non-noise this week, while the rest of course of the week is thinking about an old Croatian greeting from there some time back in 1941 or while he's playing outside of his constitutional powers of assembling Croatian governments about the election. Here's just the division of one I have a dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77980	There's a colleague, Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77981	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. We asked for a break to discuss a subject that is very important for the citizens of the city of Zagreb. It is about the fact that in the city of Zagreb, there is an unconstitutional waste management, i.e. that the current city government only thinks about how to collect waste prices and announces that waste prices, waste prices and garbage from our fellow citizens' apartments and houses will collect about twenty percent in the next year, two. They justify this by investing additionally in the whole system so that certain new equipment should be obtained and additionally burdened on the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Of course there's no talking about it. This is exclusively about the fact that irresponsible, unsustainable and unplanned plans are being planned, or when it is related to waste management in the city of Zagreb and unless it is necessary to collect municipal services in Ljubljana, for example, and in other European metropolis there is no reason for this to happen in the city of Zagreb. Despite the fact that they are announcing the gatherings and that almost nothing is done these days around the city of Zagreb almost every corner, there are mini dumps and mini ecological bombs in the neighborhoods. Waste is slowly being driven away, city holding it very badly solved and citizens are justly dissatisfied. They should be supported and should not lack of infrastructure or lack of transport of waste be the reason for our neighborhoods in the city of Zagreb to be covered with garbage and for our citizens to live alongside mini dumps. What is an ecological bomb in the city of Zagreb that has been burdening it for many years has been an ecological bomb near the waterhole, meaning by the lake in Misečečka street near Lake Savica there are over 3,000 cubic pieces of garbage that have been illegally delayed there for years, and our mayor and city government are doing nothing to solve this problem. And now instead of solving these problems from neighborhoods to neighborhoods, from illegal dumps to illegal dumps, from crowded containers and places where citizens are dumping waste, they plan and propose a new waste management plan for the Zagreb Assembly, or the implementation of that plan that the Zagreb City Assembly should adopt on 26 April this year, means within a week in which they plan to build several mega-waste dumps in the city of Zagreb, there is one in Resnik over 250,000 tonnes of capacity per year, one compost in Brezovica is over 50,000 tonnes per year and one in Sub-Sidition-Vrapac is a recycling yard of construction material also with several tens of thousands of tons of annual materials that would be put off there. And what will result from such a plan that must not go to the city congregation at any cost? There will be problems for our fellow citizens in three urban districts, and I believe more widely because of environmental problems which, for example, will spread by wind from Subsid-Vrapca means in Sesvedi u Brezovica and in Subsid-Vrapče to our fellow citizens over 2000 our citizens will have a much lower quality of life than they have today. I call on all parties in the city assembly not to support this plan that Mr. Mayor of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic, wants to adopt probably encouraged by interested business groups who are in the interest of building such large centres and creating a new plan that would be tailored to the citizens of the city of Zagreb, because of what we should and should primarily take care of our fellow citizens, rather than a few businessmen who could contaminate billions of kunas in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77982	Thank you, fellow Marasu. We will continue the session with the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia at 15.00 with the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA. Thank you. It's 13, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77983	Following on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I want to talk about a burning problem that is plagued by a large number of young experts who are practically on their way out of the Republic of Croatia to join a colony of young educated people leaving the Republic of Croatia because the state does not show understanding for them. It is about masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics that the Ministry of Health ignores, discriminates and refuses to give them the right to work. Yesterday, in Osijek, at the Medical Faculty, people say, the most disturbing promotion in the history of Croatian higher education has been held, as 50 masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics have received their diplomas, knowing that the Ministry of Health does not recognise them and that they do not want to hire them. The health ministry does not want people to be further educated to provide Croatian citizens with better quality health care. Could there be a more terrible message coming from both Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Kujundzic? So on several occasions, both from this pay phone and through representative questions, I pointed to the problem of medical laboratory diagnostics, the master of medical laboratory diagnostics. And the answers I received from Andrej Plenkovic, from Minister Kujundzic, can only say that they are irresponsible, discriminatory and that they send only one message to all these people, and that is to leave Croatia. So, on the question of why the state is at all schooling and funding the study if afterwards calling the magistrates of medical laboratory diagnostics does not recognise, their response has always been based on avoidance of the essence, by citing a series of unverified insinuations for a specific problem, irrelevant allegations, apparently seeking to draw attention from the burning and real problems of Croatian citizens to whom the problems have been deafened by the government for years. Both the government and Minister Kujundzic do not answer questions as to why the state is funding a medical laboratory diagnostics study. In particular, university study programmes are financed from the state budget on the basis of a contract concluded with the ministry with the previously obtained positive opinion of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Therefore, it is clear from the above that the Agency for Science and Higher Education, as part of the system of state authorities, assessed that the above study was necessary for Croatia and therefore ensured its financing. It is also incorrect that the Government states that this study programme has been carried out without prior examination of the need for healthcare because the need for training staff in the field of laboratory diagnostics is evident and at the level of the most fundamental health care guaranteed by the constitution. This is also written in the National Health Development Strategy programme, as well as in the strategic guidelines for health development. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that this university study was not opened without consulting the health professional regulatory body because the Croatian Chamber of Health Care Professionals, the professional class for medical laboratory activities, participated all the time in collaboration with the university in the development of a curriculum and programme together with guidelines of the European Association for Professional Biomedical Science. Therefore, the Communication and the Recommendations and the European Directives are that progress towards higher levels of master and doctoral is an integral part of the education of healthcare professionals and medical laboratory diagnostic activities as well. Therefore, the Croatian legislation is not in line with the European Directive 2005/36 to date with the care of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, under conditions where the lack of proper staff closes our young graduates of medical laboratory diagnostics do not have the possibility of either determining traineeship or employment. I will mention that the closed laboratories in Kotoriba, in the police centre, in Prelog, in Donji Kraljec, in Chabra, in Vrbovska, Topuska, in Glina, in Croatia Kostanica and Makarska. I therefore call on Prime Minister Plenkovic, I call on Minister Kujundzic to fulfil their obligation and, in accordance with his announcements, to ensure that health protection is improved in Croatia and to ensure that young people do not leave Croatia, as soon as possible to amend the Health Activity Act and allow the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics to base their diplomas and not to be one-way tickets to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77985	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77986	Okay. Thank you, comrade Grmoy. I wasn't aware of it. I'll pass it on when he gets back out of the way to the President of the Parliament. We're going to the club stand now. Well, let's take it in a row. So, first of all, the SDP counseling club, right? Dear Representative Alexic, Live Wall, fellow Bulj, right? Of course, a living wall. [[Intruder: Live wall and power.]] Kola Zekanovic as an independent fellow Glasovic, a colleague of Dodig, a colleague of Grozdana Peric. Anyone else? No one. Thank you very much, then we'll take that in that order. Here you are, first on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77987	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. April and May are usually months in which Croatian society evokes memories of events from the same months 1945, which refer to markings in places where certain things happened in World War II that are not proud of our people, as well as other peoples. What was up to date last weekend, which is four columns marking one of the biggest NDH sites, the Jasenovac concentration camp, showed again divisions in the Croatian society that we thought were overcome a few years ago, and they show themselves again in their full light. We had four columns. First we had a column of representatives of the Jewish people, then the President of the Republic and Mr. Cicak went into the column, so the third column was on Saturday, where they were representatives of the SNV, the Alliance of anti-fascist fighters and most of those who wanted to mark the breakthrough and the death of campers in Jasenovac and then we had a fourth column in which, in my view, they were those who had to be there on the command line, which were representatives of the government and others who joined them in a slightly smaller number. But it's not a problem in four columns, it'd be good if it was one. I think the problem is in the 5th column, and the 5th column is the one that's in Jasenovac, so to speak with us, and in Parliament and Government with them. And when that fifth column decides to be one column, then it's going to be one column. The expression 5. column is used in another context, not in this arithmetic sequence, but in the best way it describes the relationship in which one day you are with those who tolerate without a problem for a home ready, and then the next day you marvel at it. So while you colleagues, who were with us on Saturday in the fifth column, don't be surprised we have four columns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77988	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77989	We have another presentation of the Club's position, the SDP's, the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We simply have to react today, because we all expected that the Croatian government would finally offer some solutions other than spins and messages that would start dealing with problems blocked, but today nothing in the Croatian government again. Although I say, the diameter of these days announced, it will be, it will be, we will offer, we will have solutions to help our blocked, but nothing. 325 000 people are left again today without any action, without any suggestion from the government of the Republic of Croatia. And all they have left to do is wait and look for a solution in the Croatian Parliament. And the SDP advocates' club insists on proposing laws, and yesterday there was one on the agenda. Very soon, we will propose a new law, which will not, according to government announcements, as Mr Plenkovic said, require someone to be blocked for 3 years, so that they can enter into the process of resolving the problem. But it will be resolved quickly for all those people who are up to one year in a particular problem. The SDP representative club is asking for it to be spotlessly placed on the Croatian Parliament, if the HDZ does not want it, we will put it through 30 signatures and for all 115 thousand blocked people who owe 10000, up to 10000 kn, to get rid of it immediately and for those people to be burdened by this burden. On the other hand, we ask that people who have 50,000 kn or less, can't be completed for real estate, the only unturned in which they live. And we're also asking for automated billing, that lawyers, public notebooks are not charged and that these costs are not higher than they are, infrequently, but that they are the debts that our citizens have themselves. One more thing I would like to warn you, that the area of debt reselling must be regulated better, there must be rules to do so, it must be monitored by HANFA on a daily basis and it must be made possible for the debtor, that if someone resells his debt, that he has the right to buy first. In case someone sells his debt by 30%, then that debtor has the right to buy that debt for 30% and finally solve his problem and we must not allow someone to come and make money on our fellow citizens' misfortunes. So these are the measures we have proposed today, these are the measures we have written in our laws, and we are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia, both HDZ and all in this House, to put them on the agenda and to start solving these problems. Because as we saw today, Mr. Plenkovic didn't go out with anything, and 325000 people are in big trouble. And another topic we want to open here is that this morning I gave myself a protest in front of the City Assembly, support for our fellow citizens, 200, 300 who have gathered from Brezovica, Vice-Secrets, to resist this violent behavior of mayors, who doesn't care at all that we have the right to a clean city, to arrange, to collect waste, not to build mega centres in Resnik for the collection of waste or some composite in Brezovica. Or a mega recycled yard in Podsuded Vrapac, but we have the right to a balanced, normal solution, which will ensure that the City of Zagreb retains what it has and what it has, which is a clean environment of nature, Medvednica, lakes, I would say, one unique area in the Republic of Croatia, which, with this kind of thing, I have said to another violent plan and I am calling off all parties in the City of Zagreb, and here HDZ, which we see today, has decided to be restrained about this plan. So this plan must have a significant change and it must be rejected and we must accept a sustainable plan that will be tailored to our citizens. Mayor Bandic must learn that he cannot do what he wants, that he cannot manage the City of Zagreb as if it were his property and that on the other hand he must respect what our fellow citizens think. I urge once again, all citizens, all Zagreb and Zagrebers to support the rejection of the plan, to bring a quality plan, and all political participants in the city's assembly to resist it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77991	I thank my esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras, for giving this attitude. With this we have exhausted the position of the club of representatives, we will continue to work at 15.00 hours with the agenda point annual State aid report for 2016 and until then I will set a break. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77992	Let's move on, now it's SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77993	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The day before yesterday, I was in Karlovac to mark the Day of Liberation of the City from which I draw my roots and mention the record as a memory of one of the greatest heroes and the person who marked the Karlovac but also Croatian anti-fascist history, under the exception of renewal to the infirmary, was removed from that infirmary and was never returned again. Later, this great anti-fascist and humanist crossed the Sava River and extended the city to the southern bank of the Sava River, yes, it is about Veceslav Holjevac. And when I cross Kukuljevic's street in Karlovac, where Veseslav Holjevac lived to see his grandfather's family home and his father, every time I remember the size, the character and the works of that folk hero. The tragic fact is that in Croatia, in numerous municipalities and cities, symbols of anti-fascist struggle are removed, as are the names of streets and squares. Unfortunately, a recent example of the removal of Marshal Tito Square is an example of our capital city, the city of Zagreb. Historical auditism and changing streets and squares deal with those who have no idea and no vision for the future, while at the same time our people walk European streets and squares looking for a job. Let's remember how it started back in the '30s. An inhuman came to power in Germany to hide his evil and vicious intentions with alleged concern for citizens, a better life, and he said what the citizens wanted to hear. After that, he dealt with all who were different by religious, national, sexual, or political beliefs. Epilogue, Long Knife Night, race laws, holocaust. Antifascism was the only answer to that evil. And so today we must inherit positive anti-fascism fluids. Values, freedom and justice. Young people in the Republic of Croatia need to know, and in order to know they must hear and learn in schools what a crime it was committed in World War II. It just shows how important it is to have a clear view of this atrocities that killed millions, tens of millions of bloodthirsty, innocent civilians. Until one of them pleads for antifascism at all, the others are ashamed. Why is it evidence that the day of victory over fascism they refused to give patronage? I will remind those who are ashamed of the part written in the Croatian Constitution, which refers to the establishment of the foundation of Croatian statehood, the foundation of state sovereignty in the period from World War II is seen in the decisions of ZAVNOH expressed contrary to the declaration of NDH 1941. Therefore, the Croatian Constitution very clearly confirmed that the Partisans were the only legitimate army in Croatia in World War II. On the other hand, we have Ustashas who have been on the side of defeated fascist ideology and have committed terrible crimes like those of Jasenovac. Today in Jasenovac, unfortunately, we have two columns, three columns marking the campers' breakthrough. It's just a confirmation how much this government truly cares about anti-fascism. What I am sure is that when the SDP takes responsibility for the Republic of Croatia for the third time, it will restore the dignity and dignity of marking this tragedy and we will have only one column in Jasenovac again. I therefore call on all in the Republic of Croatia to make their position on anti-fascism public, clear and loud. Citizens need to know that. The SDP was and will be the only strong defence in defending the right to freedom, equality and equality of every man, regardless of his religious, national or any other commitment. Therefore, in this case, the attempt to abolish the constitutionally guaranteed rights of national minorities through a referendum on electoral legislation, we will say clearly and out loudly. And that's why today, on the day of victory over fascism and Europe Day, I am sending a clear message to those who are trying to falsify history, to those who deny or banalize the fact that in World War II, dozens of millions of civilians have been killed, to those who approve of occasional use. the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready" and those who turn their heads from modern, free Europe built on the foundations of antifascism. ... [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] built on the foundations of antifascism, lived modern...... [[/The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77994	My colleague Bernardić, we've crossed 20 seconds, messages... The messages you said were your messages, legitimate, everything's fine, but don't do it anymore. [[You can't hear it.]] You have five minutes like everyone else and please hold on to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77995	Next application for a position on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, counterpart Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77996	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break to present to the Croatian public, and I think it is very important in the tone record that Mrs. Martina Dalic is not telling the truth, or they would say our people are lying. So now here's the answer to the question of what it has to do with the lawyer's office Shavorić gave it this way. Please listen carefully. .../Advocacy releases the cell phone footage into the microphone. Here I've let you hear a dozen times that Mrs. Martina Dalic at the meeting of the Committee on Economy says literally Šavoric, my relationship with Šavoric is nothing. And now we've seen that he's lying, that it's not like that, that in the past few days the whole communication with the lawyer's office Shavorić and there the people who work there were very agile, very active, that the data was being exchanged, that things were being arranged. And what happens after that? How does Prime Minister Plenkovic react, as the ruling coalition responds, and can we conclude on this basis that Prime Minister Plenkovic is defending Mrs Dalic after this apparent untruth she has spoken and everything she has done, and what is now whitedening to all Croatian citizens, can we believe in his innocence or that man had nothing to do with it, that he knew nothing? It seems to me earlier that Prime Minister Plenkovic is headed by this corrupt octopus, as we have already said today during the day. That's why, of course, it's not possible to ignore it and let things go on their own. We call here the State Attorney's Office to react immediately, we call on HANFA to react because you are careful now from the documentation we see that Ramljak and other friends in this entire process were getting inside information from the company whose companies are listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. So Agrokor, or an employee of Agrokora, was supplying inside information to Mrs Dalic, who continued to forward them to these friends who wrote the law and who helped her with this whole work. HANFA must react, so there are people who are still on the capital market today working on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Where's HANFA? Where's DORH? Ramljak says at these meetings, the same Committee on Economy called him the American scavenger funds to talk because they heard he was well directed to Agrokor. So now we see that he was very well directed to Agrokor and that he could provide information to these companies on the basis of which they purchased Agrokor bonds. Di is HANFA, where are the competent institutions that should be dealt with? So these funds earned hundreds of millions of kunas apparently based on information Mr. Ante Ramljak had, and these consultants then earned tens of millions of kunas based on what apparently the American consultant hired them and on what apparently they chose who would be the American consultant or who would be consultants in Agrokor. And once again, I have to and can't do it without having to play that lovely voice again... /The representative is playing a tape from his cell phone into a microphone. /... Mrs. Martine Dalic who speaks... /The representative is playing a tape from his cell phone into a microphone./...to hear again as your Deputy Prime Minister... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77997	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77998	And finally, Mr. Arsen Bauk in front of the SDP club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u77999	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The current subject of e-mails has been a lot of speeches these days and today, and I myself have participated in a press conference, so I will return to a historic topic in this 5-minute debate. Tomorrow, a ceremony is held on the Bliss field, which is the sponsor of the Croatian Parliament. I am sorry that the Croatian Parliament is the sponsor of this memorial because it did not happen in previous years as a memorial to the victims but as a marriage to a failed state. I want to make it clear that all those who were killed after World War II for the revenge of the winners, all those who fought against Franjo Tudjman and Janko Bobetka deprived the lives of the victims and those who made them victims were criminals. That doesn't mean that one of the victims wasn't a criminal at the same time because he had previously deprived someone of their lives. It is also necessary to make it clear about our drinking to innocent victims always and to honor the failed fascist quinspeak production of NDH never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78000	Thank you very much. ... It's already announced, well, Wednesday at 9.30 here, same time, same place. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let me read more, well, for those who weren't there, they have rights like those who were, maybe they had important jobs. Wednesday, 16 May 2018, at 9.30 p.m., the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on the European Partnership, an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Enjoy the weekend. The session was interrupted at 13.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78001	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. First we'll start with free debates, now I'll tell you how you handed over the order, so if anyone else calls, we'll register it. So, the first is SDP's Club of Representatives, and then MOST, Independent for Croatia, GLAS-HSU, Independent Representative Vlaho Orepić, HSS, HDZ and SDSS. Is anyone else picking up? If not then, we will begin the debates, the first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and dear colleague Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78002	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On Monday, it became clear that the Prime Minister, HDZ and HNS was deeply involved in the Agrokor affair, more specifically in the extraction of more than 500m kuna for advisory services. Plenkovic knew everything, which confirms the content of the e-mails. It is obvious that information has been traded and that individuals have been favored, which is abuse of position and authority under the Penal Code. I remind you that also undermining a crime is a criminal offence under Croatian law. I say this time, no attempt to buy time, no banalizing the whole story, no turning away. Croatia must not be the hostage of one man. I do not expect the political responsibility of the Prime Minister because there is no, but I am asking myself a question, where the political responsibility of all of you who supported Martin Dalic until yesterday during the vote on her recall, you are aware that you have made a mistake but it is obvious that you do not feel any responsibility towards your voters and therefore insist on a mistake in supporting this government. If the former Deputy Prime Minister had to leave the day before yesterday, it certainly wasn't because of the credit, then we rightly wonder why the DORH isn't still acting? Have the institutions of the state failed, and are there political influences on SOA and the DORH? I cannot and cannot look back on today's report by the European Commission against racism and intolerance of the Council of Europe for 2017, which states among other things that in Croatia it is escalating a racist speech of hatred against Serbs, LGBT persons and Roma, to strengthen nationalism in the form of the grandeur of the constitution especially among young people. Furthermore, the same report explicitly states that this government is doing nothing to prevent it. And imagine the absurdity, this same government is supported by representatives of minorities who are considered endangered in this report, which means that these same minority representatives support violence against members of their minority community and the spread of the constitution and hatred. There is evidence of chaos in the state due to the incompetence of this government. The state was ruled by nepotism, corruption, crime and hatred. Against all those who are second and different by religious, national or any other definition. Due to all this, there is no dilemma for the SDP that Croatia is in an emergency. The government no longer has political legitimacy, the citizens have lost confidence in this government and the institutions of the Croatian state and therefore we are sending in the procedure requests for the disbanding of the parliament and calling for elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78003	We move on to the next statement of the position of the SDP Club. Dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially you from the ruling majority, although you are not so many now. Please answer my question why did Mrs. Dalic resign? It's a question that I am extremely interested in today, very much, because I've been listening to you since the early morning when you kept saying that when you brought Lex Agrokora, everything was fine, everything was right. Nothing was done against the law. Well, let's say my colleague Bacic says there's absolutely nothing controversial about it. Everything was fine. Well, respected colleagues and colleagues, if all was well, why did Mrs. Dalic resign? If all was well, Mr. Plenkovic should have run to Mrs. Dalic this morning and probably beg her on her knees to return to the government because this resignation was unnecessary. If everything was okay. However, I'm afraid, I'm sure, and the sparrows on the branch already know there was nothing wrong with this situation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Borg group created a model by which they would work free of charge for the state, and then be charged by a company that it would take over under the law. The Borg group created a way to assimilate Agrokor and extract millions from it. A group of Borg organized and assembled by Mrs. Dalic. The Borg group, supervised or at least controlled by Prime Minister Plenkovic, to whom the Borg group, its participants and their activities were presented by Mrs Dalic. Three times. Not once, not twice, three times at least. Also yesterday, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia swore he had no idea about the process, and today we know that he not only met three times with those who prepared the process of making laws and taking over Agrokor, but also worked on special presentations for him. Three times anyway. But he didn't know anything. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic knew everything that happened in the preparation of lex-Agrokora, knew everything that happened when an extraordinary administration was introduced, and he knew everything that happened afterwards. But he didn't react, he didn't do anything to stop it. And you can argue as much as you want it to be better that Agrokor came to Texo Management and he got rich than some firm from Graz came or what I know from where. But it's not like that. Texo management, alter and others came up with a law that made them rich. It was made possible by Mrs. Dalic, who organized them and gathered them, and all this time he watched Mr. Plenkovic and met with them and it was completely different for him. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the last few years in the Republic of Croatia, we have often had opportunities to hear the notion of a joint criminal enterprise. We've heard about this a lot. I believe that many here, and especially Croatian citizens, have never fully understood what this is about when we talk about a joint criminal enterprise. Well, I believe that's quite clear today. The joint criminal enterprise is when you gather a group that is then called the Borg, when that group thinks and thinks about how they will prepare the law, when that group then implements the law, and when that group after implementing the law brings millions into its pocket. It's a joint criminal enterprise, when the government's vice president and prime minister are at the head of the organization who doesn't care about anything. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is time to resign and it is time to start dealing with those institutions that are in the job description of the persecution of perpetrators of criminal offences after the resignation of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78005	I thank my fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78006	We're continuing our free speech. We have on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club a respected colleague named Peja Grbin, just please wait for the assembly to settle down for those who want to stay. My colleagues and colleagues, I am now asking you to allow my colleague Grbina to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78007	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Former High Commissioner for Agrokor made the following statement, so Mr Ramljak says, it is true that Prime Minister Plenkovic had no knowledge of the process and how the main adviser in Agrokor was elected. It was my responsibility under the law. But respected colleagues and colleagues, is that right? Is everything just like Mr. Ramljak said? Personally and on behalf of his club, the SDP's Club of Representatives can say that it is not true. Namely, art. 12, St. 1. Indeed, the Emergency Administration Act is prescribed, an extraordinary commissioner will select resolution advisers, auditors, legal advisers and advisers for other areas within 30 days. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, but the same paragraph of the same article, the same Law, is prescribed and the following, the extraordinary Commissioner is obliged to result in the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy to appoint advisers. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Law we passed in the Croatian Parliament, which was voted by you and the current ruling majority and colleagues from MOST, the Law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and when it was sent to the procedure was signed by the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, it is prescribed that an adviser, excuse me, that an extraordinary commissioner cannot choose his own advisers. The law explicitly requires that advisers in Agrokor or in any company under which an extraordinary administration can be chosen only with the prior consent of the Ministry of Economy. And who was the head of the Ministry of Economy? Mrs. Dalic. By law, Mrs. Dalic had to give consent to the election of advisors to the extraordinary administration in Agrokor. Now, dear colleagues and colleagues, when we read the statement made by Mr Ramljak, one logical question is imposed, which is either by selecting its advisers without the consent of the Ministry of Law and not by asking for the consent he had to receive, in which case the Ministry of Economy and Minister Dalic for this violation did not do anything to correct it because they were probably concerned or, in particular, I leave it to each of you to conclude what is true, or Mr Ramjak today does not speak the truth and defend the Prime Minister. When we add to this a statement that we could also read today in the media, given by one of the Borg's members, the prime minister had some political and ethical doubts. The prime minister had some political and ethical doubts, but it was decided to remain an informal group. It is clear then that the prime minister has been involved in all important decisions on how the law will be prepared, how the group will act, and how the group will then enter Agrokor and swallow up millions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we asked to discuss the Law of Conflict of Interest. We asked for a conflict of interest to be extended to an extraordinary commissioner. His statement today shows why we had to do so. I am extremely sorry that you did not accept all the arguments and that on the day that Croatia takes over the Presidency of the Council of Europe, when Croatia puts the fight against corruption as its priority, you opened the door wide to this corruption in one of the most important segments of the Croatian economic order, which is the procedure of the extraordinary administration in Agrokor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all of what has come out in the past 10 days, all the actions that have taken place, and especially the press conference yesterday, at which the prime minister was sweating under the unfortunate issues of our media, points out one thing, which is that the prime minister knew everything he was responsible for and must leave or that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia knew nothing, which means he didn't do his job and ultimately he must leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78008	We're going to the next debate, SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78009	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. These days we are witnessing that Croatia's additionally ugly international reputation and reputation of the government are among the citizens of our country. The reason for this is the biggest corruption affair in Croatia's history, weighing 500 million kn, and by some indications much more. And that's why I'm right to ask two questions again. First, to the Commissioner in Agrokor, Mr Perusk, why he did not deliver the documents to the trade court, from which it would be visible how much commission the Borg group will receive for the roll-up contract. The public must know that the cost of an adviser of 500 million kuna is not all, and it will be far greater. On the other hand, why did Peru deliver within 5 days, as ordered by the commercial court, religious groups which are the basis for the establishment of a permanent religious council and which is the prerequisite for the settlement. Namely, the appointed Commissioner, the HDZ and HNS governments allow themselves, in the most cruel way possible, to break laws, which they wrote for their own needs and for their own wealth, arguing that there is no need to form a permanent religious council. It's a lie and it's just one more piece of evidence, as far as this greasy and arrogant government is willing to go to cover up their incompetence, their unhappiness and robbery. And if the former Deputy Prime Minister had to leave, and we all know it wasn't because of the credit, then we rightly ask again why the DORH isn't acting. Whether to wait for evidence to be hidden or to wait because it is directly influenced by policy. In fact, the Prime Minister made a statement that advisers should return the money, in fact publicly admitted that there was a reasonable suspicion of committing criminal acts. It also seems funny to know that, by chance, of all the offices in the city of Zagreb, for the purposes of shooting Plenkovic's video, the Office of Lawyers of Šavoric is chosen. But, as he says, they haven't seen each other since long ago. In this affair, it's so coincidence that for Gine's book it's a record and it reminds me of some bad movie, at the end it writes, every coincidence with real people and events is random. We were once again convinced that there was a great need to react to the DORH because from new sources, apparently, that the Borg group tried to own interest through both HEP and INA. It is evident that this government and HDZ allow the Borg group to get rich and put money, citizens in their pockets. That all seems a bit like a criminal association to me. It was enough for Croatians to rule over lawlessness, crime, corruption. Croatia must not be the hostage of one man. We will never allow Sanaders, Ramljacs, Daliæka, FIMA-media to happen again in Croatia, as usual. In Croatia we will introduce order, the laws must become equal for everyone, and crime, corruption, robbery and kidnapping must begin to be punished. Since the government no longer has credibility with Croatian citizens, and in order to stop this chaos and lawlessness, we are looking for the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament and the launch of early parliamentary elections. And I call upon you in the end all MPs from the ruling coalition, and in particular representatives of national minorities who are now aware that they have made a mistake when they supported Martina Dalic in her impeachment vote, I call on you MPs to vote to disband the parliament and thus show that you are not wet in this five hundred million kunas of a difficult affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78010	And the last club is the SDP on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78011	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. If you didn't know here yesterday the full implementation of full curricula reform and implementation of the Education, Science and Technology Strategy adopted in the Croatian Parliament began, but backwards, backwards. I wonder when the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to give up the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology adopted in the Croatian Parliament? Why and on whose behalf did the Government of the Republic of Croatia decide to ignore that part of the strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament which says that we will work on professionalising the role of directors to tighten the criteria for selecting directors, on their better education, on ensuring quality of school management, on reducing political influence, on better governance of public institutions, that we will have the best of the best because only our schools can be so best and only so can our Croatian society go forward through development? When did we give up that document? Who decided that, and why did he decide that the election of directors would be preceded by defenders and members of their immediate and wider families? We already have in the system at the time of employment one measure that says that defenders have a privileged position and advantage in employment in Croatian schools, although many in the system feel that it is unfair we are right to consume it and it is all right. And I'm a Croatian defender's child, my dad didn't run away, he went to war, he didn't go as many defenders to enjoy today-to-morrow some privileges, but out of love and obligation to his country. And what the government thought it did the defenders a favor, which in some ways with only an apparent choice, and without a choice, will name them at the head of Croatian schools, dormitories, kindergartens actually just deepened the gap. It does that every day, every day shares society on various grounds. Now she has decided to share the profession in a way that is equal and equal to others. And it's not right, and we could get it off our backs. With all due respect to all those who have given their lives and health for Croatia, I must say that none of these people have fought for privileges, that they have fought for a society in which freedom, justice and equality will rule, and a society in which we will not constantly return to the past, but we will watch our children today provide a better future. And a better future can only be provided with the highest quality education, a better future can only be guaranteed by having quality schools and having high-quality people run those schools and that these children see that by being the best they can achieve and take on greater responsibility in society. The society that does not appreciate quality and does not best choose is condemned to have young people flee to Ireland. A colleague of mine just texted me, he's got the status of counsel, but he says that if he's ever running for principal he wants to be elected because he's recognized as the best choice for school, not because he's a lawyer. So much for the new law and direction of the minister, stop sharing society and do not make this society an Orwell story that in this society there are equal and equal to others, but give a chance to all, be chosen best regardless of who the foster parents, parents, minorities, members of any group, but not to be chosen just because they are part of a particular group. That's all we ask and all we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78012	Thank you very much. The next club is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear and numerous colleagues and colleagues, I will talk today about a conflict of interest. Unfortunately, such discussions have been common in the Croatian Parliament lately. However, they are common because they are necessary. Last Friday, Croatia took over the presidency of the Council of Europe. As one of its priorities with the Presidency of the Council of Europe, Croatia has defined the fight against corruption. And what did we do the day we took over the Presidency of the Council of Europe? In the wake of the biggest corruption scandal in the Republic of Croatia, we have decided that an extraordinary commissioner in societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia will not be within the reach of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. We've concluded that there's no such thing as a corrupt risk there for days, weeks, months now, for over a year now, we've been hearing about all the problems and all the dubiosis that have been made by the two extraordinary commissioners so far. But that wasn't enough. I guess in honor of the Presidency of the Council of Europe and in honor of the declared priority of fighting corruption, we have now gone a step further. And we went one step further in a way that we hit the very foundations of the fight against corruption we hit the Law on the prevention of conflict of interest. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ruling majority first replaced Mrs. Oreshkovic from the presidency of the commission, despite some shortcomings, despite the fact that despite some shortcomings, the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest in five years of work under the chairmanship of Ms. Dalia Oreshkovic has made a step in the fight against conflicts of interest, and therefore a step in the fight against corruption. That's the facts. What was the prize? Mrs. Oreshkovic has been removed. However, it was not enough for rulings. After they replaced Mrs. Oreshkovic, we found out who they pushed into the position of the new queen of the fight against conflicts of interest. The position was pushed recently by the Knin Queen, Mrs. Josipo Rimac, who must have proved her qualification by the fact that she was twice sanctioned by the Committee for Conflict of Interest. It probably qualified her to lead and to work on making a Law to prevent conflicts of interest. Fortunately, as an opposition to this point, the public went wild and we had the kind of pressure that in democratic societies not only necessary but we saw and very, very useful and Mrs. Romec fortunately left that position. However, we now see from the latest information that, despite the fact that Mrs. Rimac has left the main post of the Working Group on the Making of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, her spirit, the spirit of conflict of interest still lives there. What did we get? We've received the minister's proposal for a law that does not sanction a conflict of interest. I guess in Croatia we decided to redefine thousands of years of the legal history of the modern world and concluded that we should fight certain negative phenomena in society in a way that is not sanctioned. One of the fundamental settings of any right that includes sanctioning is that there is no punishment without law, "zero points son of a leg", and then I am telling those, above all, that if there is no list of acts forbidden for such acts, Mr Kuštević cannot be imposed. But I don't know if that's his goal, I guess, I hope this is just gaff, I hope this is just another coincidence in a series of recent times in Croatia, especially when we talk about conflict of interest too. The coincidence as if the company owned by Mr. Todorovic is campaigning for HDZ and then the companies are free of charge, free of charge to rent an apartment or Mr. Šavoric's office to record a video for the same HDZ, etc. Well, then we have another coincidence that when the government's vice-president, Mrs. Dalic and the Prime Minister, are taking action before the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest, the HDZ government is proposing that the Commission no longer be able to punish. Someone believes in coincidences, I don't. Honored HDZ gentlemen, if it's from you, it's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78015	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78016	We're going to SDP and colleague Nenad Stazic's Club now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78017	Your Honor. After this morning's attack in Parliament, I want to respond, and so does my party. After the minister of education said that defenders should take precedence in the election for school principals and school institutions, a reaction came to the whole reasonable Croatia, all against it being raised to their feet. People were wondering how far? What else? Should we have an advantage in selecting a team and then first the defenders, then those who know how to play football? Should we take precedence in the selection of museum directors? The director of the theater? How far does that go? He followed my cynical status that defenders should have the advantage of going to Ireland as well. They say they created a state. They defended her, they didn't create her, she was created before. They were defending her. A country that's moving out of today like it's never been before, and what do people run from? Out of the way of life in this country, as young people, they won't be able to be school principals or museum directors because they couldn't even be in the war, because they're too young, they're too late born. I rebelled against it, and I wrote such a cynical status. To understand cynicism requires a certain dose of intelligence. Okay, she's not evenly deployed. I also wrote May 9th status that we have nothing to celebrate victory over fascism because he is not defeated in Croatia, because we still have a home plate ready for public exposure, because Thompson sings about Gradiška old and Jasenovac and no one complains, and no one objectes, because Parliament President refuses to be patron of the day of victory over fascism. And I think we need that fight. The Fascism deal didn't end in '45. like he ended up everywhere in Europe. Can you imagine in Germany today someone starts to question that the greetings of zil is an old German greeting or a Nazi? Well, I don't think they'd take him to prison for Zekanovic, but directly to the first ambulance as fast as possible to the asylum, that would happen in Germany. Angela Merkel went to Moscow two years ago to celebrate the day of victory and said never the German people could be grateful enough to the Russian people for liberating him from the evil Nazism. I have never heard of Zekanovic from either of you, nor will I hear you say that you will never be able to be grateful enough to anti-fascists, Tito's Partisans, who freed us from evil, from evil rebellion. When I hear it from someone from the government, then I'll say I live in a normal country and that was the meaning of my status. By the time you figure it out, it's gonna take some time. We have a president of the Republic who speaks, speaks publicly of all these phenomena, I Fascism in Croatia do not see, and casts out the bust of the leader of the anti-fascist movement from his office. Otherwise, the president doesn't see anything, she doesn't talk about anything, neither does the Istanbul Convention, she doesn't comment on the SDP proposal on constitutional changes, and we consider these constitutional changes to be one of the important topics. But to paraphrase Churchill, the great anti-fascism fighter, who, among other things, is Zekanovic if you don't know... He ordered the bombing of Dresdan, so no one asked him why he did it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They gave him the Nobel Prize, though, for literature. To paraphrase Churchill, we won't get tired, we won't stop fighting, we'll fight on the beaches, we'll fight at sea, we'll fight on the streets, we'll fight on land, we'll fight in the air. We will fight for the values that the SDP represents, we will fight for anti-fascism, we will fight against the revitalisation of the constitution, we will fight for the equality of all citizens, not for some to have a greater advantage than others, we will fight for one day when this President of the Parliament is not, the Croatian Parliament is the patron of the day of victory over fascism, we will fight for constitutional change to make it possible for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78018	We're going to the 3rd debate, SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78019	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. We called for this break, to warn of the chaos that is happening in the waste management of the City of Zagreb and 4 fires in the last 4 years that occurred in a private company in the City of Zagreb, which is suspicious of what is going on there in the first place. The police don't find the people who set the fire from the last time and we don't see that there's gonna be any results. The mayor's going around the fire, but he doesn't say anything, he doesn't do anything, but it's obvious that our mayor, ladies and gentlemen, is silently supporting such chaos and thus doing harm to the health of our fellow citizens. Hundreds of thousands of our citizens in the City of Zagreb have been damaged every year, with what is being caused there by the fire in that company. Which is why the City of Zagreb, which holds the HDZ coalition at the state level, does not do something that makes Milan Bandic do something and tries to protect our citizens. Which is why they don't call together citizens in Stenjevac to see what we can do to protect our fellow citizens. You can't go to the old ladies and gentlemen's firehouse and say you did everything because you didn't do anything. The Mayor of the City of Zagreb left his fellow citizens from Stenjevec at risk and must be aware that he is also responsible for the failure, state and city level, when the issue of the CIOS fire is 4 times in the last 4 years. In order to prove the opposite and to do something else, I call on the Mayor of Zagreb to offer the City of Zagreb a million kuna reward for the discovery of the perpetrators, who set the fire on several occasions in the CIA to see who did it, because citizens cannot be hostages of business relations between the city and the private company, they cannot be hostages because of friendship, entrepreneurs and mayors and cannot be hostages because of conflicts of interest groups. We need to put the citizens first, and we need to enable these things to be enlightened. I call on the mayor to take that step, to do everything we can to protect our fellow citizens and how tomorrow and control what's going on there by the competent institutions, and so tomorrow we don't have a fire, which I say, four times happens in the past four years. Well, for example, the mayor could find money in savings related to his private travels or semi-official travels over the past few years. Let him travel a little less to Rome, and let him give more for the transparency of his fellow citizens and for the protection of his fellow citizens. I call on him to do so, the SDP is very clear there and I tell the citizens that never again after this week will it occur to anyone that the SDP of the city of Zagreb suspects that Milan Bandic branch is 365 parties. We will be very clear and direct in calling for irregularities and all that the citizens of the city of Zagreb deserve from the SDP and nothing to do with this untransparent behaviour of the mayor and private entrepreneurs of the SDP city of Zagreb and SDP will have anything to do with it but we must be clear, articulated, firm and determined opposition in the city of Zagreb. And tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, if we need to spend every day together with citizens in Stenjevac looking for answers to the questions we are looking for as citizens of the city of Zagreb. Let's move, Mayor, offer this award to show people that personal, familiarity, friendship, business interests mean less to you than the interests of the citizens of the city of Zagreb. The citizens of the city of Zagreb must be first and once again say, as of this week they will never think of anyone again to say that the SDP of the city of Zagreb is the branch of the party Milan Bandic 365. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78020	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.08 HOURS]] Thank you very much. We'll continue at 13.00 hours. Let me remind you, my colleague, there's a 1:30 vote. Thank you very much. It's 12.09 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78021	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] The presentation on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleague. In mid-January of this year, the European Commission approved the issue of state guarantees for the Uljanik loan to the group. To clarify, for those who do not know, the Uljannik Group is also the Uljannik shipyard, but also the 3 May shipyard of 96m euros. However, by issuing these guarantees for credit, the problems of the Oilies and the problems of the Uljannik shipyard have not been solved on May 3rd. The issue of these guarantees is only the beginning of a problem solution which, if it is not solved in a positive way, could mean the economic downturn of the Primorje-Gorski and Istria County. These guarantees are not given indefinitely. These guarantees are linked to the deadline, which is the deadline for the development of a restructuring plan which must be resolved within 6 months. In the 6 months since mid-January, so by mid-July this year, Uljanik must prepare a restructuring plan to be presented to the European Commission whose approval of the plan should be obtained in order to restructure the Uljaniks and on 3 May could be implemented. At this point neither we MPs nor the citizens of Istria nor Rijeka, but what's most important, nor the workers know what's going on with the restructuring plan. We don't know what stage it is, how the preparations are going to go, and we don't know what the components of that restructuring plan will be. However, we do know some things. What we do know is that there are problems with the payment of cooperatives again, that there are problems with paying salaries to employees in these cooperatives, and what we do know is that there is a plan that includes the layoff of a large number of employees in Pula and Rijeka, i.e. the employees of the Oilies and 3 May. Unfortunately, what we do not know is how the administration and government plan to protect these workers. There's a lot of strangers in this whole process. There's a lot that's hidden from the eyes of the public. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be. But yet I think there is also a need for citizens, for workers to be told what is going on, in which direction is the restructuring plan, in which the requirements to be addressed to the European Commission are heading. All of us in Istrian politics are aware that there are problems in the work of Uljanik and 3 May. I think there's a consensus between us that this is a problem that needs to be solved at this time and with a certain state intervention. I am free to say that apart from us in politics and citizens, workers also know that the problem of restructuring will not be easy to find or that it will not be easy to find a solution. We know that this solution will be difficult, but what we cannot accept is that all the weight of this solution is borne by workers or that the only part of the restructuring is the layoff of 1,000 or more workers. That's not the answer. The solution must be comprehensive, it must protect shipbuilding in Pula and Rijeka, it must find new technologies, new knowledge, new investments to keep the economic branch. We therefore ask that, within the shortest possible time limit, the public in which the restructuring project is going, which is working on a restructuring plan, whether we have positive answers from the European Commission, but also asking whether this restructuring will pass and what the Government intends to do in case it does not pass. The problem is too big to let us not have a plan b in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78023	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78024	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In my discussion, I will talk about the availability of healthcare in those parts of Croatia where there are no clinical hospitals. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if you've met but a number of medicines to treat cancer patients in the new list of HZZOs are marked with KL. Why does it matter? Because KL marking means that these medicines can be given to patients only in clinical hospitals, i.e. exclusively in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek or Split. And respected colleagues and colleagues of the sick are elsewhere. There are also sick in Slavonski Brod and in Varazdin and Dubrovnik and Pula. They were brought into an unequal position by this decision of the HZZO. But if it wasn't just my words, I'd show you a quote from the president of the International Oncology Society that he wrote to HZZO. The HZZO decision will limit the significant scope and possibility of oncological treatment in places such as Pula, Varazdin or Sibenik. As a result, CL-labelled medicinal products are in a number of therapeutic protocols. Dear colleagues and colleagues, which means I'll do it again. Minor citizens have been brought in an unequal, unfavourable position. People from smaller backgrounds, regardless of hospital conditions in their cities, will not be able to take them there. Not because doctors in their area in Pula or Varazdin or Čakovec, or so on, do not want, cannot or do not know how to give these medicines but only because the HZZO decided by political decision that these medicines should only be available in clinical hospitals. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are building a new general hospital in Pula. In its construction they invested both the city and the county but also the state. As part of this new general hospital, a large day hospital is being built. For who? For what? When this daily hospital, in view of the HZZO decision, will not be able to give those medicines for which it was built. Who do we bring doctors to and pay for them in these smaller environments when after that they can't administer medicines that mean life to citizens? Imagine your respected colleagues and colleagues what it's like to be in the middle of the tourist season, because cancer doesn't matter whether it's summer or winter, it's coming, what it's like when during the tourist season, in the late stage of cancer you have to travel from Pula to Rijeka and at +35 degrees you wait half an hour in a column in front of Ucka tunnel? Why? Because HZZO said you can't get the medicine in Pula. The medicine for which it is studied whether it will be possible to start using the medicine carried out at Pula General Hospital. By yesterday, Pula General Hospital had administered this drug, and today it can't. Why? Because that's what HZO said. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have warned the minister of this, I have referred a parliamentary question to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I look forward to an answer and I ask for support from all of you who come from environments where there are no clinical hospitals, from which patients have to travel, sometimes cross the state border to get to a clinical hospital to join me and to sleep to the Government of the Republic of Croatia with very simple issues and voices why you put citizens in an unequal position, given where they live. And now that we're watching all of this, it was very interesting to listen to Mr. Kujundzic's health minister talk over the weekend about the availability of health care in the Republic of Croatia and problems in the health system. And what's his answer to all the problems? The possibility of increasing health insurance. If we don't know what we're going to do, let's raise our prices. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is not a good way to go. Instead of increasing the price of health insurance, we should consider how health services should be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia under the same or at least similar conditions, regardless of where they live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78026	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78027	We move on to the following, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78028	Thank you very much. We asked colleagues and colleagues for this break to warn us of one big problem that is happening in the city of Zagreb, which is that the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandić decided to take an additional hundred million kunas from the pockets of the citizens of Zagreb in a way that changes parking prices in the city of Zagreb, to change the price of the ZET map in Zagreb and, of course, before the elections itself, it usually lowers so that we get a ticket of half an hour for 4 kunas or the first zone of parking in Zagreb by 6 kuna and now after the election of a year, that prices go double the price and thus shows that it leads to politics and that it makes decisions not in a way to assess what would be good, how to regulate public traffic in the city of Zagreb but rather make decisions regarding whether the elections or not the elections. So I see absolutely no reason to take more than a hundred million kunas a year to the citizens of the city of Zagreb, I see no reason to introduce the 5th parking collection zone in the city of Zagreb that would now cover almost a whole city, I see no logic in the fact that ZET as a public carrier raises that map from 4 to 6 kuna instead of the citizens of the city of Zagreb are stimulated to use public transport in a way that they pay how much they drive, whether one, whether two, whether three stations or maybe more and pay more. All of this has absolutely no logic, even more because of what the mayor of the city of Zagreb supports one quite inefficient administration and ZET and other public enterprises where there could be room for the savings of tens and tens of millions of kuna and eventually all of these are paid by the citizens of the city of Zagreb. So I call on the mayor to consider before gathering these communals, I would say a service, because transportation is something that the city should provide its citizens with, to think about doing regrants of the Holding, to reduce the number of employees, to introduce new technologies that would allow more efficiency in the Holding itself, and to dissipate the citizens of the city of Zagreb from these costs, a hundred million kunas at the annual level, I don't think anyone reasonable can support. And I call on the HDZ here to oppose it in the City Assembly, not to hold Mr. Bandic's lottery in Zagreb because of what Mr. Bandic holds the lottery to Mr. Plenkovic at national level. We can't be guided by politics by you, by you, by me, by the interests of the citizens should be in focus and should be in the first place. One more thing I want to warn here is that tomorrow I expect the mayor of Zagreb to stop privatising Dinam. We are all witnessing these days in Croatia the situation around Dinah, which has been happening around Dinam, what the main players in Dinam have been doing in recent years, where these actors are now. And I think the only reasonable solution to tomorrow's City Assembly would be to stop privatization to Dinam and eventually try to include as many true fans of that joint club, the Croatian club, the ones who cheer for Dinamo to make a fair transition and to get as many people involved in this process as possible. You should not allow the city of Zagreb to do what Mr Zdravko Mamić and the others imagined to do. I think at this point the interest of the citizens of Zagreb, the interest of the Dinamo club which I say is considered by the great majority of Zagreb as the value of the city of Zagreb must be in the first place. And I'm also calling on the mayor to support that point tomorrow and get it over with. It means a very important topic, and I hope that this message will reach all city representatives tomorrow at the City Hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78029	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78030	Let's move on. Now it's my dear colleague Ranko Ostojić's turn, please. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78031	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a serious crisis in the EU right now. The government in Germany is shaking, as the right-wing government in Italy has changed its entire policy regarding migrants, and we are looking at the side and keeping our mouth shut. Unfortunately, I would like to highlight this for the reasons why the Croatian Parliament must talk about this because it is very dangerous what can happen to the Republic of Croatia in these changed circumstances compared to 2015 and 2016 when 682 000 migrants passed through Croatia. Namely, the situation is next. The closing of borders in relation to the individual within the EU leads Croatia to risk being a country of first entry, which implies that those countries that do not have this type of burden, in particular Serbia, BiH, Albania, Montenegro and all those migrants who are presently in their home, who may be in far smaller numbers than they were before, are slowly focusing on Velika Kladude, now opening up military in Sarajevo, are actually preparing to, of course, as before, try to find a way to a better life, in particular in the EU, choosing those countries where they can meet the conditions that they can live normally. What is also true in the Republic of Croatia is a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers, it is already measured in thousands, that is the number that Croatia has with its capacities that are made in accordance with the Schengen standards from Tovarnik to Trilj, as well for vulnerable groups in Kutina, as is the centre in the Dugavas and all that we have at our disposal is simply not the capacity in which normal integration policy could be implemented. We're missing two things. One is an integration policy for those who are asylum seekers at the moment, which will deserve international legal assistance within the Republic of Croatia, but we need to know that there are a large number of those who will only use the procedure to go outside the Republic of Croatia. It is true that there is also an abuse of demand for international protection, but the risk of Croatia is far greater. All those who are currently in BiH, Serbia, Albania and Montenegro and who are moving towards Europe must go where at the end? To that space that's wireless, which means through Croatia. The risk of being a country of first entry into a situation where these people have not fallen, but come from the EU, specifically from Bulgaria and Greece, says that in fact, the scenario we had in 2015. For that, we also need a migration policy that the government has persistently refused to bring. If we don't do this, if we don't prepare ourselves for this situation where I repeat, the complete Europe of France, Italy, Germany, in front of Mrs Angela Merkel is a public call to resign for reasons that can't solve this issue and if we won't talk about it here in the Parliament and prepare for this scenario that looks like it, it's only a matter of days when a certain number of arrivals in Croatian water will eventually happen, and then what are we going to do? Because we have a plan for it? We don't. Do we have a strategy when we want to do that? We can always say that we will defend the state borders, which is quite understandable and monitoring the state border and is what has been ensured since 2013 because it has been a prerequisite for us to join the EU. Three years ago we applied for Schengen, we haven't passed the evaluation yet, and then there's a difficult political battle to become a part of Schengen at all. At this point, I must say that Croatia is not only not ready, but risks a serious situation for anyone who registers in their area in the passing of the founding migrants to risk a risk unless they are granted asylum in one of the EU countries to return the same person back to the Republic of Croatia at that time. At this point and with these relatively small figures we do not know how to deal, we experience the situation that the risk will actually be bigger and bigger and for this reason I call on this Croatian Parliament to talk about it seriously and jointly because when the crisis starts, the situation will not be a bit simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78032	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to talk to you about the alarming state of May 3. Yesterday, a joint thematic session of the Primorje Mountain County Assembly and the city council of Rijeka was held in Rijeka about this alarming situation in 3May and the issue of its survival. From that session, it was sent a clear, strong political message, without any party signs, supporting efforts to save production in 3maj and to save 1700 people as many as are currently employed in the Rijeka-based region of the Group. The case of fate or irony wished that yesterday's session was just the day, when a privatisation contract was signed before 5 June 2013, which made the Rijeka Shipyard an integral part of the Group's Oily Way. It was a rescue for 3 May, however, at the moment this relationship is one weight, which is a bit, but certainly, unless anything is being pulled to 3 May towards doom. The session was held in moments, while a restructuring programme is still being developed in the resolution ministries, which was delivered from Pula to the ministry, which weighs approximately 600m euros, but has not yet ended in the EC. At the same time, the key issue remained unanswered because the joint thematic session was not attended by either the economy minister, nor the finance minister, nor the group's leaders, so that the question of where it got stuck with the document, when it would be passed, when it would be addressed to the European Commission, we did not get an answer, which shows only the irresponsible demeaning relationship between the leaders of the economy ministry, the finance ministry towards 1700 employees on 3 May. 1700 people were recently paid in May 3rd, paid for selling shares of Viktor Lenca, received 20 million kuna. However, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens who are watching this, on May 3rd cannot complete two new constructions worth 30m euros because there is no such money. Therefore, it is clear that the County Assembly, that the Rijeka City Councilors, after a four-hour debate yesterday, shared undivided unanimous and unreserved support in their efforts to ensure the long-term viability and continued operation of the shipyard in Rijeka, which has strategic significance not only for Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County, but also for Croatia as a whole. Since it is a very complex and cross-border problem, the group's Uljanik, county and Rijeka city councilors are seeking and calling on the government to speed up the process of developing and sending the oil restructuring programme to the EC on 3 May so as not to go bankrupt. On May 3rd, he loaned Oily to the group, it could be said that 523 million kuna had been sucked out from May 3rd and those money had to be returned to May 3rd. It is a very suspicious business move which is the subject of the investigation of the competent authorities. It has been said that the government firmly supports efforts to preserve North-Adriatic shipbuilding, but also that it must be held accountable to the state budget. We ask that the government, in accordance with its powers, immediately take whatever it takes to save May 3rd. Ten conclusions were reached unanimously. I'm not gonna read them all, I'm just gonna name the basics. All activities of the economic social council of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County are supported to address the problem of the sustainability of the shipbuilding activity on 3 May, the efforts of union representatives to preserve jobs with regular payouts and to gain once again that the shipbuilding activity is of important strategic interest not only to the city of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County but also to the entire Republic of Croatia. We stress that the Primorje-Gorski County and the city of Rijeka are seen exclusively in the shipbuilding activity through adopted spatial planning documentation at the county city level in Cantrida. It calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assist the adoption and implementation of the Uljanika restructuring programme d.d., in accordance with EC rules. Pula and is required by the management of the company Uljannik... correct fulfilment of all commitments undertaken and repayment of the loan to the shipyard d.d. on 3 May. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A river at the estimated amount, and that's tomorrow. I hope we save May 3rd, 1700 jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78034	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78035	We move on to the next presentation of the position, on behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78036	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Let me join my colleagues who spoke before me, and congratulate our volleyball players and handball players on winning gold at the Mediterranean games, our basketball players at a great match in the World Cup qualifications and, of course, our football players who won that drama, which we probably all watched last night. However, we are now going to what is actually our joy here in the Parliament, and that is, among other things, to talk about current problems in the state. One of the most pressing problems in the country is the pension reform, precisely the fact that we already have a completely unequal treatment of citizens and citizens of Croatia, only on the basis of when they were born. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all who were born after 1962 and who had the accident, to start working at a time when there was only pension savings in Croatia, i.e. payment of contributions, based on intergenerational solidarity, we discriminate and do not give them the right, which citizens older than them have. And that's the 27% allowance right there. I'll remind you in the Croatian Parliament we've been in the past six months. discussed twice the proposed measures that should improve the status of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We discussed the SDP bill, which should have been given to all citizens and citizens of Croatia. HDZ said no. After that, my colleague Hrelja and I, said, OK, if you do not want to change the law, then we give you the opportunity to through authentic interpretation of existing rules, allow all citizens and citizens of Croatia, one treatment and pension under the same conditions. Nor did it work for colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, they said talk to Kate, we're working on it, we'll prepare a proposal to refer him to the procedure. And what did we see? We have seen a proposal for a pension reform that can be summed up in two points. The first point is you'll work longer, the second point is we'll give you rights if you hand over your savings. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what the government has proposed, what Minister Pavic was talking about last week can only be called one, which is blackmail. The blackmail of citizens and citizens of Croatia to give their own, to give what they were working for, to give what they were saving so that maybe someday the state would give them an add-on to 27%. Dear colleagues and colleagues, perhaps the government thinks that because of the world championship, because of the success of our athletes we don't see what's going on, but that's not the case, we see what's going on. We are witnessing this attack on a pension system which unfortunately did not remain alone because, in addition to the attack on the pension system, we also have an attack on the health system. We have a bill on health care that will help the government secure these 27% for pensioners once in the future. And you know why? Because these are the kind of health care laws no one's gonna even live to get a pension. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what is happening is not good. That's bad. We lead Croatia in a terrible direction, lead in further inequality, lead to further divisions in society, lead to people who have worked hard for years from their work barely survive, once they retire they will not be able to do so either. And so we suggest that you withdraw everything that you've released in public for the last few days, withdraw pension reform, withdraw health reform, meet with social partners and refer to the procedure for something that is right. If that's not what you're capable of, then step aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78037	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78038	The next is the SDP representative's club on behalf of which the respected representative, Peja Grbin, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today I'm going to talk about a topic that we from the SDP have often talked about, either here in the assembly, as my colleague Jovanovic did last week, at meetings of local bodies, as we did in Rijeka and Primorje Goran County last week. And it's about the situation in Uljannik and 3May. I believe that we are all familiar with the fact that in 22.1.2018, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Commission has approved a package of guarantees for the restructuring of the Oil and 3May and the Oil Group. However, and I'm sure we all know that, those guarantees didn't give Bianca days, nor did they go indefinitely. The deadline for the development of the restructuring and adoption programme in the government was 6 months. Dear colleagues and colleagues for six months. And that six-month deadline. expires in just a little over 2 weeks, i.e. July 22nd, this year. When the Uljanik Grupa administration presented the basics of the programme in April, they announced that they would expect it to be adopted in early June. That didn't happen. We're in an incredible time pressure today. If for a little more than two weeks. The restructuring plan will not be adopted and referred to the European Commission's approval, we will potentially come into the situation that the Group's Oil Group will have to repay the loans it received on the basis of government guarantees. What's that gonna mean? This will mean the current collapse of the Oil Group, i.e., shipbuilding in Pula and Rijeka. We can't accept that. That is why, given that the situation in Uljanic and Third May, is escalating every day, given that we cannot accept that the only part of the restructuring plan that is being communicated outside is that 1000 1300 or more workers will be fired from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that, as soon as possible, take all actions to adopt the restructuring plan, in order to adopt the restructuring plan, so that this restructuring plan is sustainable, in order to guarantee that the restructuring plan continues in Pula and Rijeka, but we also ask that as far as possible before the public is informed of the actions taken in this matter. Dear counterpart Jovanovic addressed parliamentary questions a few days ago, we repeat them today, we ask for answers and we call on the government not to hide from some 30-day deadlines, because this is a question that neither Pula nor Rijeka can wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78040	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the club of the independents, they will speak, or as independents, and forgive me again, there is a confusion here, in the name of the SDP club, a respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78042	Thank you, Vice President. On this day in 1856, a stormy night full of thunder and lightning was born the genius Nikola Tesla. A genius celebrated by the whole world except for the appearance of a Croat led by the HDZ. A monument of Frana Krsinić, a genius statue from Lumbarda, was set up in a period of communist darkness in Gospić. It is located on the waterfalls of Niagara and Belgrade. He was also in Gospić, but then on February 16, 1992, he was mined. I don't know who did it, but it certainly had to be some diluvial element, a missing link, a transitional shape between a chromaniac and a Neanderthal because putting dynamite under a genius Kršinić monument can only be an idiot. There's an idiot, there's been and there will be. We can't resist that, but what to say about those who, even after 26 years of this monument's been torn down, won't let it go back to where it was. And who won't? Miss HDZ. They built some kind of fountain in the place where the monument was and there are no 26 years of monuments in Gospić. It is poured out at the left-handed art store of the Academy of Fine Arts, should only be transferred and placed, a political decision should be made. Why was that monument even torn down? Well, not because Tesla invented electricity even because Krsinic made a bad monument, but because Tesla was a Serb. And that primitive reason imagine still survives, 26 years after the destruction of the monuments it is still a lady HDZ essential element. I'm listening here to a representative of the SDSS who, speaking of Tesla today, is talking about agricultural land in Gospić, not about the monument being returned. That's right, the SDSS, but that makes sense for both sides, Tesla doesn't, he dies, he can't be a coalition partner, so it doesn't matter that they took down his monument. So that monument waits, what waits, what waits? Waiting for light, waiting for some better time to relight the light that he invented, to light up Gospić, to enlighten the minds of HDZ in Gospić, HDZ in the government, HDZ in the Parliament, but they do not. I'm not surprised. Tesla lights the world and the light doesn't fit HDZ, HDZ likes dark, dense, opaque, medieval darkness because it's easier to steal in the dark and it's easier to blast anything that's advanced, light, anything that's smart, progress, the future. The SDP will remind you of this while it lasts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78043	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78044	In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 249, it is now time to present a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first application is on behalf of SDP's representative, counterpart Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78045	I wanted to introduce my colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SDP Club to something that is happening on Peljesac Peninsula, on Perna in the site of the house, it could be said that in part there is a typical Croatian story. What's this about? It is about building a new ferry port in the length of 220 m on one of the most beautiful moves of the southern side of Peljesac, on a beach in Perna called Pelješki Zlata rat, it belongs to a small place called the Orebic municipality. To make it clear to everyone at once, all Peljescans also know that the ferry port in the center of Orebić is a 50-year-old problem and that a new port must finally be found. As early as 2008, it started to happen, and Pern began to be mentioned as a temporary solution, but nothing was done. So there is no doubt that the ferry port must be moved from the heart of Orebic but now I will tell you why the beautiful beach is in Perna today 2018 and in this way perhaps the wrong place to do so. Do you know what people do there? What do they live on? From tourism. Is there anything else, livestock, no agriculture, no industry, so there is no industry in all of Croatia to be there. So people use the only resources they have, which is the sea, it's the sun and the beautiful shore. It's the source of their income, their existence, that's how children are educated, so they're sent to the cities for studies, and they're hoping they'll come back downstairs. Take away their tourism, in other words, and you took their lives. Did you know that the Peljek-Korčula canal is known in the world frameworks of surfing on board? Did you know that the World Cup was held there for years? There are schools there today, few of them on the Adriatic. You can imagine what this means for local tourism, it means very much but someone is there, decided that the ferry path goes along the surface of the sea which is used for this sporting activity. But it's still a lot more important than that. In the past 10 years in which the state has done nothing about building a new ferry port in Kučište na Perna, young people have founded families, raised loans, built, received incentives from the state, received European funds and today we have about 600 beds in households, several restaurants, hotels, camps and other catering facilities in the immediate vicinity of the planned port. The information that the town of Kušište paid more than 680,000 kuna of tourist fees last year tells you everything. Now, that's typical Croatian business. For 10 years, the state has been doing nothing, allowing young people down to start families, to be in debt in banks, allowing development of tourism infrastructure, allowing construction and now pushing something without considering new circumstances and parameters that have simply changed. Otherwise the construction of a ferry port is planned within the Komodor tourist complex, as far as I know this complex is planned to sell and the only question is who will buy it with a ferry port in the middle of the hotel complex. Does anyone have an interest in diminishing his value and then selling into invaluables, we've already watched those scenarios. It wouldn't be good to understand from this exposure that some young people are holding back development because it wouldn't be true and that's why I have to say next. Plans for a new port exist long ago but in these plans the ferry port has always gone along with a project to build a bypass that will relieve local traffic. Since the alternative positions, Bilani and St. John, people from Peljesac know what I'm talking about, it has given up, perhaps lightly and slightly, with an unconvincing argument but what's important has given up building a new bypass which makes this project crazy and therefore it is justified to ask the question if traffic per 1,000 cars per day in the cave will go between houses, small and narrow streets, so is it someone joking with the locals of the House, Orebić, Vignja and the whole of Pelješac and whose interest? Why did the port project separate itself from the detour construction project? It is also important to know that the ferry port project should be built from EU funds. It will be a typical Croatian story again. Why? So it is not clear how the port administration plans to even report a project for European funds, for a project that has no access road, which is a condition for co-financing. To make things better, there is a merger between Korčula and Pelješac through the bridge and through the tunnel. So it's absurd for a temporary solution to invest 75 million kuna and destroy people's existence. So let me finish, the project of building a new ferry port as imagined, without a bypass and without respecting the new circumstances that happened over the course of 10 years in which the state has done nothing, is not good. The locals are against it, they signed a petition, and they need to be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78046	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78047	Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Sonja Cikotic will speak. So let me say it again, so we'll have a vote at 10.10 then, right, about the addition of the agenda, one point of everything but so we know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78048	The theme of my break today will be public administration reform. Public administration reform is expected by everyone, from citizens to entrepreneurs. I note that the state budget on the salary of state and public officials stands out 21% and that a huge bureaucratic apparatus makes up 17% of total employees in the Republic of Croatia. When you hear this information, someone would really think that we have the most efficient public administration, but that's not the case. And this break will address the impact of a major announced public administration reform and 30 kuna awards or fines. So far, you could hear not only Minister Kusčević but also the prime minister that 2018 will be the year of reforms. But here we are, almost there may be, and we still don't have a national reform plan. The previous one is weak or unfulfilled and has been reported without progress in the public administration segment. Big plans left only big announcements. But let us move on to the effect of the proposed reform that we read from the media that 30 kuna will be a reward and 30 kuna will be a punishment for one who works well, or one who does not work well, and all of these will be evaluated by the citizens. All of this is a hunch of an unprecedented chaos that will be created for 30 kuna. A major reformer for now only in an attempt, the interview lists the project, e-taxes, the Centre for shared services, the quality of public administration. And at the end of the interview, it ends with the effects of the reform. The conclusion is that the redundancies resulting from the implementation of the reform will not take place because here we have a natural outflow. And all of this would not be so sad and tragic that after the Ministry of Administration's MOST mandate, there was no action plan worth 880 million kuna, adopted without any comment from the European Commission, with 20 projects designed to build institutions, depolitise the system, implement digitisation and network data and employees, optimise the number of employees with the building of the measure of work of each job. And all of this wouldn't have been so surprising if we hadn't left you three projects in drawers to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System 20, 21 and 24.4. 2017. In order for you to sign a contract just recently, and for two projects, noting that you have increased the amount by them, to extend the implementation deadline. Increased the amount by around 20 million kuna and extended the implementation deadline by 3 years while the 3-business project is waiting, entrepreneurs are still waiting. But to not be so black or to not go for better there are us who care enough that you can't do as much as you want, enough of us who are stubborn enough not to give up, not to leave and stay. Through our work we will make Croatia better, we will give initiatives and we will do even more, just as we have left you these 20 projects and an action plan for better and more successful Croatia. I'll end up with the words of a woman, I won't let anyone mock my people, and you're just doing it when you're talking about a reform based on natural outflow and 30 kuna fines with an investment of 880 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78049	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78050	Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, Honored colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78051	Thank you very much. I'll talk to my colleagues and colleagues about the transport infrastructure in Dalmatia. I'm going to talk about something that the government is announcing and it's commendable that the government for the Holy Doo will have a session of the government and in Split because the problems are huge and I'm going to list them, but the fact is that we're just listening to promises at these sessions and similar gatherings, for example. Let us remember the promises of many in Knin for the days of the Storm when it is a Sinj Alka, we have promises at that time and now this session. Instead of opening infrastructure projects that have been promised for years, such as the Ciovski Bridge, we still have promises. And this is our experience, in 2009, the Ravca Drvenik road is open, which is a very important road for Vrgorački kraj, zazađe and Hercegovina, part of Herzegovina, and also for islands such as Hvar. The meter hasn't moved since. I wish at that session, it's a wish, we don't listen to the promises we've heard. I'd like to talk about Dalmatian Zagora, talk about where the projects have been promised for years, such as the Imotski roads from Zagvozd. I gave it up as amendments, they weren't accepted. What's with the Cetina circuit on the highway? What about Drnish's compound, Knina? 26,000 people just left the Dalmatian mountain, but what about Kozjak? I hear Kozjak will declare it a strategic project. That's positive, and what about these other projects? What about the exit from Split in the tourist season? What about the Omis bypass where the tunnel was built where there was no end? The question to the government is whether it's enough to just do the PR session and come to the government's meeting for St. John's Day. Dujma, I repeat once again as it comes to Knin for the Storm, to Sinj for Sinjska Alka and similar manifestations, where we only listen to promises. Always the same, always the same projects. Unfortunately to build these projects, the companies wouldn't fail that are very important, now that the tribal of the building is in motion, we have a viaduct that has failed, we have a constructor that has failed and we listen to promises. Who's going to do these projects? Where are those builders, our workers? Are we just going to give Chinese companies jobs? And we destroyed ours because of the promise to build this infrastructure transportable, I'm just talking in Dalmatia that's forgotten, especially the Dalmatian Zagora. Just remember them, now for St. John's Day. Duju, there will be promises, but there will be no opening of those projects they've been repeating for years. I repeat, Ravca-Drvenik, here is Mayor Vrgorca, he knows when it was promised and how long the project documentation has come that it is finished. No one moves their fingers. Simply before the election came and it opened up, he asked today a parliamentary question, the Ciovski Bridge in the tourist season, he promised by 1.7 every year that it would be open, however no one opens, except that at this session we will listen to the same repetitions, the same infrastructure projects as in transport. Once again I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the mayor of Split, who will be at that session to vote, I will ask the Committee for Transport, to become strategic projects of the survival of the Dalmatian Zagora, the people of Dalmatia and a merger towards Knin and Drniš on the highway, Drniš, Knin, Sinj, Imotski and of course this Ravca – Drvenik road that is important for the islands, mainly Hvar, Vrgorački end and our Hercegovina, which is literally evicted and what remains is simply used at a time when they need votes and as voters. We don't fight for these people to stay in those areas. Prime Minister, declare these projects strategic projects and start working, open promised projects, not year by year to promise, make false promises and false hope to the people who emigrate from these parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78052	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78053	The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most and Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78054	Thank you very much. About the affair... I spoke in the Croatian Parliament, even called the thematic session of the Committee on Transport, but this false topic and big affair is constantly trying to hide under the carpet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, yesterday I read that here, Secretary-General Oleg Butkovic is calling a crisis meeting of all the participants who tried to cover this up. He decided to determine what was going on at the strategically important Zadar port. It is really worth listening to the voice of the people, because it is because of them and these topics that I am in the Croatian Parliament. How did it all start? Local members, county congregations and members of the city council in Zadar, no one wanted to hear. They warned of concrete, suspicious decisions related to the concession, which the port in, at the port in which a billion and a half euros were invested. Or a billion and a half kuna is given for a million and 600 kn per month or at 20 years 30 million kn. It is always necessary to listen to those who do not potentiate stories because of their interest. In the Parliament, I proposed a thematic session on Gaženica on the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, the meeting was held by the Mayor of Zadar and the head of the port administration who claimed that the ratio of 80% to the concessionary and 20% to the Port Administration of Zadar was quite fine. In a very ugly way, they dealt with those who claim it was simply not a good bill and gave the Turkish company a concession for only 32 million kuna at 20 years. Of course, at the meeting of Minister Oleg Butkovic there was no, the session was on the Big Thursday and symbolically washed the hands of the pilate with no presence. There were no authors of a study by the University of Rijeka Naval College on the basis of which the supposed concession of the day. There was no mention of a study by a French company that was paid to say that 50-50% took a minimum 50% to be in the state, everything would remain a dead letter on paper. No one would deal with this case, no one would even read the decision of the local powers how and under what conditions give the port that cost taxpayers more than the Pelješki bridge. They gave the port a concession as if... for a lie in the middle of the sea by these criteria and those rules, they dropped to a local level such a significant strategic port. For those of you who do not know how important Luka Gaženica is, I remind you that this is a port with access road from Zadar 2 node, which is being tried by former Minister Bozidar Kalmeti, Secretary of State Zdravko Livaković and the team from HAC. The 17km access road cost us 600 million kuna and the port a billion and a half. A building, links, parking, a catering facility was built, and all of this is given to the Turkish owner in a concession, even a wi-fi line. Let us consider fellow MPs how much the price of silence is, what is the price of all the problems under the carpet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78055	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78056	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78057	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will talk about Slavonia, I will talk about the fact that Slavonia County records unemployment and emigration, low economic activity with growing emphasis on agricultural activity, all through the announcement of a new agrarian reform. The Law on the Family Agricultural Economy and the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber will provide new burdens to Croatian farmers. In addition, imports of agricultural products are on the rise, but ruling, they say, are doing everything exactly for Slavonia and Baranja. They even have a project. How did the project of Slavonia and Baranja begin? The story of the project goes back to the 2016 parliamentary elections when we could hear that HDZ will have an operational programme for Slavonia and that of 10.7 billion euros, a total of 2 and a half billion euros will be allocated to Slavonia for 5 counties: Vukovar-Srijemska, Požeko-Slavonska, Osijek-Baranja, Virovitski-Podravska and Brod-Posaviska. I warned then, in 2016, clearly and unequivocally about this pre-election scam. I warned that the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds had reached that amount, with a flat-rate share of 10.7 billion with 20 counties, which would mean that 500m euros per county were secured, which means that all counties would receive the same money. Slavonia wouldn't have anything to worry about. But the pre-election promise, pre-election fog for the citizens, was released. And today we have a PR balloon with another exception. The Slavonia project, Baranja, received another addition, Western Srijem. Without any document to which this particular project is intended, what are its priorities, what time-limit and what measures will certain projects be achieved? There's no plan. But we are witnessing, the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds are running a certain table with agreed projects, with investments in 5 Slavonian counties. In this table, we find the absurd, we find projects that started in 2014, 2015, 2016, when Ministers Jakovina, Minister Greek and Minister Maras issued these calls, but they are in the HDZ Table in their PR balloon, so-called. Project Slavonia. But what is important and not to go undetected is the fact that this area of 5 counties does not have any additional points in applying for the competition, that there is not a single selection criterion, which just favors the area, and there are no competitions that only Slavons can call. Moreover, we are witnessing, as this government announced this project, the only thing that we have happened is that we can see the abolition of regional schools in rural areas, the abolition of health services, the abolition of transport lines and the rise in prices. There are measures and there are ways that can and must help this area, through policies that would be the bearers of economic development, which would attract investors and secure jobs, but the government stopped on PR balloons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78058	I thank my esteemed colleague Sonja Cikotic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78059	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, since today is the World Day of Freedom of Media, and also here in Parliament, we had a thematic session of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy precisely on the media's impact on the fight against corruption, I think it's important to talk about an important topic. Many speakers pointed out this in their discussions that we do not know the real media owners in Croatia and that this is one of the key problems and that mostly journalists who work in the media have, I would say some almost car censorship or even are exposed, so if they open certain topics, they are exposed, they are not in a good position in their media houses, and I also think that you are aware that when we open up some issues, when we hit certain stakeholders, then either our political groups to which we belong or we ourselves do not have a very good treatment in certain media, so I have also applied for discussion and said that the treatment of MOST in the media has changed significantly after the amendment of the Law on HRT which we are lawyers and public notebooks broke 35 million kuna out of their pockets annually. You are all aware that one law firm owns one of the most important media houses in the Republic of Croatia. I also noticed that certain portals owned by certain teleoperators after our criticisms that were here in the assembly have changed their relationship to the Most. There was also talk about fake news as a new trend, and here it is interesting today, since our former colleague Ivan Vrdoljak published a status for exactly one year in which he accused me of spreading news about the HDZ coalition and the HNS. In the end, it turns out it wasn't fake news, but here, we now have it here as a pure reality. In that debate I pointed out as very important, the fact that last Friday we here in the Parliament had a debate on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, and the amendment of the Law to the procedure was just sent to the Most. I thought and this debate was supposed to and was tempered for the afternoon, but here, as is the case these days, the points were very quickly discussed and the debate on our law was before the vote itself. So it was expected to be a public focus. We have sought through these amendments to the Law public publication of registers of real owners of companies, therefore both the media and everything else. However, no media has published anything about this parliamentary debate. That bill should be at the polls, there's no vote tomorrow, so it won't be tomorrow, but in due course. However, no one seems to be interested in this important subject. Only the Nova TV has given some space to this Law, and it is in favour of the media, or for the benefit of researchers. We know that in the Republic of Croatia, that virtually all major affairs have been discovered by the involvement of researchers, media involvement, and that only then did our judiciary which we here often complain about in the assembly begin to investigate these particular cases. Of course, often without that final epilogue, which, of course, is a big problem. So right now, our Registry is closed to the public and to the press. The legal provisions on the availability of data from the Register are so rigidly written that they prevent even journalists from coming to them and we are now in line with this Directive that the Register is made publicly available we have made this proposal and what is interesting is that we will have to go in this direction eventually, and we want to and we want to make it possible for the Republic of Croatia to be one of the EU leaders to make this Registry publicly available, which will certainly reduce the conflict of interest, which will ultimately reduce corruption. You are all aware that behind every company, trust or other legal person stands a natural person, a man who has a crucial influence, benefits from the action of that legal person and that chain and a set of legal persons is so complicated and long that it is often difficult to identify the real owner and we are just seeking your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78060	I thank my esteemed colleague, never Grumoji.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78061	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78062	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on November 17th 2016, the first one was held, I will say, a moved cabinet session in the city of Vukovar. At that time, the prime minister, current Prime Minister Plenkovic said he was sending a message of respect to all defenders, families, missing. In that message was also one of the key decisions expected by everyone in the city, which is a decision on appearance, a draft law that should declare the city of Vukovar a place of special pite. It's been a year and a half since November. We haven't seen the draft text yet. We haven't seen the solution yet. What are we the only ones who live there, what are we looking at? We're still looking at panels that are beautiful, we don't know what to look for in that pie. We should ask that we remain neutral just as we should be born neutral, as it should appear to be national neutral, should be neutral, and according to everything that's been happening in the city of Vukovar, we should allow time to solve something that this government, with the announcement it has made, never starts. I wonder who they're afraid of. What's the problem with solving, solving panels? What would it look like to you colleagues and colleagues, at the entrance to the Parliament if the board were beautiful and it did not show that it was the Parliament, the Croatian Parliament? How would it look if the government building of the Republic of Croatia also had a beautiful record? Would it be a message to someone who comes from outside, from any other area that we're ashamed to admit that we live in the Republic, that our institutions want records and I'm asking this government to finally give an answer whether I want them to be Cyrillic or not? Does Vukovar want to be a place of special pie, or is everyone satisfied? Or was it just a message to bring down Milanovic's government so when the government takes over to leave the status quo? I'm afraid Vukovar has just been left where he is, in one status quo, neither help nor word nor bring. What about the commission? The commission was founded, it was tasked to bring the draft by the end of the first quarter, according to what I see and the statements and the Minister of the Bear, it seems to have ended, some of the issues have appeared in the e-consultation, the draft still does not exist. It should be coordinated, so it's over, we can say now two markings, injuries, it was only meant to be aligned with some ministry, it was said last year. What ministry is it that is holding back the implementation of this law? Who is this minister or minister in the government who doesn't agree with the draft law that went to the government's procedure as such? Who's going to answer that question? Will Bacic, in the end, say that it is a question that is bothering him, in his territory of Croatia, or is it a question that bothers us, which we live there, both me and the citizens, it is also a shame that we cannot finally know which country we live in. I look forward to every government session that goes somewhere else. It was Vukovar, Knin, Osijek, Split, billions are promising, and I'm just asking you to do some of it, finally make that law, let it go in the process, or are you afraid of most of it? Not to mention maybe things at the port, a marina in Vukovar, which was said, the minister said, by the end of 2017, now the process of selecting the workers in 2018 has been a long time since 2016. What remains in Osijek since the promise? So you didn't rule the mosquitoes either. Minister Kujundzic said that environmental protection will finally solve the mosquito problem in Osijek, go there, now hold a session of the government, and then let the Prime Minister smile now, so let's say that they just came to Osijek when there is less danger than mosquitoes, last year they were, this year they weren't. I'm afraid, it's not just a danger from mosquitoes, it's a danger from a government like this who can't, she doesn't know, she's incapable of making a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78063	We're continuing to take a stand on behalf of the club. On behalf of the club MOST independent lists, counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78064	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. Following yesterday's communication published by the Index, we came up with a follow-up. Today on the Index, a new series of e-mails that explains the selection of a strategic consultant at Agrokor. And when you look at it a little bit, it's clear that the same team that chose the strategic advisor is the same team that was chosen. It was Dalićka's hot mail guys, they were the ones who chose Alix Partners, and the Alix Partners paid them back for the favor he got and he chose them. And it's clear from this that all of this happened in the time that was prepared before Ramljak actually took over the reins in Agrokor. When you look at only the indicators around the amount, you have a comparison of the offered advisor and what's visible, okay, 3 if you have chosen to be acceptable it's okay. One's off because you can't show up, there's... Restrictions, but the two chosen are more expensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And... and Alix, both of them, provided all that was sought. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However... only 600 thousand euros a month, it seems there was no room for subcontractors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In those 2,000 euros per day as they demand compensation for their experts where they offer a team of 15, 16 people, those they should choose could not be found. It was easier to find an offer than Alix offering 10 people, which offers a million euros, which offers 5,000 euros per day, per man to collect. And most tragically, there was a comparison with Alvarez who was mocked by the same ones who made fun of him, and he asked 650 thousand euros a month for his service. It seems the goal was to drive Alvarez away and name someone who was acceptable. So Dalićka's hot mail team became Alix's local branch. But of course there is no end, because what we should say when we look at this team, we look at the people who are inside, then we come to another sadder fact, and that is that the Deputy Prime Minister, during the presentation of his views on the Committee on the Economy, has deceived parliamentary representatives, members of the board, and the Croatian public, when she said that her relationship with Mr. Šavoric was nothing. It seems that she doesn't recognize an e-mail connection as something that's something but nothing. The same gentleman appears throughout her correspondence, friends, they seem to have the same interesting subject, which is Agrokor. And on the next Committee on Economy and I hope it will be very soon, I will ask for an answer to explain this and hope that it comes with an answer that she will interpret that we do not have a series of questions again in... styles that bomb the Croatian public in turn, seeking to transfer these obvious evidence to the Most. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's exactly what I'm looking for. Whoever is producing these questions should come and alone, ask them, do not need to look around, do not need to open the thesis, can get all the answers but we are dealing with what is in reality, which is the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister, the responsibility of the prime minister and some members who have allowed people to get together this interestingly, to draw funds to see us choose a much more expensive option for Agrokor, choose a much more expensive option and for the citizens of Agrokor looking only their own benefit. I think we're getting into a series of these e-mails, because maybe we were laughing like that when we said that the National at Karamark was lucky, so it's not a daily list, but this seems to have become a daily theme, daily e-mails.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78065	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78066	Mr. Grmoya, thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78067	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we saw we ended this meeting in the government. There was one general expectation of both the public and the media and I trust us all here in the assembly that the conclusion of that meeting would be that Martina Dalic was leaving. However, the conclusion is that talks will continue in three days. And here is no longer a question, I would say some of the government's determination and the prime minister's determination to make the right move, here is a matter of elemental decency for citizens and voters. In every normal country after what came out as Deputy Prime Minister, if not the entire government itself, the prime minister would resign, and we have the situation that talks will continue again in three days, that nothing has been decided and we practically have one situation that we will probably be waiting again for the Commission to prevent conflicts of interest that will say that Martina Dalic was giving expert advice to this... group, that she was not making any proposals, but was just involved in a correspondence similar to that of Zdravko Maric. So I call here all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I call on the entire opposition, but also representatives of the ruling majority to stand together against such corruption in the highest institutions of the Republic of Croatia where we can practically talk about a joint criminal enterprise aimed at extracting money on the collapse of Agrokor. Each of us believe, here wants the deal to work, each of us wanted anything bad to happen to the Croatian economy, but apparently some took advantage of the opportunity, these e-mails, the other set of e-mails that came out on the Index shows that the same people actually chose themselves, they chose Alix partners, and then the Alix partners chose their companies, that's what's unacceptable. And now the spins appear like who asked for experts. Well, I guess we all ask for experts. That experts analyze the financial situation in Agrokor. But what's the real question, who was in charge of this group, who joined the group by lawyer Šavoric, who was the group that needed to analyze the situation in the concert just before the meeting with Ivica Todorovic into a group that wrote Lex Agrokor? And I have to say that although I didn't know about these details, I was very pleased that a man who had nothing to do with the Most, he had a press release from the Ethics Bank with the Living Wall and the SNAGA about the establishment of an ethical bank in Croatia, so these people are not MOST's, they may even be closer to the Living Wall or any other political option, but we proposed them just to control the process. And what turned out to be what we didn't even know about? That after our release from the government in May the text management offers to the ethical bank to be subcontractors and thank God those people refused. Imagine if they'd accepted, imagine if they'd accepted, then they'd say what you're saying, so you suggested those people and they took advantage. But here is the responsibility only of Martine Dalic who did not allow these people to sign any statement of confidentiality, which did not tell these people here you have put yourself at your disposal in this difficult situation where we need to make decisions quickly, you cannot be involved in this process that is coming, your companies cannot be engaged. And if anyone were to blame Martini Dalic for this correspondence with these people about writing the law, they probably wouldn't. Because these people didn't take advantage later, they didn't participate in the process, but we, here, they just did, their companies were engaged, and they just had all the privileged information, and that's what's controversial, they're being taken out, some say, and all the ministers are consulting experts. Yeah, but then it can't happen that this expert is later hired after our release from the government to be a brief management engaged as a subcontractor. That can't happen. And that's what's controversial. No one here is against consulting experts to analyze the situation in Agrokor, but we see what happened. We will now refer to the procedure of re-amending the decision to set up a parliamentary investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78068	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78069	The second is the Club of Representatives of the Most and esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78070	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me start with a quote today's explanation of the break I asked for on behalf of the MOST club. I quote: "The motion for opposition to Vice President Dalic's impeachment, which I read, is an unserious article, and I did not find in it the arguments and valid reasons necessary to bring down the vice president.", finished quote. So, colleagues and colleagues, about a month ago, spoke our fellow representative and chief of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected Mr Branko Bačić. I remember well how the rulings at the time defied the arguments of the opposition. Most of the reasons for the shift now already former Deputy Prime Minister Ms. Martina Dalic, they did not even read and all we listened to was tossing political mud on all of us from the parliamentary opposition that we properly pointed to Mrs. Dalic's mistakes and the need for her unsustainable impeachment. Eventually, when they scraped up such a majority to support Mrs. Dalic, they triumphantly spoke of their great victory and another defeat of the opposition. This is a good place to quote the famous ancient king of Pir who, after one victory over the Roman army, said his anthological sentence: “One more such victory and we are lost. ” So much for winning and losing. And what will this government be remembered for? Probably according to the anthological statement of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, everything will be fine. Dear gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, nothing is good. Croatia and its citizens face the biggest challenges in the short history of our country since the Homeland War. The economic and political system is crying out for radical changes, and by mass emigrating states, it loses its substance. Under such circumstances, each government is expected to make bold and courageous decisions. And what do we have? We have a government that's held her breath in the hope that there won't be another e-mail or text message leaked to the public. We have a government that fears its own shadow and that targets all its energy to preserve its chairs. Instead of discussing and passing reform laws in this high house, we as well as the entire Croatian public are witnessing desperate efforts to get all the marifettelucs in Agrokor and elsewhere mixed under the carpet. Really, colleagues, you're acting like a real Borg. A collective who doesn't think, doesn't ask, doesn't question, and only one man's will matters. I'm asking you gentlemen to rule as long as that's the case? Time's up. Stabilization failed. The government's starting to shower. Key reactors such as demographics and economies are now vacant. It was ruled by apathy and hopelessness, and the government shows complete hopelessness. Even the people don't trust you anymore, look at the polls. 3/4 of our citizens think the state is going in the wrong direction. Unfortunately, we can't see that's going to change. You've all become hostages of the bad decisions of a few people and associated stakeholders. All you have left is to repeat stability, stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78071	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, the next one will speak for Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78072	Thank you very much. It is my duty to speak with this speaker, not many of us, but to talk about the problem of health services in Split-Dalmatia County within the home of health. Split-Dalmatia County is the largest county, recently visited by the prime minister with numerous promised projects that were promised eight years ago and even some twelve years ago, we only received promises. At this point we have a problem in the Cetina region that has a large population, so the population is larger than Licko-Sen County, we are left without a radiologist. Otherwise, the problem in the Cetitian region was huge, mainly for women for UZV breasts who waited six months to enroll, and if they were enrolled there would be huge rows, so that numerous women had no opportunity to even examine themselves, and some even while they had been examined and died, they were late discovered by a tumor. This is one of the huge problems, we need to know that the state decentralizes huge money for these areas of health care, but the fact is that counties are bad water, health homes are targeted, they are being destroyed for reasons that these people need to be examined for health reasons are going to privates. But people in these areas don't have money, they don't even have transportation secured from many parts of these border areas, they don't have secure public transport, they're older populations, they're places to move from. So once again with this place to hear in the Government and Ministry of Health and Prime Minister, where it points to money, when it comes to Split's Dalmatian County and how money is spent. We have a diagnostic device in the labs from time 2 of St. The war before even. Even that part is bad, however, the key problem is that we no longer have radiologists, which target these people with poor wages to go and only to be comfortable with privates, to go to privates, so that this primary health care, diagnostic health care is simply at never lower levels. These health services, in these areas, are never lower. It's my duty to warn you and talk about it. And I am saddened that the state decentralises resources for homes of health, county, in this case Split Dalmatian County in a way where these directors and administrative councils of health homes have more of their own ear and clerks than they have a doctor. This has become the meaning of the cells of party listeners, where fostering them simply cannot rule or maintain power in these areas, as many employees as possible, are their voters and their lobbyists. And once again home to health of the Split Dalmatian County, threatened, health services are catastrophic primarily to patients. I will speak in public about it in person, if it is necessary for the alka, Sinjska when, if necessary, the women will say so in that part, that they will protest for the Sinj alka, because they all come only for the Sinj alka, take pictures and show themselves that they love the area, the Cetin area, the Split Dalmatian County, how they love the Dalmatian Zagora, which is untrue. And in the end, I would just say that the numerous projects that the Prime Minister said, which essentially led to the final government in Split, are projects that have been promised five, six times, the same with the conclusions, so the military Dračevac in Split in 2009, the Prime Minister Sanader gave the city, Mayor Kurept, that military one, however, again a month ago, to the current mayor, Mr Krstulovic, to the military. 15 years ago, they had contracts to finish that part, so they'd give it to the military, but the same thing happens with a flat wood and other numerous projects where I open up so far at 10 angles. We don't need a PR and a detachment from other topics, we need real life. Obviously the diameter of Plenkovic, we in parliament, under these lights, they do not feel, we have lost touch, not all of course, those who are in the field, see it, touch with reality. Not everything the PR can run. He made 50 conclusions worth 2 billion kn, which have been repeated 10 times in the last 20 years through government conclusions. It's unserious, and we'll be against it. And once again for the home of health to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78073	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78074	We are now going to the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78075	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As far as waste management is concerned in Croatia is almost nothing new, we just have indications of public calls for the financing of the necessary infrastructure that should have actually happened before last summer, so 2017, and as we know, we have already passed half of 2018. So there is still no necessary acceleration of the pace to achieve the objectives. The largest cities of Croatia Zagreb and Split continue to trample with traditional garbage access, especially Split, which has brought its Waste Management Plan without any locational established sortery and composts, about the Centres for reuse that I do not even speak. For such a plan, the prior consent of the competent authority to confirm that the draft plan is in line with the provisions of the Sustainable Management Act, the regulations adopted under that law and the plan of the Republic of Croatia. Easily written, but completely untrue without any sortery and composts there is no recycling, there is no possibility of achieving the goals for which we have committed ourselves. Hiding behind ignorance is no longer allowed or possible. It is about the irresponsibility and barbarism of the administration of this, but also of all others who have issued previous consent to waste management plans these months, which do not foresee turning from garbage to resource access to this great problem of today. But they are not without responsibility, nor are council members of local self-government units, nor are they competent ministers. So do we really think or do you think that foames will not arrive, punishments for continuing care that is demonstrated by such an approach and, consequently, fail to achieve the recycling goals that we have committed to both by accession and by law? I ask from this place, will the people who sign these documents be held accountable, the responsibility to release through the procedure waste management plans that lack the basic elements of management by today's waste? The European Parliament, on the other hand, is making laws for increasingly ambitious waste recycling targets, so that with 50% long-defined by 2020, we are now talking about 60% and 70% for packaging by 2030, and we are still planning infrastructure in the form of a mechanical-biological processing centre, garbage that can't achieve this. Why do neither Split nor Zagreb use the intervention funds provided for by the state plan to reduce the postponement? These are the sorters of gentlemen without whom no vessels or green islands will help, without which 10% recycling will never cross. The sortery immediately and close to the cities where separately collected recycling waste enters, and raw material comes out for the circular economy to which we are obliged to concentrate to the maximum extent, if we have any responsibility and concern for future generations. This raw material can be sold and covered by the costs of separate collection while this persistent garbage approach converts into fuel at a high cost to the burden of citizens. I remind you that burning waste regardless of the form of recycling is far worse in terms of energy use, resources, the environment and the economy. There is also anticipation of the burning of recycled waste, which is also coming to us, but obviously there is no concern here. If responsibility and concern are not present, what can we conclude when ignorance can no longer be an excuse? That carelessness, irresponsibility, commotion, savagery or perhaps clientelism and crime is the dominant property of many whose forms should, rather than necessarily, bring about a change. And this would mean that citizens from both Split and Zagreb are actually sentenced from all over Croatia to life in resource-inefficient cities where instead of hundreds of green jobs and the return of raw materials to the economic system, they will be the treatment of garbage and multiple increases in waste costs, which is due to expensive processing, due to expected foames. Sad or true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78076	And lastly, excuse me, we have 2 more, next will be the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, on behalf of which will speak a respected representative of Ines Strenja Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78077	Thank you. I am forced to remind again of the situation that has been repeated when Minister Kujundzic tries to influence the fate power in Croatia. We all remember when he addressed the Minister of Justice, Mr Bošnjakovic and with a letter from several months ago, entitled "Parical Procedures for the payment of salaries for overtime and when he asked the minister to engage himself in the unification of court practice because he wants to point out different practices of county courts, based on the same factual circumstances, which bring completely conflicting judgments, and take different legal considerations on the same material law. What's this about? So for years, doctors and nurses have been suspended, for the proper accounting of overtime, which is why if all the charges are accepted, but apparently one large part is accepted and the situation is possible to generate costs of more than a billion kuna. So, at that time in the winter, Minister Kujundzic tried to ask Mr. Bosnjakovic, who is also the minister of the second resort he is sitting with in the government, which he sent a memo, which was by no chance meant to appear in public, a letter requesting his influence on the judicial authority. And he says, we want to point out the necessity of unifying court practice. It is amazing that, in fact, the one who wrote this, probably also advised Minister Kujundzic, I think he was badly advised, because then the lawyer would probably know, and what he said and wrote by the former Supreme Court president and judge, Ivica Crnic, who says in the case of differences in legal views, judicial practice is evened out at the hearings of the judicial departments and decisions of the Supreme Court. But it's not mine to say as a doctor again. It wouldn't matter if it hadn't happened again two weeks ago. Two weeks ago. The minister again referred to the directors of hospitals, the government's opinion, his opinion as minister, but the accompanying letter and the opinion of a legal expert, which he tells them, the opinion in question can be used in further communication with the courts, with the related court proceedings in place. And he's doing the same thing again. I have here something that is on the web pages and the Croatian Medical Union, which first noticed the situation, that it is again trying to influence the judicial authority, because in the accompanying letter of Minister Kujundzic, the opinion of a legal expert. Well then says, in fact, that judge is, that Mr. Gotovac said his opinion as a legal expert. The medical union says it is perfectly acceptable and understandable that the government does not refer exclusively to the problem of overtime and, for its part, asks for the opinion of experts, but Mr. Gotovina, whose opinion forms an integral part of the letter by Minister Kujundzic, in his report, does not refer exclusively to the problem of overtime, but first, incorrectly and unprofessionally dissuasively, there are all the authorised judicial experts, who have trained every doctor and nurse for how many hours it has not been paid, and then allows themselves, at points, further points allow judges, as well as how to do during the trial. Therefore, since Mr. Gotovina's expert opinion is a contribution to the letter of Mr. Minister and, as such, represents the official position of the government, such a addressed opinion is a classic example of the influence of politics on the judiciary, which is unacceptable, and in the lawfulness of such an assessment will be given by the competent institutions, which will also be taken by the Croatian Medical Union. So, at a time when doctors leave the country every day, and the remaining doctors and nurses barely support the efforts of a vast number of overtime hours to maintain a health system, this way of resolving disputes will surely lead to a huge dissatisfaction of the doctor and cause reactions that will never contribute to the success and quality of the health system. One of the first reactions of a number of doctors will most likely be to withdraw consent to work for more than 48 hours a week which will inevitably lead to a complete collapse of the health system. You should be told that these remaining doctors who stayed in Croatia last year did 3.5 million overtime. And these overtime hours imagine counting are completely out of line with what these doctors wear, and that's their status as head of department, that they have a doctorate, that they have a working experience rather than as one doctor who's just started working. So eight hours you're a professor, head of department, primarius, you have a doctorate, you have a certain working experience that you've reached with your level and work in that institution, and after eight hours of the next hour you've been paid as a regular doctor who's just started working. They're not gonna charge you overtime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78078	Thank you. The following will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honored Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78080	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's the predecessor talking about the problems of certain groups. However, people and rights to the Republic of Croatia. However, the fact is that what I am going to say is that the people at risk, especially in undeveloped areas, I will mention the Dalmatian Zagora again because it is my obligation to speak from this pay phone all the time, and so is the Ravni Kotars, so is Lika, Gorski Kotar and Slavonia. The whole area, I can only set an example that I repeat all the time. Currently, health homes such as Split-Dalmatia County know that in 2002 the Law was given the opportunity to have health homes fusing to be county owners, no more local self-government, part of local self-government, part of the county is, 10 counties, meaning half, 10 counties fusing homes of health, and other counties are, other local self-governments with the possibility of establishing health homes, so Licko-Senjska has 4 home health and so on. At this point in Split-Dalmatia County, the home of health has only 4 radiologists. 500 thousand people, the largest county and the most widespread county. In the Cetina region today, it ceases at all to work radiology, because the last one went because of the poor relationship of people who manage the health of Split-Dalmatia County because they have more officials and employees in the home of health than they need to invest in people, invest in specializations, and now we have a huge problem where women in the Cetinska Krajina area, who by the number of residents are bigger than Like and larger by the number of residents and by like and many other counties, are left without a radiologist and now simply for the person who was to be retired, an elderly person and cannot meet all obligations primarily on women. Women wait six months to sign up for UZV breasts and after six months, if they're lucky to enroll, and these are huge rows, by a thousand, two women wait to enroll and if they're lucky, they'll be examined in six months. Many die in rows, and they do not have the opportunity in these undeveloped areas to carry out this breast UV review. It's an injustice. It is the system that refers to these underdeveloped areas regardless of what nationality is and who it is because it is the fact that everything is against as Minister Kujundzic said goes private and is not good. The health care system, mainly in undeveloped areas and emergency care, must urgently return to what they used to be, to be in all municipalities of the possibility of doctors of general practice, and in areas of health homes where they are wider, to have radiologists, to have these reviews, not that our poor people have to pay for private checks. They don't have the money for it, they don't have a secure transport from their final places where they live in the edge areas of those parts, they don't have to go to health homes. Simply once again appeal to Minister Kujundzic. You were in Sinj, you promised Imotski hospital, you promised a number of promises. Go to Cetinska Krajina and look at these women who are crying for their health, for a checkup and who die numerous, and who do not have the opportunity to have their review and have no prevention measures and of course, I said UZV breast, but other checks are impossible because people don't have the money to check, to go to a privateer. The entire system of health is broken, targeted, in the interest of private interests, private medical offices, against which I personally have nothing. However, we cannot afford to have a health care system in underdeveloped areas, that people with weaker property conditions, older people, do not have the possibility of basic examinations. It is in this case now Cetina Krajina, similar in Vrgorec, is similar throughout the Split-Dalmatia County, and we do not have the possibility in Makarska either. We don't have diagnostic devices in Vrgorec, so the mayor is familiar with all the Split-Dalmatias, Boban, doing nothing. Apart from the fact that they continue to enroll people in the administration and do not invest in the specialization of doctors, we do not have radiologists, and the relationship between health directors in Split-Dalmatia County has forced quality radiologists to leave the health home. This was targeted, all for the purpose of private health, and to the detriment of people, mainly endangered groups, regardless of what nationality is and which religion is involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78081	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78082	Now it's time for my colleague, Nikola Grmoy, to be held in the name of the Most Independent Lists. And just a little while ago, a greeting to students and students of the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Educational Sciences of the University of Mostar. Hello... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78083	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk about a play that I'm familiar with, and actually, it's about one big, possible affair at the Foreign Ministry. Namely, President Goran Jandrokovic arrived in February with documents supporting the submission of a Croatian professional diplomat, arguing that he claimed irrefutable evidence of the participation of several diplomats from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs in organised fraud at the expense of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The documents received indicate that the current secretary-in-chief of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has been paid for years at the General Consulate of the Republic of Sydney, where it was held in the play falsely and unlawfully, while in reality it was deployed to the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia in Canberra, together with the husband, who was in the same embassy ambassador. Under the ministry's rule, it was said that it was forbidden to deploy members of the embassy's rope family to the embassies run by the same ambassadors. Furthermore, the documents received suggest that the same diplomat, as early as last year, informed Minister Pejcinovic Buric of the participation of several diplomats in the fraud. However, the minister did not initiate proceedings against diplomats who committed and covered up fraud, but kept them in high management positions in the ministry. Also, the same Croatian diplomat, last year, gave the performance directly to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and after not being held accountable from the government, he suspected the prime minister, Mr Plenkovic, of corruption and political protection, of the perpetrators of the fraud. In the same performance, Mr Plenkovic was pointed out in January, a report by the State Audit Office for the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs in 2016, which found that Mr Josko Paro, former ambassador to the Republic of Washington, damaged the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for several years, monthly and unlawfully paying $8000 and $200 to the locally employed person in the Embassy of the Republic of Washington. Instead of being sanctioned for a serious violation of official duty, former Ambassador Paro was appointed head of the diplomatic academy of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs after a month. The diplomat who reported the fraud, reported the DORH last year, but the DORH did not, after a legal deadline of 6 months. He didn't answer. Afterwards, the man addressed Mr Orsat Milenic, the chairman of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament, and asked that, in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, he publicly testify to what he said about documented corruption and crime, top officials of the government of the Republic of Croatia and officials of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. I would ask my SDP colleagues to continue their argument outside the assembly so that he can finish his speech. The diplomat who reported the fraud, means he also addressed all the vice-presidents of the parliament by the submission, after Mr Jandrokovic refused to deliver the documents received to the parliamentary deputies, although it is the duties of the president of the parliament, the rules of procedure specified. To date, Prime Minister Plenkovic has not responded at all, and Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic remains hiding documents. Should we listen to Mr Plenkovic's favorite PR phrase this time, as no e-mail has been sent to him. The public deserves to know, which is why the Prime Minister is covering up possible fraud starts at the Embassy of the Republic of Croatia in Camberrai, Washington, which has been personally notified to the performances several times, which proves delivered e-mail messages, as well as postal returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78084	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy. You said it was sent to the DORH, so it's... Yes, it is, but it was sent to the DORH. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a criminal charges against certain officials. So, how do I know if someone committed a crime or not, that will be decided by the DORH. And I'm familiar with that. However, I have assessed, if criminal charges are filed, that the DORH will assess whether or not it is. I worked at the state administration and I know that such cases are very much and very often end in a way that refuses. So I wouldn't want to judge anyone without enough information and willingness and knowledge of the whole issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78085	Dear President, since you took advantage of the opportunity to react to my speech, so I did not claim to be here about it, I only presented what it says in the play, but you were on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament asked, to forward that play to all MPs, you refused to do so and I can only assume for what reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78086	All right, come on. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78088	Honorable MPs and MPs. MOST today wanted to show a video presentation about microsolars during this free-exposure club. The proposal for a law made by MOST to reduce energy poverty so that our entrepreneurs can use microsolares more efficiently and to make their products more competitive on the market automatically and to strengthen HEP in a way that it can become a regional leader. Therefore, Croatia will each year give more than 200 million kunas to the poor families for heating if they can be provided with microsolars and will receive not only heating but will succeed and earn electricity throughout the year. Therefore, they would not allow more efficient use of microsolars for our entrepreneurs so that their production is cheaper and more competitive on the market. Which is why they wouldn't allow HEP to use it in a way that you have more than tens of thousands of installed microsolars so they won't need coal thermal power plants in the Neretva valley or elsewhere. But what's interesting today's presentation, the video presentation we couldn't hold, the President of the Parliament yesterday gave a memo saying it wasn't a practice. I must stress here that I listened very carefully to the speech on Parliament's solemn day on the introduction of new technologies, I just don't see the reason why a video presentation that speaks a thousand words because you gave us five minutes, which is why the video presentation is not this new technology. Why should a constructive and positive film not be shown to parliamentary representatives, the media and the general public? If you're talking about the usual practice, the usual practice until a few years ago was when you were voting to raise your hands so someone smart remembered that pressing the key was something that was more effective, faster, simpler, more transparent. I don't get it. We therefore invite all parliamentary representatives, all media, to come to Stjepan Radić's hall today at 12:30 p.m. to look at this video presentation that is forbidden to appear here in the assembly because apparently all reforms and any introduction of new technologies are prohibited during this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78089	Dear fellow Petrov, so I did not forbid anything but I am a colleague of the Grumoi, who called me yesterday during the day, said it was a new practice to decide on, just a little while, don't give me any damage to the Rules of Procedure because you called me here, so I'm going to tell you what happened. So my colleagues said really from the secretariat that it wasn't a practice and then I'm colleagues to Grumoji on the phone because he called me that it wasn't a practice and that so far we haven't had any video presentations in these five minutes of free speech, it's called free speech, not free video presentation, and if we want to change the technology that I'm ready to do so, but that decision is made by the presidency. Have you been briefed by a colleague of the Grmoy about this? I hope so. So, I don't mind if we introduce new technologies, but I also think it should be a deal for the leaders of the Croatian Parliament. This point is called free speech by the Rules of Procedure, you now want to show video watches, videos, if that's what we do, and we can do it, but I will not do it with my own will, but with an agreement at the Parliament's presidency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78090	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you violated Article 33, you violated Article 249. The article 33 clearly states that you should represent the rights and obligations of parliamentary representatives that you have not done at this time but have used 2, 3 minutes that are measured at all to explain your position. You were wrong about article 249. In Article 249, it discusses free presentation of parliamentary representatives, free presentation. Who is it that said or maybe you are the grandmother of Wang, so you knew that you would not only have a video presentation but you might also have a speech in those five minutes. So, I would also meet that criterion of yours that does not appear in Article 249, we would also speak with a video presentation so that, unfortunately, Article 249 does not stand what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78091	So, my colleague Grumoja on direct my question whether you want to have a Power Point presentation, so something that will monitor your exposure because it was the case in the Parliament, it was the last prime minister, if we remember all together, he said no, introducedly I would say a few words and then played a video film afterwards. I said it was really not a practice, that it would introduce something completely new and that it could be decided by the presidency. I don't want to decide because I don't think I'm authorized to do that, it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure as we do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78092	I apologize, but please state the article under which it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You called the Rules of Procedure, so tell me what article would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure to display a video presentation with a speech? [[Adversity President: A video show.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78093	Dear fellow Petrov, so this is 5 minutes of free speech, someone can tell me that they want to dance here for 5 minutes, and then I'll decide whether it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure or not. We've never had a video presentation before, and it's not defined by the Rules of Procedure that it should and may be, and we're going to say, and we're ending it now, we can discuss the presidency about it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78094	The next club is the bridge of independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78095	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to welcome my few colleagues and colleagues because it's a fact that at this time the break doesn't call for what it should be, the reflection it's had. I'd like to talk about what's most important right now in the Republic of Croatia, and that's demographic measures. We've seen them for years full of mouths, mostly in recent months of demographic measures. People, politics mainly did not listen to experts and the fact that the remains were mentioned in the last few days. If it were a public focus because of you colleagues and colleagues who are few, I'd like you to remind us, we've already had them in 11 cities to present the rest of the movement. These are legal initiatives and measures that are realistic and that are as good as we will obey yours. Unfortunately, however, the government does not propose them. Those are the measures when we start with health care. Today we have two liquid Croatias where they have literally no health care services, and we with these measures in motion remain. experts offer solutions. We see the problems we have in the judiciary. The judiciary is a cancer of Croatian societies, we give them numerous legal initiatives and realistic measures. I don't know why the government can't hear us. When we talk about agriculture, we also give a number of measures because these sent by the government allow only to continue eviction, mainly from Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora, Ravni Kotars, like and therefore we have no residents and therefore we import cheap, mainly GMO food because I will repeat once again when I had the law here on GMOs, banning GMOs, 130 million euros is annually only the introduction of pork. We had an example where in the Vrgorak region a young fruit farmer drank his young orchard because he couldn't be competitive and went to live in another country. We're giving you measures for that. The public administration, the entrepreneurship of the 28 measures implemented, that is what experts stress. It is not only the solution to demographic problems that some populist measures have been announced by the HDZ for a newborn child, it is just a populist measure and it is the 28-year-old populistism. We must have measures, as we have measures in energy, such as the Law on Microsolars, which was banned here yesterday to be presented in the Parliament, which is realistic and realistic because Croatia has a great potential for the sun, including the wind, where it would be independent and where it would not be monopolistic in the management of energy, but every citizen would have the possibility, mostly poor and realistic, to do so on the ground, not to push harmful projects, such as the thermopower plant, such as the pushed Perun thermal power plant, which is why it is forbidden, because the lobbyes that govern this country do not correspond to that we have independent families that will produce electricity. If there is 10 times more in Finland, 15 than in Croatia we have a microsolar and then I see no reason why it should not be in Croatia. Just what we give for renewables in wind parks, we give a billion-and-a-half kunas to foreign money-raisers. In 4 years, in 3 years, that money would have been directed for microsolars in every household, it could have been a microsolar, so all our citizens would have been producers of electricity, and not many winters would have welcomed without heat where the state hundreds of millions of kuna, along with local self-government gives for heating. The means exist, the money is there, and these are the measures of the survival movement, at this point in time of survival and return. But the government can't hear us. Many experts, including politicians, are publicly calling for the rest movement as the only solution currently offered. The government does not want to hear this because it is not interested in it because the interested groups that are eligible obviously do not comply with these measures of independent Croatian citizens under the conditions that we have, the government is obviously not responding to the state of order, the energy independent state, the state of undertaking, but is responding to chaos and the bullet to move out what we have of our citizens. And we have to warn again, the movement of the remains is what stops two-thirds of Croatia from moving out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78096	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78098	... At this point, I want to address the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and all those who know that such a law that has been adopted, which will be accepted by the hands of the ruling and all those who will give support unacceptablely and since our amendments proposed by MOST cannot be presented to the Croatian public at some reasonable time since they will come in time to defend themselves until around midnight. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Three hundred is an amendment, as you know. But the public also needs to know what the position of the Most Independent Lists on this project is. The LNG project is a project that was supposed to represent an opportunity and that potentially posed a threat. You've dropped the opportunity as you've laid down this law, and now it poses a threat. The threat and the ecological and health threats of the citizens of my region. And that is why MOST of Independent Lists has proposed three amendments that are quite different to this story. An amendment that seeks to address the issue of a floating LNG, an amendment regarding a concession period that is unduly too long and an amendment regarding compensation to a local self-government unit. Therefore, we believe that the technology of infusing natural gas should be limited exclusively to a solution with a closed cycle without the use of sea and chlorine. And in connection with that, we have proposed an amendment. Therefore, an open circle with the use of chlorine poses unnecessary and excessive risks, and the justification for the rejection of this amendment is unacceptable by increasing operational costs. 1.3% of the gas consumption you consider to be more valuable than the environmental and health you put at risk. A floating terminal can be the only phase to be replaced by a land terminal that needs to establish production and other economic content that requires this valuable cooling energy as we already have information, this amendment will be rejected, and always to support this law is to accept our amendments. The concession period of 99 years is absolutely unacceptable, the life span of this technology is 25 to 30 years and the concession period of 99 years cannot be accepted, which is why we suggested that it be 40 years. So, the land terminal is a permanent solution and needs to get to that stage as soon as possible because only this phase allows synergy effects. Because it is important to know that in-house natural gas does not exclude renewable energy sources but enables the transition from dirty fossil fuels to this purest fossil energy that is necessary until as a society, we reach the conditions of full domination of renewable energy sources, sun, wind, geothermal and biomass. And next, our last amendment was about local self-government and the way this entire time of debate towards Omislje and our region itself, and it is obvious that the government of Zagreb has been very weak but in any way communicating and communicating with this project. This has caused great resistance that you could see both with great protest and on the sea, but all these months where citizens clearly say that this project does not want and this amendment is in fact an incentive for the local self-government unit to be better involved and a fairer reward for the function of this for the country of important project. So what's a fact, which is that LNG is a strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia. We heard what HNS said. Both LNGs need co-financing. I wonder how many landers will need to co-finance. But one Obrovac was also a top and very important project for Yugoslavia. We know how he ended up. And that is why I repeat, LNG is a strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia, but it is also imperative of this project that must be respected. Economically profitable and environmentally acceptable LNG that will not endanger the health of citizens, tourism and our Kvarner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78099	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78100	I would now like to ask on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, that the esteemed colleague Panenic take the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78101	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed visitors. Today I would talk about the Association of the municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, all who were in the capacity of the mayor and also the mayor know about the association of municipalities, the association of towns, so the Association of municipalities defined as a non-profit, non-party, NGO that deals with the representation of common interests of municipalities in the area of the Republic of Croatia and operates on a democratic, political, cultural basis,... sustainable development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I do this as an introduction, the introduction is what happened in my county, in the county where the chairmanship of the Association of municipalities decided to organise a meeting with the mayors of Vukovar-Srijem County, with the mayor, with his associates, with representatives. But where did the problem arise? The problem is that the municipality of Ivanovo was chosen as a place of events. The municipality, which received an independent chief who achieved the envious results and the call that was made, received all the commissioners, confirmed one good part, and then there was a political obstruction where Mayor Bozo Galic, HDZ of Vukovar-Srijem County ordered its commissioners not to attend the meeting. When we compare that the same meeting was held in the county of Karlovac where of the 16 members attended the meeting of 13, in my county of 20 members, the HDZ waters, none of which were present last Monday at a meeting held in Ivanov. And then there's the question that we need to get out of it? Is this a message from our colleague Reiner who said there is no party discipline in HDZ, that it is a democratic party where everyone has the right to express their opinions and views. That's what he said on March 22nd. Or yet there is tradition, intention, management of people's lives, and even those who we believe have won their mandates in democratic free elections, we see that that's not the case. And they are managed in a way that obstructs a joint association. Well, it's an association where the president's from HDZ. And now who's going to get hurt? Maybe HDZ will call the president of the association of municipalities which he called there or will you call Bozo Galic because he is of origin from Ivanov so that he may be in pain because he is not in power there? This is the message that I'm telling these young people here that it can't happen that it can't be at that level of obstruction, sabotage with a political background. What should the association of municipalities represent now, what attitudes from my county? It seems that there will be attitudes of those who are independent, who have been there, who have said the state of the county is not well. Not that it's not good, but a county that has mass eviction or should be another message, which is that HDZ disagrees with nothing, the situation is great. The situation is great, or as it appears, our colleague, who is listed in the media, he said that here young people from Vukovar-Srijem County, actually from Vinkovac and the Republic, is the result of difficult parents, I would say that the consequence of the difficult party dictatorship that are being introduced and not a single principle of democracy is respected. This is an example of why young people leave because they no longer want to be those who are being trampled by someone, who will be ordered by someone, who wants to participate in development, want to make a contribution, want to be respected, and respected for their effects, they want to be criticised when something fails, but they do not want to be equalized that they all have to listen to just one leader. Gentlemen, the championship here is HDZ, and ladies, it certainly is not democracy, and it is not the way we should primarily welcome in my county any organization, let alone a community association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78102	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Bozo Petrov will speak, please also the Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78103	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Last Saturday, we had a chance to see how much debris the safety of sea navigation is and how little it really takes to endanger the ecological safety of the Adriatic Sea. I'm talking, of course, about an event that took place near the farthest island of Apple Island about the hararium of the Turkish ship Hax. This incident threatened one of the richest habitats, the growth of our organisms that move and grow in the people most recognizable as shrimp and donkeys, Croatian services, people reacted quickly, a major disaster was prevented, the ship was dragged to Trogir. And at this point, I want to congratulate absolutely everyone who participated in this action, who prevented a major ecological disaster. But, on the other hand, this is a good opportunity to remember that the Republic of Croatia has not yet taken advantage of its rights to declare an exclusive economic belt in the Adriatic Sea. It's about the law that belongs to us to the UN Convention, and by delaying this decision, we've largely given up the rights that belong to us, the jurisdiction that belongs to us in the sea space, about 24,000 square miles. I urge you, please, to take this latest incident as a warning, to start acting as a serious maritime state, which has both the will and the capacity and ambition to control, control, exploit our marine space and marine resources. At the beginning of this Mr. Bridge of Independent Lists, he referred to the Croatian Assembly for a proposal to make a decision on the declaration exclusively of the economic belt. In this proposal, we highlighted a series of benefits, from the declaration of economic belts in the Adriatic, from potential economic benefits, environmental protection, security aspects. Our proposal is not opposed to anyone, moreover, it is an invitation to co-operate with other countries with which we share the Adriatic Sea. It is about the sea, which is relatively small, closed and does not take much to turn a smaller incident into a major ecological disaster and not only an ecological disaster, but it will have a significant impact on our economic system, because our economic system is deeply linked to tourism. We at the Most are aware that the declarations of an exclusively economic belt, an easy question, is not an easy question, but we believe that Croatia in diplomatic talks with other countries, has the opportunity to work hard on them, that it can happen. Also, you should be aware that the declaration exclusively of the economic belt, not only gives some right, gives the obligation to control that space, should be invested in the fleet of our police vessels, in our coast guard, finally our Navy. At the end of the year, the government of the Republic of Croatia put together a report to present the ministries on the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. The moment you read that report, then you can see that it's actually a series of arguments about the alleged excess of the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. After reading it, I can say that we asked ourselves that the French, British and others who have declared the exclusive economic belt are actually inconclusive, inconclusive, because they have declared the economic belts, obviously by our ministries, without any need or reason. However, it seems to me that these governments and administrations have given very good thought to what benefits and needs they need to declare an exclusive economic belt, because they have been guided by the future that belongs to them. So once again, I ask you to discuss together and make a decision on the declaration of an exclusively economic belt, to provide adequate protection to the Adriatic Sea, which has fed us, which feeds us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78105	We're going to debate no. 7. Honored colleague Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78106	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we saw just before my colleague Ines Strenja-Linić pointed to the problems of the doctor and the protest, the doctors are currently protesting, until recently completed, blocked, those who dig through the container. The moment has come in the Republic of Croatia when doctors protest but unfortunately in this House you can't talk through a break and some sort of agreement to raise it to a level and among clubs, between clubs because President of the Parliament doesn't allow that when topics are important. So last week, agriculture, import lobbies, also interrupted counterpart Grmoi, we had a number of other topics, but apparently in this new Parliament, the new Rules of Procedure wants democracy and the right to speak to be abolished. I will now speak after I have pointed out this to you about the abolition of democratic debates on important issues in the Republic of Croatia in our largest home, I will now talk about what is happening in rural, forgotten areas and that the continuation of centralisation of every law, all shifts are essentially interesting and centralized. So now we have the law and the judicial package so-called. reforms that will essentially endanger these two-thirds of Croatia that are empty. And that law at this point centralized everything and the intention of the law on the seat of courts, areas and seats of courts was to dissipate centralized and large courts such as Zagreb and Split. And basically what's going on? Examples occur in the Dalmatian Zagora, which has been declared developed for example. By index, the Law on Regional Development Drniš has been developed, Sinj is developed, Vrgorac has been developed, Most Like has been developed, which is a lie, we all know that it has not been developed but the fact that this law case court will no longer be the Municipal Court in Sinj, regardless of what we have in the Cetitian region of 50,000 inhabitants, more than Ličko-Senj County and what the Cetin County is greater than many counties, for example. and Međimurje County. They don't care what people in the Vrlic area, from Ottišic and many other parts,... You have to go 80km in one direction to the first court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These costs are huge, which workers will have to leave the courts, employees, judges and others, have to go 70, 80km to their jobs, which in 4 hours there will be no court in the event of any emergency situations, there will be no on call, in one area such as the Dalmatian Zagora. We are not Sinj, but also Knin, this year we mark the same day as Storm and the running of the Sinj Alka. Yes, everyone will come to Knin, everyone will come to Sinjska Alka, of course we expect everything and call for open hearts but all institutions from health, from the jurisprudence, all of us in the Dalmatian burns down. As a result, in the last 4 years from 2011 to 2016, 26 thousand inhabitants have moved from Dalmatia to Bulgaria. The same is true in Lika and Gorski Kotar and Ravni Kotari and Slavonia and Zagorje. What's it all about? What makes the Treasury more important and seems to be a shame to these rural areas? So even this law today that we're going to have here is also not in favour, it's not in favour of our citizens in rural areas. Here's an example, just the court of Sinj, a municipality where the building was built in 1875 almost 150 years ago, was opened by King Joseph of Austria. Well, he took better care of these parts as an alien than the ones that are now being extinguished by a municipal court in Sinj. What is the interest of shutting down the Sinj municipal court when our poor woman will have to travel if she has 100km of money in other parts, our workers? So what's the point? The stranger was more concerned, Emperor Joseph was leading, Emperor Francis, sorry he was more concerned, but all the aliens were leading, all of the Turks so far were taking care of this current government. Everything in this area, these undeveloped areas are being shut down. Which is why it is centralized, ask your colleagues, which is why two-thirds of Croatia are empty to Prime Minister Plenkovic and you are pushing us into Africa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78107	Thank you, fellow Bull. 10 seconds longer you are saying what only confirms that you can speak in the Croatian Parliament. And I want to remind you one more time and explain if you did not understand, so the word was taken away from my colleague Strenji-Linić because she violated the Rules of Procedure which clearly says what a break is, that is Article 3. And now you've had the right to speak at the time of this free speech and come into a bizarre situation to accuse me of not letting you speak and at the same time you're behind the pay phone and saying whatever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78108	And finally in front of the Most, Mr. Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a new collective contract for employees in primary school institutions, teachers, educational rehabilitators who work in regular OS, lost the right to as much as 2 bonuses per salary, which is about 600 kuna. Educational rehabilitators working at the site of a regular school associate never had any additional rights, although they are directly working with students with developmental difficulties. Teachers of educational rehabilitators in special institutions and experts in special institutions shall only be subject to direct work. That's why they got paid less by 600 kuna. Educational rehabilitators decided to request their material rights right at the protest I returned from, which is why counterpart Nikola Grmoja wanted to request a break, but was disabled, and there they made their remarks and their rights. The minister only received them for 10 minutes, explaining that there was more important, or other work. It should also be said that these are teachers working under the most difficult conditions and with children who need special care and special writing preparations and that they are just cut off from this indirect work in writing preparations for which they will not be paid. The ministry is justified that they did not know at all that their salaries would be reduced and that certain trade unions signed it, however, on the pay lists of professors and teachers and professional associates it is precisely seen that the salary has been reduced by 500 kuna, so the figures do not lie. Educational rehabilitators work to directly include students with difficulties at their environment at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, experts whose primary goal is to involve people with disabilities and students with disabilities. Their work depends on the quality of life of the students and their families. However, under the new collective agreement, they will not be paid for the work. It should also be mentioned that on March 1st, the Croatian Parliament declared the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators, and that today we can freely declare today a day of mourning for these same people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78110	Thank you, too. I don't have any more applications to take a club stand, popularly called a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78111	We move on to the next presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected fellow Vice-President of the Assembly Mr Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78112	Thank you. To congratulate our football players for being the only bright spot right now, the only one who brings joy to our society. And then imagine what it's like. With today's break, Mr. Shuker, I'd like to look at the problem that upsets the citizens, as far as their pensions are concerned, but not to the government to question their actions, but, as usual, they accuse the media and the public of misreading everything, conveyed. Well, I don't think the citizens got it wrong, clearly standing in the pre-election programme of HDZ on the page. 91, an increase in investment in the second pillar of pension insurance, as they can misread when they realized, the HDZ today when it entered the government, suggests a decommissioning of the second pension pillar. Interestingly, the way he cares, the way Minister Pavić, dead cold at the press conference, presented pension reform, all the calculation of pensions from both pillars, so that surpassed the idea of introducing real estate taxes. By practically taking away the savings from the citizens from the second pension stake, it's far more reckless. The only real concern of the government is how to patch the holes, how to spill from the hollow to the empty, how to hide the things that happen in the background. They're not interested in reform or human improvement or demographic measures. And then they came up with a revolutionary reform, and it reads to you, give up your savings, which is mostly government bonds. We'll give you 27% in the future, so we'll beat up the debt, and you'll lose your savings. History repeats itself, so also, who's going to pay back 27%, hasn't thought about Sanader, 10-11 years ago. They also promised 27% of the same time people said, it's not possible, you have to do different things. Don't worry about the government, what's gonna happen to this one, what's gonna happen later, or who's gonna handle it. And I'm interested in something else, which the government, or the great government minds, would say on this proposal. Reduce the tremendously high pension fund benefits, so your pensions will grow, increase the transparency of the pension funds process, reduce the market concentration of pension funds' power, so risk investments will certainly be lower, and pensions will grow again. You implement structural reforms, such as public administration reforms, aid in the economy, entrepreneurs, and will reduce the cost of the state, and GDP will grow, so that pensions will grow, and yet you won't have to take anything from future pensioners. It just sounds simple, just unfortunately, this government doesn't have this reform potential, there's no way to spend absolutely, none of what they promised, it's clearly seen, every time a minister runs out, no matter how funny, his so-called. the reform will take place immediately after a few days. The diameter of that government heals you and says, "You're all ma'am, sir, you get it all wrong, it's nothing like that, so we don't know what it is anymore." Because one minister speaks one thing, then the other one, then the diameter of the third, interesting. But this solution, proposed by Mr Pavic on behalf of the government, presents a complete demonstration of the original pension reform. The way the future government with pension savings will have to do with experience so far, I don't think we should waste a word. Those who will profit in this way are pension funds, with their high fees, the current way of doing business, where in the towering circles, their business compares with cartels. The way in which this country is run, it annuls every responsibility of the ruling peoples, and this is just another one of their shows. Now, today is the time, to see again, that absolutely nothing changes, today for the government it is quite acceptable to give up the pension system after 18 years, with two mandatory pillars, to gradually transfer money to the state budget. The fact that we're going to create an unequal treatment of citizens doesn't worry them. The fact that poverty and inequality will increase in the country also does not worry them, bravo for the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78113	I thank my esteemed colleague, God's Petorva.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78114	And now we're going to apply, please, please, please, now we're going to apply for a position on behalf of the club, please, please, please, a club of representatives and independent representatives. The first reported MOST independent lists, Mr Ante Pranic. It's so-called. popular break, but I have to call her as she writes in the Rules of Procedure, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78115	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the birth of one of the largest boemas of the Croatian intellectual elite and the greats of the Croatian avant-garde and literature of Vrgorcanin Tin Ujevic. Although he was one of the greatest writers, he never won a single literary award while he was alive but therefore the biggest prize for Croatian poetry is called "Tin Ujević's Award" and is awarded in Vrgorec. "Tin Ujević Award" is a prize awarded for contribution to Croatian poetry and is the most prestigious prize in Croatian literature. It was founded in 1980, in Vrgorec is awarded since 1993, and this is the first year that the Ministry of Culture for such a prestigious award did not give any June. So I don't understand what the Ministry of Culture has to do with the greatest poet, the writer of Croatia. Over 3 million and 174 thousand and 900 kuna were awarded for various literary events in Croatia. It has been awarded for which some strip festivals and other awards, however, Tin Ujevic is obviously not valid for the Ministry of Culture. On the very page of the Ministry of Culture where the programme of award says Obviously, no one in the Parliament is interested in Tin Ujević, nor is the Ministry of Culture interested. [[/Intruder Radin: Mr. Pranic, I'm sorry, the time has been interrupted, continue. Here you go.]] On the very side of the ministry, it says that the special priority of the literary event is dedicated to the problem of sovereign Croatia and world literature, which includes traditional events such as Goran Spring, the Book of the Mediterranean, Galovic's fall. And an important segment is literary awards that are also funded by prizes. The "Grigor Knights Award", "Ksaver Shandor Gjaski" and the rest can be singled out. However, Tina Ujevic is not here either. I really don't know what Tin Ujević should do, or how much more frankly I don't know some of his parts should be published and who should announce them to the Ministry of Culture that 1 swear to the city of Vrgorec for this event. I am personally ashamed here from this pay phone to say that the Ministry of Culture has awarded 0 kuna to the town of Vrgorec for the event of Tina Ujevic. We're not talking about some insignificant poet, we're not talking about some meaningless literary award, it's the biggest award for Croatian literature. It's not a matter of money, it's a matter of real relationships, the money will be, Vrgorca will be, Croatia will be, Tina Ujević will be, but it seems that he was forgotten and forgotten and during creation, obviously forgotten and later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78116	Thank you, too. Sir, in the end Mr Tomislav Panenic is in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78118	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Today I would like to talk about where we are, here we have already appeared about the convenience which is actually one of the reasons why people from Croatia go where this government is then wondering and it's open-minded in the media why people leave when we're better than Africa, when we've given 100 kuna more extras, when new reforms are announced, progress, big promises and citizens keep going. And that's exactly where I would warn you that we are not consistent with that call of citizens, the government is not consistent. I will mention one of the reasons that has caused a number of anger in many areas of the Republic of Croatia where the ruling allocations, I will say part of the ruling allocations to those who are similar. It assigns cities and municipalities that are politically similar to the HNS where the HNS behaves in the same way as when I filed a criminal application to USKOK, when it was found that they were conducted in competitions of the Ministry of Economy during 2014, 2015, a number of irregularities under the management of then-Secret Minister Vrdoljak, which was then declared an election campaign. Until today, there was no answer to that application, nor was it rejected as such, and then the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Construction decided to take the same steps and share the funds from his ministry precisely to those where they expect to achieve their political results, these are their counties, where their mayors and mayors are in power or where they come from, about the criteria, about the commission that did no trace or vote, only one list that causes numerous anger and recommendations. One day it will be the same calling and a question as it was in the SDP while the HNS was with them why did you allow it, why did you allow that there are no criteria that no project in other Croatia is good enough, and the question is also now referred to the HDZ, why are you closing your eyes to this kind of distribution of funds? Then in 2014, in 2015 you saw local self-government, which received funds beyond the criteria as it was with... other areas listed please read this application. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How could some cities, municipalities, boasted about the results before they were even completed? As she performed, it was only after the media pressured to publish the results. What was the score? What can we draw from that as a conclusion? Only clientelism and him can literally be exported. How do you plan to even withdraw funds from European funds, when we do, the winehouse, the winehouse, the winehouse, more specifically, becomes a municipal project, for example. Rehabilitation of the Tuhelj ice rink, not the acquisition of municipal equipment in the municipality of Tovarnik e.g. I sincerely hope Minister Stromar enjoyed the moment he was assigned, publicly praising his municipality's resources to ensure its status, which he will not be able to defend anywhere further, where he believes that such favoration will set an example for such future results. I hope that the citizens and those who have benefited at this point will become aware that without the quality of the projects, without the qualitative selection, there is no progress, that what you might get today, that tomorrow you've broken out twice as much. It is simply necessary to defend those who have good projects, successful projects, and not those who are politically suitable, who are closer to the fire, who have protection, because in this way we will not become Europe, but we will not become any Uganda, because Uganda will be an example for us of what is standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78119	Thank you, too. We exhausted a list of speakers who were looking for breaks on behalf of their clubs and now a brief notice before we proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78120	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work and now the time has come for us to take a stand on behalf of the club and first, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Most Independent Lists will be spoken by the respected representative Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78121	Thank you very much, dear fellow parliamentary representatives and, of course, MPs, I will dedicate this free speech to the confusion and problems that exist in the Croatian higher education system, which will remain unresolved as things stand. In fact, the proposal to amend and supplement the law, which is actually just voted in the Croatian qualification framework, where it continues to insist on equating what is not the same, so things remain unresolved. Similarly, it applies to the Health Protection Act, only as it applies to the masters of medical biochemistry. Professional university study, duality of the school system, therefore, sufficient is necessary and justified. By developing science and technology, there is an increasing need for lifelong education and raising the level of qualifications. However, there must be no reaction to the difference between professional and university studies. Which is why students, directed as soon as possible, would go through the same study content as those who intend to continue schooling in a classical university study. This is why dual education is designed, because it is so much faster to meet market requirements, which is why expert study programmes should be established. However, why the discrimination is declared by the distinction between these two study programmes of professional and university. Don't we know that many students face the need to lay down powerful mathematics, physics, chemistry, thermodynamics, afluid mechanics, the less resistance line, decide to switch to a university, where there is, a professional, first pre-graduate study, and then a specialist graduate study, with similar duration and almost the same. The ECTS points similar to the basic study with work is quite possible, therefore, and satin adjusted. And all of that's fine, so let's get a higher level on this guy's education, with the money, but from where does the idea of insisting on getting a diploma, formally, completely equalized with a university study? Because the most common regular study with work is not possible. Much could be heard about the problems of the medical laboratory diagnostics magistrates, who require full equalisation of their status with the status of masters of biochemistry and laboratory medicine, despite the essential differences in the structure and content of studies. But they're not guilty, these young people, who are corners. with the work completed professional studies of medical laboratory diagnostics in Rijeka and Osijek and acquired legally unregulated calling. How come they're... The creators of these studies considered that the study without analytical, physical, organic chemistry, as well as with significantly less biochemistry and mathematics, would acquire the same competences as the already existing university study with a long tradition and the EU arrangement on which graduates with best success are enrolled for years, and the registration quota increased according to the needs of markets in collaboration with the Croatian Employment Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is this case missing necessarily necessary coordination between two scientific and higher education and health systems? I wonder if it could happen that a valuable nurse, after completing a sister's study, could enroll in two last years at some medical school get a doctor's call. Unfortunately, the price of non-disclosure and non-understanding of such a key matter and subsistence may also be for some stakeholders in the system of higher education, education, paying back young people, young people whose interests we owe protection to and young people without whom there really is no future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78122	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the MOST independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78124	Thank you very much, Vice President, good morning, colleagues and colleagues. We're following up on the health situation, one of those two major reforms that have to happen, but they never happen. After last year's intervention where, in this too, the House adopted budget rebalancing, 870 million kunas secured, distributed hospital, mostly clinical, about 200 million county, there was a return on debt towards major drugstores and a rewarming of major drugstores that the state is unsustainable. So we have a situation, what we solved ad hock last year at one point, after which we forgot. We haven't secured the continuity, it's already happening to us the second time. In the SDP government, there was the same strong intervention to get rid of that part, and then it stopped. Here we are last year and it's stopped again. Our debt is growing. Who was following, here I looked at just yesterday's data from 2007, 2008 was talking about a huge debt of a billion kuna that is in debt in health, now it's already grown to 8 billion debts according to major drugstores, 4 that actually dominates, rises practically to 3 billion and there is no, is there any indication that this will stop? What means? In this year's national reform programme, there is no sign of a vote in resolving this particular debt. In 2017, Minister Kujundzic said he is aware of this debt, that these financial problems will talk to major drugstores in 5 to 10 days, but we are now passing almost a year, but nothing happened. What paid off one piece and it's not complete, hospitals, we have data, it's probably not the latest, but it can always be more recent, the ministry knows it, that 24 hospitals have deadlines for payments over 365 days. And we here claim payments must be within 30 days. So the greatest indifference is again creating a public system. Unfortunately, in my Vukovar-Srijem County, two hospitals are first in line with the obligations they have on these grounds, for a thousand days and Vinkovci, Vukovar owes its suppliers. In one county I say it may be smaller hospitals than some in Zagreb or some other areas, but imagine a thousand days being obliged to someone, it is almost 3 years that you have not paid someone an account. And let's not forget that one of these hospitals is just the hospital of Croatian veterans that needs to provide maximum good care or just for the most endangered group, the healthiest one that needs special care, special care, special costs, something is obtained on that basis, but that's why it cuts off on those fundamental grounds. What do you say if 80 million kunas grow monthly debt? 12X80 billion, one billion in a year. The Minister of Health said it was an inherited problem and he was right, it is a problem that has been dragging on for years in the Croatian system. However, in 2018 you can no longer say that, 2018 is seen with the mandate in which you are, is no longer inherited, is your problem. Someone has to fight the state budget to solve the problem permanently, not to be one strong PR action in one year to say here we have 870 million kuna secured and then we haven't paid a single kuna in half a year. What is even more worrying, the non-payment of HZZO is causing financial indiscipline, causing one set of debts transferred within the area, transferring to all enterprises that are in the system supplying their goods or services to the hospital. Imagine a Vukovar-Srijem County where for three years the hospital does not pay some obligations as it affects prices. Of course, even the wholesalers don't have it in their pocket, but they also owe themselves the entire cost of borrowing where interest is not little to all of us Croatian citizens again. We've entered a circle where we can't solve healthcare and on the other hand, we're still enjoying the banking sector. Do not forget that the announcements are optimistic but the Obligation Health Insurance Act says the state of Croatia is obliged to provide funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78125	Thank you. And the next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78127	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here today when we celebrate this great victory, we decide or we have a debate, and tomorrow we will probably decide on the person who will act as governor of the CNB. This is one of the most important functions in the country because the CNB is an institution which, among other things, is one of the most important tasks in determining and implementing monetary and foreign policy, concerns about price stability, issuing and withdrawing the authorisation and consent related to the business of credit institutions and credit unions, and the conduct of supervisory and supervisory tasks of their business. In its work, the CNB is independent and independent without any possibility of monitoring this work by e.g. State audits. I remind you that we have tried to push this through the Croatian Parliament twice, but neither was Governor Vujčić inclined to do so, nor were colleagues from the HDZ, unfortunately not colleagues from the SDP. Not long ago, a former governor received the award for the best governor while at the same time in the Republic of Croatia the monetary system of Agrokor that resulted in all of this later, and the same governor, we all know what he confessed to before the Committee on Agrokor, which he admitted to me when I asked him who had persuaded him to political engagement. In January, I spoke about crime in the Split credit union of Bram. I then apostrophe of more facts about how several state institutions act or not, and directly in such a way as to participate in the cover-up of criminal activities. After my presentation, Nacional wrote a little more in detail about this case and the result of media inscriptions was that he was the deputy county attorney in Split who ran the same case and was assigned to a new deputy county attorney. And what happened in the last six months? By the state's attorney's office in Split nothing. Meanwhile, a bankruptcy procedure has been opened against the credit union required by former members of the administration for their claims on savings opened by the state's attorney's office because there is a reasonable doubt that the savings were created as a result of a criminal offence. Are the suspects blocked by the property? Of course not. It is interesting that the NHB control service in 2010 established in the supervision of the financial reports of that credit union that the credit union had been illegally reformed in 2008, and when requesting the authorisation to work, it provided the CNB with untrue documentation. The CNB official has announced measures which may in such a case be merely the withdrawal of the authorisation for work. However, these measures did not take place and the credit union continued to work with the blessing of the CNB until early 2016. Are the reasons for not taking any sanctions by the CNB service according to that credit union corrupting the former credit union's liability to individuals from the CNB supervisory directorate? Evidence of the DORH activities mentioned in Split has been available for two years and absolutely nothing is done. Does the state's attorney's office in Split protect criminal activity in the CNB? 400 savings and their families are damaged by some 100 million kunas and are available with all relevant documentation supporting all these and other claims. Will in this case eventually the Republic of Croatia pay for all the damage caused by the insubordination of its officials? Is this just one isolated case or is this a rule in the CNB? Since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, there has been an extremely large number of banks that ended up in bankruptcy. The task of the CNB's supervisory service is to prevent, in advance, the detection of business anomalies, from making sure that there is a secure case when the State's Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation guarantees that security savings will be paid in one-off amounts. If the CNB services were doing their job to such situations, they wouldn't be, and that's what we're expected to finally edit this country in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78128	Thank you very much. That's how we're gonna finish our work today. We'll pick him up tomorrow at 9.30 and we'll start voting right away at 9.30. Thank you very much, good afternoon. Session adjourned at 12.05 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will now proceed with the presentation of the position on behalf of the club and will be the first to be the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge on behalf of which the esteemed representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78130	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues and those who are leaving, I would just say, at the end of this session, that we had here, today and the vote, where, under strange circumstances, we bring numerous appointments, so who else's weirdest circumstance is the appointment of governor of the CNB, i.e. The trade appointments of governors and deputy governors, and that is obvious in a way to name a man, who is essentially guilty of the situation in the Republic of Croatia, a man who is this Mr. HNB has 2.5 billion kuna losses. The biggest loser in the Republic of Croatia, who banks act as if this is their... appointed, the entire Republic of Croatia, 4 billion kunas only for fees and fees are taken from our citizens every year where there is no revision from the political elites, chosen by the new governor, the old one, who was rewarded by those who simply allowed man to continue to call competitions for masters of bosses who will... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] quality wines and knock that fish down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is more than embarrassing, that the man who carried out the monetary coup and financial instability in the Republic of Croatia has caused because he himself said he knew about 10 billion kunas of using bonds without cover used by Agrokor and we know what Agrokor led to. And that's normal for a man, he says that the bonds live their lives without referring to his monetary policy, to his management of Croatian monetary policy that has led the entire Croatian people to the edge, to the emigration, where we have 300,000 blocked, completed, and today the greatest culprit, gentlemen from the ruling you, have rewarded the man who destroyed the sovereignty of Croatian and monetary policy as a key policy. Here we see that here a moment ago the majority agreed that because HSLS was not there, that they jumped their fellow independent for Croatia at one point, as a cover to resolve the question of the tenants and owners of the apartments. It's a lie. They did not solve this problem but transferred the problem to be solved by another government within five years. He's not a tenant. This is just fog and I call now at this moment when the entire people, here we see now the three of us, the four of us in the Parliament, when the whole nation is essentially following our fires. This law on the tenants and employers of the state has the leverage to solve the space, the problem, has all the leverage to solve in a satisfactory way both the tenants and the owners, however, has not been made so far. It's a deception and a lie and those who held the majority today, let them ask themselves what they've solved and as soon as the rental vote was cut off, that's just to say the other majority jumped in. We see here, today a law on education has been passed which is the mask and PR of the HNS minister who said here that this law will give reform students the same conditions, primary school students, high school students in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. 2/3 Croatia does not have free textbooks except the environment, local self-governments that are rich, it is a huge injustice today when we call for digitisation, when we call for reforms, land of knowledge, we have a problem that, textbooks, school bags are the most difficult subject to students. 10 kilos. As a result, many students have twisted spines and many other diagnosed problems, illnesses that our parents point to. They centralized absolutely everything, the minister instead of decentralising programs in schools, experimental programs and qualifications for curricula, she took everything under her own and appointing the principal which is most important will be by party card as so far and not by quality. Because I believe that this assembly of Parliament is remembered for lifting the speech to the MPs, reducing the rights and I expect that one day people's representatives will come here to speak sovereignly and now here again in the end and I would say, I want all the best to the Fires because they are one bright example of how together we can fight for a better Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78131	And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, the Reformist and Independent Representatives will speak to the esteemed representative, Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78132	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I am obliged to meet the public that the moment came when the Croatian Government led President Andrej Plenkovic recognised the problem of the Immunological Institute, accepted the proposal of the city of Zagreb, that is, Mayor Milan Bandic, and thanks to the support of the prime minister, understanding of Health Minister Milan Kujundzic formed the Committee of the Government and the City, which, after a professional debate, reached conclusions that pave the way for the healing of the Immunological Institute. ... , in order to preserve strategic production, to maintain jobs, but above all, those of the most professional staff and the creation of new jobs for the most educated young people who do not have to bag around the world for their professional progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to mention, in January 2014 the city of Zagreb and Mayor Milan Bandic proposed and submitted a letter of intent to ensure the long-term sustainability of the Immunological Institute. The SDP government then declared the initiative a populist measure by the mayor of Zagreb. As Mayor Milan Bandic, we also believe that the city of Zagreb believed that the Immunological Institute was a society of special interest, of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, and since then until today the proposal was on the table. It did not give up, and what I am holding is a summary of the chronology of the city of Zagreb's activities in the case of the Immunological Institute. And let me just point out, regarding blood preparations imported from other parts of the world, which pose a potential risk of spreading infectious diseases, which are not otherwise present in Europe, there is no such thing as Ebola, and many others to which official blood is not tested. This is why the Council of Europe also recommends and encourages the principle of self-sufficiency, i.e. voluntary and unpaid donations of blood in which the Republic of Croatia and its predecessors. In addition, it is important to note that the Republic of Croatia is recognised for the quality of the transplant programme, and the prerequisite for the achievement of this programme is the availability and availability of blood and blood preparations as well as immunological medicines. Following this, the Commission has already submitted a proposal to the Government. I believe the government will decide on a strategic partnership between the Republic of Zagreb and the owner of the Immunological Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u78133	Thank you very much. We move to the first point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 170. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79632	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The aim of this law is to strengthen the position of persons with disabilities in the labour market and their better and greater activation and self-achieving, strengthening the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation as well as improving the system of professional rehabilitation. The current Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities entered into force as of 1 January 2014, with its full application only starting on 1 January 2015 when the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities was introduced. The application of the law highlighted the need for certain changes and additions with a view to further improving the area of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. The amendments and additions we have proposed during the first reading of this law, which are important to this occasion, are therefore, above all, to speed up and facilitate the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the professional rehabilitation process, in such a way that they are directly referred to centres for professional rehabilitation in the rehabilitation evaluation and without the need for prior training as provided for by the applicable law. According to the current law, a person with disabilities must first pass the skill process, and then the decision of the experts refers to a rehabilitation assessment at the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation which significantly slows its inclusion in the labour market. The proposed amendments allow direct referral of disabled persons to the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. On the basis of the results of the rehabilitation evaluation, i.e. findings and opinions of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, HZZ advisers, the Croatian Employment Service will receive all the necessary information to prepare these persons for employment. In addition, a circle of service providers of professional rehabilitation will be extended, i.e. it will be explicitly prescribed that the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, i.e. the ZOSI is one of the contracting authorities of the service. According to the current law, as we know, the service provider of professional rehabilitation can be the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Employment Service, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, units of local, regional self-government, centres for social care, insurance company, employer and private client. And since, in addition to the above, the service of professional rehabilitation can also be ordered by the Office of Arts, such addition of this law is proposed. In addition, the notion of reasonable adjustment will also be specified, i.e. it will be explicitly prescribed that reasonable adjustment includes job adjustment, but also the conditions and organisation of work. In particular, ensuring effective and practical measures adapted to disabled persons involves not only architectural or technical adjustments but also adjustments relating to working conditions and organisation, such as work from home, work-time adjustment, redistribution of tasks, additional training and the like. In addition, it is also necessary to prescribe the obligation to ensure reasonable adjustment and when carrying out a tender procedure, i.e. testing or interview, as persons with disabilities already face obstacles to access to the labour market at that stage. Certain provisions on the quota employment of persons with disabilities will also be specified in order to remove concerns in their interpretation and application, the quota system of employment, as I stated, has been applied since 1 January 2015 and obliges all employers from the public and the real sector who employ at least 20 workers to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities in an appropriate workplace and in appropriate working conditions. Out of the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities, newly established employers are excluded at the time of the introduction into work, and for the longest 24 months from the day of work. During the application of this law, the concept of a newly established employer and thus a period of exemption from the obligation of quota employment to interpret it differently, is therefore proposed to specify this period during which the newly established employer does not have an obligation to employ persons with disabilities, in a way that explicitly prescribes that this period of 24 months from the date of entry into the relevant register, i.e. from the day of establishment under a special regulation, if it is the bodies of the state administration. It is also proposed to explicitly prescribe that other means of meeting the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities, such as the reception of persons with disabilities to practice or rehabilitation or professional training for work, the scholarship of their regular education or the conclusion of a business cooperation agreement with protective and integral workshops and others to be considered a replacement quota. In addition, the obligation to submit a report in the amount of the accounts will be abolished by means of a JOPPD form, all with a view to the administrative discharge of employers. Namely, for those employers who do not meet the quota, neither by employment nor by substitute, the obligation to pay cash compensation is prescribed, at a minimum wage of 30% per month for each person with disabilities they were obliged to employ. In 2018, these 30% of the minimum wage amounted to 1031 kuna and 94 June. The fulfilment of that obligation shall be accompanied by the Office of Skills and, on the basis of the information provided by the JOPPD form, by which employers are obliged to submit a report on the amount of the accounts and the cash compensation, with the aim of, as I have already said, the administrative discharge of employers, and given the fact that it is possible for the Office to monitor compliance with the obligations of the cash compensation through the OIB of the employer, it is proposed to abolish the obligation to submit the report through the JOPPD form. However, it is also important to stress that the suspension of the obligation to submit this JOPPD form, which serves exclusively as a reporting system in the amount of the accounts and the compensation, does not in any way affect the system of control carried out by the Institute. The use of funds collected from the base of cash compensation will also be extended due to the failure to fulfil the quota obligation in order to ensure an even better and more effective integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market. The funds collected from this base are currently used for incentives, projects and employment programmes for people with disabilities who are necessary, but are not enough for their effective integration. Effective integration of people with disabilities is precisely integration through various professional rehabilitation services that confirm our experience in other countries. Extending the purpose of the funds collected with the basis of the financial compensation and the system of professional rehabilitation will allow for strengthening the capacities of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, as well as the introduction of new methods and techniques, which will make the overall process more quality and accessible to a greater number of users. In addition, it is proposed that funds collected from the base of cash compensation can also be used for incentives, projects and employment programmes of persons with disabilities other than the Institute of Skills are provided by other users established by the register of budgetary and extra-financial users. And the way in which the funds collected from this base are used and distributed will be determined by a special decision and by the decision of the Minister responsible for the work. It will also facilitate the conditions for obtaining the status of protection workshops that play an extremely important role in the employment of people with disabilities who are not employed in the open labour market and who need the highest level of support. According to the applicable law, the protection workshop is an institution or a company that employs at least 51% of people with disabilities compared to the total number of employees and exclusively in the workplaces. Protective jobs are jobs that require the simplest work operations and usually are carried out by people with disabilities who have identified greater difficulties in working or persons, as I have already said with the most difficult forms of disability. Practice has shown that protection workshops with such a high share of disabled persons in job protection are therefore 51% unable to carry out all jobs contracted through a replacement quota. In addition, 51% of people with job disability are difficult to achieve because of the natural casting of people with disabilities. It is also a limiting factor in the fact that there are currently not enough persons with disabilities assessed by the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation as persons employed exclusively in these protection jobs. Therefore, it is proposed to continue to maintain this basic criterion by which the protection workshop must employ 51% of persons with disabilities compared to the total number of employees while the number of persons employed in the workplaces is proposed to be mitigated in a way that is 20%. So under new conditions, the protection workshop will still be obliged to employ 51% of people with disabilities compared to the total number of employees and 51% of those 51% of 20% must be those in job protection. In this way we retain the Institute of Protection Jobs, prevent discrimination against people with the most difficult forms of disability, but we also take into account restrictive circumstances in the business of protection workshops. In addition to the above-mentioned amendments and additions proposed in the first reading of this final draft law, it is further proposed to re-arrange the issue of the establishment and operation of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation. Unlike the current legal arrangement according to which the Centres for Professional Rehabilitation are jointly established by the Republic of Croatia and the units of local or regional self-government, the final proposal of this law proposes that the Centres for Professional Rehabilitation be established exclusively by the Republic of Croatia. Compared to the already established centres for professional rehabilitation in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, it is proposed that the Republic assumes full founding rights over these centres. Namely, an analysis of the work of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation has identified several key problems that have led to an unequal and unequal position among centres, from different support from founders to different salaries of employees, insufficient spatial capacity, etc. Therefore, in order to improve and even the position of CPRs with units of local and regional self-government, the cities of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek-Baranja County, an agreement has been reached on the acquisition of founding rights over centres since 1.1.2019 in order to ensure sufficient time for the adjustment itself. Since units of local and regional (regional) self-government have shown interest and willingness to contribute to the future work of the centre, regardless of the transfer of founding rights, it is proposed that they have their own representatives in the administrative councils of the CPRs. The Centres for Professional Rehabilitation also become budgetary beneficiaries of the state budget and the funds for their work will be financed from the dedicated revenues paid from the basic fee due to the failure to fulfil the quota obligation as already explained. By taking over founding rights over centres and strengthening their capacities in terms of adequate space, sufficient numbers of experts, setting up mobile teams for better accessibility, etc., we will provide all necessary conditions for further development of a professional rehabilitation system that plays a key role in the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. In the final draft of the law, certain amendments and additions to the provisions governing the right of advantage in the employment of persons with disabilities have been made. In addition, it is also proposed to explicitly prescribe that this priority in employment does not apply to employment through public works measures. As a newspaper, the right to advantage is also introduced, the right to take advantage of employment when filling job openings through an internal ad. Therefore, even in cases where a public tender for employment is not opened, the job openings are filled through an internal ad, employers will be obliged to give priority to persons with disabilities under equal conditions. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the aim of these amendments is to complement the final proposal of the Law on Persons with Disabilities to strengthen the positions of persons with disabilities in the labour market, strengthen the CPR, the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and improve the very system of professional rehabilitation. We are convinced that the proposed legislative solutions will contribute to better and more efficient integration of people with disabilities into the labour market and thus to the realisation of their working and personal potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79633	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. The first one is the respected representative of Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79634	... I thank you for the opening argument, I believe that the final proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of persons with disabilities is a major step forward in strengthening human rights for persons with disabilities, especially as regards labour markets. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We have heard the past years of the syntagm which has also been used in the political space, which is a perfectly legitimate society of equal opportunities, however, I think that it is necessary for all those responsible in society to really realize this society of equal opportunities, to give an opportunity to participate actively in the society of people with disabilities and to involve the whole community, therefore from children, young people to adults. This reduces the feeling of isolation, the rise of feelings of value, and the desire for self - expression. So here's my full support for these amendments and additions to the laws that will certainly contribute to a better feeling of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79635	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79636	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here is really short to draw attention once again to the good aspects of this law, above all, to the necessary need for the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. What happens, of course, in practice, is that many companies usually decide or take external contractors, so what we talked about associations or certain communities that employ over 50% and 51% of disability to meet norms or pay penalties because they simply say it makes it easier for me to pay these 1,031 and 1,032 kunas than to hire a person with disabilities, and that is why this amendment to the law regarding professional rehabilitation actually comes to terms because I think that we will make it possible for a broader aspect of employment and in fact to all those who are enrolled in the eyewitness to get their job in a quality place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79637	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79638	The esteemed colleague Curaj, therefore, should once again point out that the quota itself can be fulfilled in several ways. First of all, it is the employment of persons with disabilities in companies who have 20 or more employees, so 3% of them, then the replacement ways, the replacement measures, then by paying the fees and by combining all the three measures that I have stated. All of this is considered to be the fulfillment of quota employment. As for the replacement measures, they are indeed the fastest relative to the EU member states in the Republic of Croatia, the widest range of substitution quotas from scholarship to student employment, to student practice or participation in rehabilitation, to business cooperation that can be business cooperation with people with disabilities who are self-employed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79639	Thank you, thank you very much. Here, before we go any further, I suggest we welcome the students of the Technical School of Pula who came to the gallery to see us. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79640	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored State Secretary with Associates. The quotas have achieved results and well that they have been introduced in the long term, however, surely they will not have such results in the future, in the short term they have done so. I'm in one awkward position because as a representative, I can't stand the amendment to this bill now because it's not in the works of those amendments that you've proposed. In fact, it would be appropriate to consider amending Article 11 of this Law. When we talk about self-employment of persons with disabilities, this lists the establishment of a company, the establishment of a cooperative, the establishment of an association. Of course, the performance of the crafts and paragraph 7 says that the activities of agriculture and forestry are carried out. I may not understand it very well, but I would like it to be a strict establishment of the OPGs, I think it would be a good incentive for people with disabilities because it concerns their families because regularly, except for the very person and the whole family living in poverty, it should think about it and maybe go with the government amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79641	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79642	Dear and esteemed colleague Žagar, therefore, in practice and now enables the establishment of OPGs related to persons with disabilities. You have also indicated an increase in the number of disabled persons, which is a good outcome of this law, concrete data show that 3 366 people with disabilities were employed in 2017, which is an 18% increase compared to the previous year. In 2016, 2,853 people with disabilities were employed, up from 9.18%. In 2015, 2,613 employees were employed, which is 39% compared to the previous year, and compared to 2013, an increase of even 50%, so that the outcomes are good, so that they can be better, they can also make these changes and supplement them so that people with disabilities have a better position on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79643	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wonder if you have information about the situation, as an example, our government should be an example, in quota employment by the ministries? I am, in fact, twice during Prime Minister Oreshkovic and now and now the current prime minister, and in fact, in this sense, one letter in front of our Health Committee, to encourage ministers to think about this quota employment, and the other is, I am sorry that you did not respect and comment on the Ombudsman's objection to persons with disabilities, because we have a very often situation for people to apply all the documentation on disability, but they do not actually call on this right and actually come up with, in some way, a strict grammar interpretation of the text of this Law and then people actually apply all the documentation, everything is fulfilled, but since they did not get their right and called on, they are excluded from the competition. I'm not personally talking about disability, But I also didn't agree to the evidence, I can just finish, and I've submitted proof that I'm part of the Homeland War, but I haven't called for that right, and I haven't been admitted to the competition, and since it's about disabled people, that would be important. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79645	Thank you. Please, let's stick to time. Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79646	Dear Mrs Strenja-Linic, therefore, regarding the obligation of quota employment in the ministries should first and foremost be said that all meet the quota in a certain way. Once again, I will remind you that meeting the quota is not only about hiring people with disabilities, but also about the replacement measures that are very large and which I have cited earlier, paying compensation, as well as the combination of all three measures. So all ministries meet in a certain way, through a certain modus quota employment while here it should be stressed that the Ministry of Demography, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior meet the quota obligation by hiring a prescribed number of disabled persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79647	The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79648	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, State Secretary, representatives of the Bureau. So, I would be, so you yourself have said that the aim of the Law itself and this Law is to increase the number or encourage employment of persons with disabilities, especially in the open labour market, and thus employers themselves should be encouraged through this Law to employ persons with disabilities. You also mentioned the substitute quotas, so I am expressing actually one doubt that in fact this law will be innate to what you said for the simple reason that the lawyer mentioned that no good analysis of this previous, outcome of the Law was made, because, in fact, the employers decided mostly on the cash compensation instead of employment, and that very little benefit was made for the replacement quota, in particular they agreed, very poorly on contracts for business cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79649	Thank you. The answer of the respected Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79650	Dear Mrs. Alfirev, then, above all, I think that we should continue to work on public sensitisation, especially employers, regarding the employment of people with disabilities, and I think that our society needs to do so on a continuous basis. As regards active employment policy measures, and relating to persons with disabilities, and there has been a shift in the sense that people with disabilities still have greater incentives and up to 75% of gross wages financing and can also combine measures in terms of and public work, afterwards support for employment, combine with education, therefore, in terms of active employment policy measures, a broad framework is really given by a person with disabilities to benefit from.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79651	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79652	Thank you very much. So here in practice is often the impression that our economies are against paying a fee for a replacement quota. It is about those employers who, because of their economic activity, cannot employ a person with disabilities because of the very weight of production. However, in any case, they are not against persons with disabilities, but are against all the administrative procedures necessary in that case. That's why I welcome the abolition of this... The patterns we sent from month to month, and in fact, the situation hasn't changed, and that's why it's good that it's been lifted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if you can tell me whether he will be abolished by the very power of this Law or if a special regulation is yet to be adopted regarding it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79653	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79654	Dear and esteemed colleague Makar, therefore, by the very power of this Act he will be abolished and according to the OIB employer will actually be monitored all data. As regards compulsory quota employment, it should also be said that the bonds which, employers who meet the quota by hiring persons with disabilities that on 31.1. of this year, there were 1212, those who employ below the prescribed quota, but to a proportionate extent, by combining those measures, pay cash compensation, there are 673, bonds that exclusively fulfil the obligation to meet by paying a cash fee, they are 2603, and all of them are employers who are bonds of quota employment of 9997 who employ a total of just over 10,000 people, and of them are 500ths in job protection. So, in the protection workshops.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79655	Thank you and the last replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79656	The Secretary of State, according to the Ministry of Labour, has more than 1/3 of the debtors, who did not meet the obligation quota during 2016 and in 2017, or the payment of the proportion of the cash compensation, neither by employment nor by paying the cash compensation. I would like to know what the Institute for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is doing to collect that obligation from employers who have failed to meet the obligation quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79657	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79658	Dear colleague, Mr. Hrelja, therefore, once again, I believe that you agree that we must continue to sensitize both the public and, in particular, employers in order to fulfil our obligations to employ persons with disabilities and I believe that it is the duty of the entire society. And about what you have stated and what with employers who neither pay nor hire, I believe that you have seen in the very changes and additions of this final proposal, that when it comes to what is really real and exists, then the administrative procedure is being initiated. And then a solution is issued that has the weight of an executive id. However, in order for this to not happen, because it really is not the goal, I think it is necessary to act preventively, which is in terms of continued sensitisation of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79659	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yes, well-respected Ines Strenja Linic, president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79660	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, and I would like to welcome another representative of the Ministry of Arts. So, the Health Committee held its 43rd session this morning and discussed the final proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 15 March 2018. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The applicant's representative explained in the opening statement the reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of laws stemming from certain ambiguities and indetermination observed during its application, which will also improve the legislative framework for facilitating the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the process of professional rehabilitation and their employment. Compared to the differences between 1st and 2nd reading, by the final draft of the law, the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation established exclusively by the Republic of Croatia and the founding rights and duties on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will carry out through the competent labour ministry. By taking over the founding rights of the centres for professional rehabilitation in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split, in accordance with the agreement reached on the acquisition of founding rights from 1 January 2019, their position will be leveled, the centres become budget users and the funds for their work will be financed from the dedicated revenues paid in... compensation for non-compliance with the employment obligation of persons with disabilities from other unintentional incomes and receipts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The committee members supported the adoption of this law in the debate, believing that their amendments and additions would adequately regulate this area, in particular taking into account the existence of so far numerous problems, which, among other things, stem from the way and the quality of artificialry, which will certainly improve from now on. Therefore, after that debate, the Committee unanimously supported and tabled the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79661	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDS, HSSLS and HDSSB, will speak for the Honorable Representative Goran Dodig, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79662	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state with his associates. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The HDS Club, HSSLS, HDSSB, supports this bill and holds that it is a good, significant step in resolving this problem. But I need to problemise, not this law, because it is indeed a big step, but otherwise, an atmosphere in society and not only in Croatia, in which such laws are passed in which the atmosphere in which such a problem is treated. And that radiates when it comes to this, we can look at it with two aspects, from the aspect of the labour market, where we hear that people need to be prepared for the labour market and for the market in general. A market which has one character of the financialisation of society in general and disability as a specific concept that occurs in an individual and in a small individual, where we have an increasing number of people with disabilities working with physical damage and how to reconcile these two facts. How do you coordinate that? It's a question, which I don't think is the subject of right now, because I'm saying, he's good, but in the future, it's going to be a big, big problem. And I'm saying, it's not just a problem in Croatia, it's a problem, I'd say, at a global level, the more developed the country has legislation that protects disabled people but also has a market that produces more people with disabilities, the market as such. I know they're not adequate examples and it's hard to find them, I don't want to talk about the most difficult examples, but disability as such is characterized by the elements of the minority in society. So we have learned to talk about minorities only when it comes to certain things, but we are not talking about a minority that takes on all dimensions of a limited group of people who must fight for their fundamental rights that are right to work, the right to live, the right to dignity, the right to adequate evaluation of their work, etc. The disability can be innate and acquired, finding the right measure of how to recharm it with these demands of modern society is not easy. Here, for example. Try and in this law it is that employers are in some way forced to participate in making disabled people feel better in a way, so we say if they will not hire them they are obliged to penalize them to pay so much and so much. It's a good idea, I don't see a better idea right now, but I wonder if it's something long-term that needs to be pursued and how to set up or develop one consciousness of an empathy that's gone missing in society, that's gone. So it's rare that an individual thinks that one day he might become disabled, rarely who. It's something that's become a philosophy of selfishness where we live in a general rule, so everyone thinks it can't happen to him. I'm going to give an example of myself, about a month ago I was in one of the banal surgery and in a kind of anesthesia where my lower body was dead I realized all the weight psychologically, socially, not to mention these other elements that meant it. I realized what it means to be in a wheelchair, which means to be powerless, and when I think about it then every society that thinks it can handle some sort of compensation is a bad society. Every society that thinks it can punish someone, it's clear to me that if someone in the quarry works so that they can't hire a disabled person in difficult jobs, but in the CNB they can hire a lot, in the administration they can hire a lot of disabled people. So what do I really want to say about all this? A way of life, a way of working produces people with disabilities, and then the state needs to intervene to help them in this way. This is an example where we have to imagine how to create a truly human society or seek that human society. We're coming up with a situation where we can organize a state so it doesn't be limited to any contracts, international, commercial and similar where the market is going to focus attention, so be it, but it also has to be in the focus of man's attention, and most of all, a man who's somehow disabled on this or that basis. When you look at a few disabled people and their ability to organize themselves, it is much less than the possibility of people who are involved in protecting Pancic's fatigue. I don't think it's Pancic's fatigue, I mean I don't underestimate it, but this is about people. And where a man ceases to be a man to another man who is disabled, the whole purpose of society as such ultimately ceases to exist. So this law I welcome, this law is a big step, but let's try to think this way, let's try to understand people who are in trouble, and even when they get a job, even when they're being burdened. Those who are fortunate to have no such problem would have to share it with those who have it. So from this perspective from this pay phone on behalf of the club and these parties that I said I support this law, but we're going to try to do one more thing besides supporting this law to bring this law to life as much as possible and what's important is the principles of this law and this part in some way harmonizes with other laws that also interfere with this issue because if this only comes down to the Labour Act, then we haven't done much. This should actually be in a certain sense the state philosophy of the organization of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79663	Thank you. The next club representative of the HSS in the name of which the respected representative Ana-maria Petin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79664	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the secretary of state and the representative of the ministry. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities aims to facilitate the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market and I believe and I sincerely hope that no one has anything against it. We from the Croatian Peasant Party welcome absolutely every, even the slightest incentive of persons with disabilities to independence, to education and of course to inclusion in the labour market. And exactly direct reference to the centres for professional rehabilitation, to the rehabilitation evaluation, without the need for prior skill, is certainly one of these incentives. I am pleased that we have all come to realize together that reasonable adaptation involves not only architectural or technical adjustments but also adjustments relating to the conditions and organisation of work. I also hope that this new reasonable adjustment implies and conducts the tender procedure of testing or interview precisely because of the specificity and different types of disability that Mrs Anka Slošnjak's attorney has warned earlier. But what bothers me about the situation on the ground is quota employment, which has already been a lot of talk. There's a problem that I can see, and this proposal hasn't been taken into account either. Quatern employment from 1 January 2015 obliges all employers from the public and real sector who employ at least 20 workers to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities and data from the Croatian Employment Service that you have been carrying out, in appropriate working conditions, confirms the success of these measures. During 2015, a total of 2613 people with disabilities were employed, almost 40% more than in the previous year. In 2015, 10% more was employed than in the previous year, and during 2017, a total of 3366 people with disabilities were employed, which makes employment increases for people with disabilities 18% compared to 2016. When we look at it, the measure must be successful. In addition to the employment of disabled persons, the amendment is that the quota obligation can be met, according to this new proposal, with the replacement quota which is certainly welcome. By receiving persons with disabilities to practice, rehabilitation or professional training for work, the scholarship of their regular education, the conclusion of a business co-operation agreement with protective, integrated workshops and certainly at the Croatian Peasant Party Club. But we're getting into trouble, and that's what's bothering me. For employers who do not meet the quota, neither by employment nor in a substitute manner, a payment obligation of 30% of the minimum wage is prescribed for each person with disabilities due to employment, which is 1031 kuna in 2018. According to this new proposal, only newly established employers are excluded from the obligation of quota employment in the time of introduction, and this is specified by this means for the longest 24 months from the day of work, which we also welcome that it is finally defined. However, other situations should be taken into account, which is a natural outflow and persons with disabilities, as well as other working people in the Republic of Croatia and the fact that there are currently no in certain areas, in certain institutions, sufficient persons with disabilities assessed by the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation as a employable person, i.e. working capacity. And believe that there are entrepreneurs on the ground who, with their best wishes, are unable to meet neither the quota nor the replacement obligation. Especially when we talk about Slavonia, the devastated Slavonia, every man, every worker, but every entrepreneur is extremely important. We and entrepreneurs want to help, we want to keep them, and I'm afraid sanctions are not the solution to that problem. Employers already have many benefits for the employment of people with disabilities, tax breaks, subsidisation of salaries, that's also good, but let's give them even bigger. Let the state get them even bigger because we don't think the solution should be transferred to employers. As I said, there are certain areas on the ground in Slavonia where there are people with disabilities in the Institute's records, but with a very large percentage of disability that are not working, which do not appear to be ads, which are not in the system and entrepreneurs who are struggling to survive anyway, pay for the penalty because the legal regulations are not able to meet. Why didn't this law give opportunity exactly in these situations? I don't want this debate to be misread, I don't want us to turn out to be on the employer's side because it's not our intention. We support quota employment that has been proven to produce fruit and I will repeat and support and personally fight and I will fight for the inclusion of people with disabilities in society at all levels, but we must not all look black or white. Support for the employment of people with disabilities always and certainly without compromise, but support and entrepreneurs who fight and who fight daily in Croatia from day to day, and I do not think that people with disabilities are the problem of not misreading me but of the laws that are passed in this form in which they are brought. And I will repeat to the end that we are in the HSS right now welcoming everyone, even the slightest incentive of people with disabilities to join the labour market. And for that very reason, the HSS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79665	Thank you very much. The next is the HDZ MP's club on behalf of which Ljubica Lukacic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79666	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I am so very comfortable listening to a subject like this about a person with disabilities talk to my colleagues, my colleagues before me. I am extremely pleased and express my satisfaction that all clubs will probably support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. As the State Secretary pointed out, it was necessary to enter into amendments and additions to this law. Since 2015, to date, some things have simply not worked out. People with disabilities, I have to admit, were extremely pleased when this law came into force but some things in 2014 and 2015, when we did not solve quota employment in the best way possible. I am sure that these changes and additions will finally bring this law to life with full lungs and will enable people with disabilities to work easier as their goal is finally. Certainly, the goal is to identify as many employers as possible the idea of hiring people with disabilities. Unfortunately, we still have employers today who don't think about it at all. Many say that they know very little or have no idea, but I must say here that it is personally hard for me to believe in such ignorance that the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, that the institution of art, that the Association of OSVIT, that all alliances and all associations of people with disabilities have held countless gatherings where we were just talking about encouraging employment of persons with disabilities. And about that famous quota employment. So if you can't hire a person with disabilities or no disability, there isn't one at your employment office for me it's just amazing I can't believe that one employer can't use any of the substitute quotas, you have to deal with it a little bit more. But fortunately, our institution of art has a wide range of experts who are willing to give employers a wide range of explanations in order to facilitate the employment of people with disabilities. All these changes, in these amendments and additions to the laws as I have said, will facilitate the employment of people with disabilities. I'm personally glad that employers are one part relieved. The notion of reasonable adjustment is something that we expected and what has happened in some ways to allow people with disabilities to have, I would say the same conditions, so a reasonable adjustment will be achieved. As for the relief for the creation of protection workshops, 20% of protection jobs are a relief, and it will certainly enable the protection workshops to function better and better, although somewhere in the future I expect that all jobs where people with disabilities will work will be protected jobs at these times still not possible, but I am sure that we will solve that in due course. Do you know that there is only one integral workshop in Croatia? It's Hedona, chocolate from the Cross. There's another one in preparation that hasn't been established yet, but we expect a very soon-to-be establishment, just as an integrated workshop in Koprivnica, which, if God does, will produce a pasta made of nettle. That's two, that'll be, so, when this one's established, two small workshops doing a big job. They as well as the protection workshops should be able to place their products on the market in the Republic of Croatia, because it is the only way they will be able to hire people with disabilities. Furthermore, as regards the employment of persons with disabilities, I must point out that the protection workshops, therefore, under special conditions, that the protection workshops, here they could hardly wait, to discuss and bring these amendments and to supplement the laws, and I must tell you that several of them called me before this debate and asked whether it would finally be over today, because these 20% will make it easier for them anyway, to make it easier for them to function. Something that was raised as a question, and was asked by the D.A.'s attorney for people with disabilities is a working assistant. The matter of a working assistant has not been resolved by these amendments and by the additions of this law, however, it is agreed that I, too, expect the ministry to proceed immediately after the adoption of these amendments and the additions to the adoption of sublegal acts that will be more consistent with the law, so that we can try to resolve this issue in these sublegal acts. Similarly, the question of associations that perform personal assistance services, I believe that this will solve the sublegal acts, because simply, those associations, I am talking about associations of persons with disabilities, therefore, exclusively about them, and they are doing personal assistance services or other services, so they are obliged to employ a large number of assistants. They must pay compensation, because simply, they do not have the means of employment, nor do most of them have the possibility of hiring disabled persons. Here, in some kind of conversation, I think we agreed on that, too, that we would solve this problem. The HDZ Club, respected Madam State Secretary, will give one amendment to Article 5 of the amendment and addition of this law. It is a clean nomotechnical matter, which is that when we regulate the obligation of quota employment, persons with disabilities, in art. 5. It says, the employer can fulfill that obligation by hiring the prescribed number of people with disabilities. We think he should write here so he has an employee prescribed number of people with disabilities, since when an employer hires a person with disabilities, he can only then report it as an eyewitness. So we assume that this will make it easier for many employers to understand, which would certainly confuse such a formulation as is now in the law, as I said, that persons with disabilities can register with persons with disabilities only after the employer employs them. And one thing that seems to me, like, perhaps most important, I'm not going to say is that it's important, but it's very important, so that this law can be implemented at all, and that's in art. 26. we change Article 37 of the current law in a way that allows the Institute for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to determine disability. We have never had this before, in this way we expect that finally, in the Republic of Croatia, they will know who those persons with disabilities are, and who those with physical damage are. In view of this, we need to comply with all our regulations, given that, we will also coordinate all rights of persons with disabilities. I am sure that the Institute of Art will finally become one institution, which will have the character of the Pension Insurance Office or the Institute of Health Insurance, so, one state institution, to which you will be able to lodge a complaint, unless you are satisfied with the assessment of disability, which is simply not possible so far. Now we're still finding physical damage and I can tell you why it's not good. Although in sublegal acts, the current, valid, applicable law, is correct, taxing, listed, which is evidence that proves disability, there are 13. It has occurred to us that in some court proceedings judges simply judge by what they read, so a solution that states that a personal insurance company has been diagnosed with 100% physical damage is not a disability. And not long ago, we had a verdict saying that a certain person, a person with a physical impairment of 100%, was not a person with disabilities. And it's about the person with the heavy, I'd say the hardest disability. Therefore, I am extremely pleased that we will finally get what we have always wanted, the art of one place and the determination of disability and that more findings and opinions will not be because there can be no evidence of disability. The finding and opinion may be a document on the basis of which a decision will be made to be a person with disabilities. From the interview with the Director of the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, I can say another such thing for me, and I believe that it will cheer all people with disabilities that we will finally know by category and who are the right persons with disabilities. We'll get it all sorted out. And here in the end, let me say more that the HDZ Club will support the amendments and additions of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79667	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79668	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. So before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. So what's important is to say the law makes some progress in this imaginary system. So he faced the last three years or especially the last two '16s. and '17. And this one in '18. the year faced certain problems the whole system and proposed measures to address these problems, i.e. in a way to improve the functioning of the system and that is what is good in this law and what is worth every support. And what I must admit here are the visible efforts of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to improve both their status and the status of the entire system to advance such as the recorded efforts of both the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. But I'm afraid for a step in professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people, this isn't enough. This is not the problem of one ministry, this is an inter-minor problem. At the Centre for Arts and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities HZZO has never referred anyone to professional rehabilitation and has never explored why long-term living in individual jobs. HZMO has such a barrier that when someone has five years of internship, they suffer in a car accident and in any case it would be very similar to professional rehabilitation to preserve the remaining work capacity, then the fees calculated on the basis of this internship, and not on some other basis, would be so small that they are totally demotive. So HZMO, which deals with this problem, is not an active participant in the construction of this system, is not an active participant or ministry that deals with social, demographic, family and social issues, so it is not active, but rather more involved but not enough, as well as the Ministry of Education, who should in some way say more about tailored programmes, something more appreciated their professional school in Varazdin which is extremely good at solving these problems and has such a development cycle that could be so well proud and could be proud of Croatia as they do and how they have created some 15 programmes of professional education and how they train people with disabilities for the open labour market. So these are some things we have but we don't usually know anything about them. Here's what I did yesterday, and I think it's great to listen to it, and I think it would in some way sensitize our employers, but also citizens to a different attitude towards people with disabilities. That's what they're called. bright examples that should always be highlighted. We have another problem, the problem at this point we have the problem of surplus finance. I remember my discussion with Minister Mrsic at the time where I was more conservative and advocated to remain a system of contributions because the system of contributions to the employment of people with disabilities burdens all employers equally because it goes to pay. He insisted that it be quota employment, of course we all supported it with certain reserves, but now the time in the third year of applying one quality evaluation of the entire system, he gave good, gave equal burden to all employers, whether all employers met their obligation properly, whether we would increase or reduce that fee, what we would do, etc. It's time to evaluate the entire system, not just from this position that we're changing the law from. I said right away at the beginning that I accept this as a positive shift, and therefore I don't leave much dilemma there. But it should be said whether it makes sense to continue to sensitize, because 2 years are quite enough, employers have to either hire or pay a fee or make a substitute quota, etc. or should it be moved to another stage, a warning phase, and in some ways certain procedures to charge for it? If it's too much money we don't know what to do, let's cut that fee, but if everyone pays it because I repeat it again, according to sources, and sources are the Ministry of Labour, we have one-third of the employers who regularly for 2 years avoids every obligation and it turns out that they, those employers who work neatly, who instead of hiring people with disabilities, are going to order protective clothing, work clothes, etc. So they took an active role that those who are good will grow donkey ears because these others go unpunished. In order to give you the sums, you need to know that in 2016, again, according to this ministry, about 188 million fees were charged, that in 2017 about 220 million kunas were charged, that they returned and purposely spent 130 million kunas of these fees and that they were in the account of 270 million kuna. We need to know what, plus what's for 2017. 110 million went away because one third was nothing, she didn't pay, it didn't go, but we didn't pick them up, or it's not in any function, which would be functional if we didn't have anywhere to use them. So, I'll answer what I think about it, I'll answer what I mean about it. I think other than the 4 centers, we're mature to have 10 centers and that should put it into some development plan of this system, it'll cost something more, but it has to be more functional. This climate, good climate should be exploited by employers and what the Croatian Employers' Association and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are doing to bring the problem closer to the employers, but also to the general public. And, of course, set up an inter-resor commission that has to do some kind of shifts in other laws so that this system that is well-imagined gets its propulsibility, so that it can give maximum effects. So, without a plan, there's definitely nothing. And then we set ourselves up after such a plan as we want to achieve, determine one position in which we will evaluate the system, and then we will definitely see how much we have managed to play the system and develop the system, then how much we will facilitate that compensation, or facilitate the burden on employers, and we will be able to assess how much they participated in the whole project. So that's how I see that system and continue to develop the system, it's necessary. Society has to be more sensitive to the problems of disabled people and there is no dilemma. We simply, if we want to be human society, if we want to be a society of social justice, we have to respect that there are inequalitys in the labour market, we start with unequal positions, and we have to help those who are weaker both in the labour market and in the overall life. So, of course, I could be petty, so I could object and even to, because this is a job, we've been hearing about nomotechnics for 15 years, any honor that the ministry has respected the attorney's remark, but, no-technically speaking, in Article 4, you can't use this reasonable adjustment in the same article for the job adjustment process and for the interview procedure and everything else, not the first thing for me is the duty of attention, the obligation of all the employers' candidates to put in the same position. The term reasonable adjustment fits me more with job adjustment, with organization, etc. But it's a question of nomotechnical experts, and that's why I advocate both now and during the debate that not today, but on Monday, it starts preparing for a new law. A law that, on the first page of Article 1, that is, the second paragraph, will have a concept, that we know precisely without any dilemma of what the concept means. The concepts are very complex, they are not uniform and it is necessary to clarify them. They're not an obstacle, and that's why I didn't make it a fundamental observation, they're not an obstacle to this improvement that was imagined through these amendments and the additions of the law, but if we're going to do the job to the end, then we have 3 things. So take care of the nomotechnics, we are now going in reverse order because it is the most waitable, but to plan the overall development of the system of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities through all centres that will cover the territory and ultimately inter-minor commission among the ministries that will facilitate, i.e. to give the subport that those from retirement can also be sent to the professional rehabilitation and that these from the Croatian Health Insurance Office can be sent to professional rehabilitation, not that this system is stricter than that of the asparagus that the first wind will break, it is simply not good. Of course, it has already been said here and I especially appreciate that there are opportunities and self-employment of disabled people and that we do not have to point out that even the OPGs can be this system of co-financing, in any case we should support. As I also appreciate from this law that the establishment, or management of all centres, has been taken over because it cannot be here without, cannot function system without standardisation procedures. In Osijek there cannot be one condition, in Split the second, in Zagreb the third, in Rijeka the fourth, there must be standardisation as well as experts, as regards working conditions and procedures unique and then quality cannot and must not be left behind. I think I've made my contribution, I find this system interesting and I've been following it for a long time, of course it happens to me that I don't remember things, or I just kind of get past them if I haven't heard or noticed, but I'm glad to always go back to this story. The GLAS and HSU club will vote freely, but it will either be abstention or support in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79669	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Alfirev will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79670	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary, director of the office and associate, assistant. So here is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Introductoryly, I would like to first mention what I think is very important that the SDP Club, as always, is for and supports all those amendments to the law or the adoption of all those regulations, all those provisions that go in favour of persons with disabilities, which go in terms of involving persons with disabilities, either in the area, any area of housing, leisure time and, of course, one of the most important areas of life in employment, in the field of employment. Especially when it comes to open labour market employment. In this case and some of the provisions of this final bill we find good, we find encouraging, to those who will facilitate this process themselves, but we also express some restraint on the issues of some of these provisions, believing that it will not result, so it will not have for the outcome exactly what I mentioned in the replica, which is that there will be a significant increase in the number of persons employed with disabilities, that is, to that extent greater than it is now, the use of some of the replacement opportunities instead of employment itself will happen. As you stated, so what you can read now is all what was previously considered to be entering self-employment of persons with disabilities is now proposed to be part of a replacement quota, but I would like to note that it seems to me, however, that, in the very proposal of this law, one quality, rights, systematic analysis that would have indeed had one broad spectrum of all the good things that have been done or achieved so far, and also precisely what should be changed and on what should be, which should actually be changed on purpose. It seems to me that this meaning of the bill is somehow done I would say it in a dictionary of construction or spatial arrangement, a pointary one change as if by the order of some investors, so in this case it seems to me that there have been some changes due to the interest of some stakeholders. In fact, I agree with what I'm saying now, and what I've been reading recently and with the recent report by the Ombudsman of persons with disabilities for 2017, I'm going to quote her that with certain shifts in this area and examples that are a positive reflection, the provisions of Article 27 of the Convention during 2017 through the address of the parties to this office, it is evident that persons with disabilities continue to face many obstacles and violations of their rights in the implementation of employment procedures and during the working life. It should be said that here are a few additional data from the employment office, so the witness on 31 December 2017 included 10 512 people with disabilities meeting the criteria but that in Croatia we have 70 107 persons with established professional inability and that still those persons with remaining working skills can be included in the world of work, but they are not included and that the system has left out this huge potential of people with disabilities, which actually means other words that relations between these numbers are really worrying, point to a number of difficulties still facing people with disabilities on the labour market. Of course, here this is not only a problem either of the ZOSs, in short, not only of the Institute or of the Ministry of Labour but also of one problem, of a significant system relating to different resolutions, so in order to solve the problem, one must include a ministry in charge of social policy, social care and education. Here we have already had opportunities to hear about the very professional through the presentations of colleagues, about vocational education, I would still say and mention, that an even greater problem when it comes to education, I would say to the one who is for special programs, which is still being held and taking place in a system of education especially in education centres where young people are still schooling for those professions that do not actually exist so that we have a large number of people with disabilities who have no interest and yet not made the one quality system of retraining or education itself, education for those interests that are currently sought in Croatia. What you should also say is that the trend, therefore, is that when you look at that statistics, that is actually the most disabled person they are actually also performing and the largest number of people with disabilities is qualified for only auxiliary occupations and are also employed in actually the most auxiliary professions. What is certainly not here I would like to emphasise, which is not resolved through this law, and it stands as a big problem and one unresolved area, which is the institution of a working assistant, which is actually spoken of by the Ombudsman, and I think it will be necessary to make significant efforts in the next period in order to make this particular institute a general personal assistant, but in this case when we talk about hiring a work assistant, really put it into office, get its own legal framework, and that every person who enters the system of work, regardless of whether she needs a working assistant in the event of a job or while performing certain jobs at the workplace and in some other secondary areas, as long as I don't have a quality solution to that institute, we'll be able to talk about really one right person with disabilities because a large number of people who haven't heard before, who haven't been involved, and could not have just one such assistant who will be available not just one single person, but perhaps the most difficult person with a job, who can't really be able to work with a job, who, who can't really be able to work. What we think, therefore, would have been preferable if we had come to this proposal of the law itself with amendments and additions going in that direction and had already made some proposals, some amendments in this way. What is mentioned here, and I think that should also be taken into account, and that is that the largest number of employers remains, so I will return to the working assistant's moment, in which case, if the state takes over the role of those who will take care of work assistants, then even the employer will no longer need to have such one and administrative one burden, if the state knows that it has taken care of the assistants who will follow the person with disabilities. Therefore, the quota obligation was nevertheless taken over by the largest number of employers as payment of compensation instead of the employment of persons with disabilities or the use of a replacement quota. And here, let's say, here, and that's the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, not one quality analysis has been made, which is why this is happening, and which is why very little has been used by substitute quotas, especially those by signing business contracts, business cooperation contracts, means that there are some figures or some things that are not very clear. What I have spoken to employers and what I have received even some, so some data from the Institute itself speak of a discrepancy where the employer is far easier and more profitable in some way to pay this payment which is about 1000 kuna, unlike using the replacement quota in a way that this amount is far, far higher, which amounts to a minimum wage plus VAT. So, as far as we're concerned, this is for the safety workshops, which is where we disagree. So, we think that this 20% reduction in job protection will not be achieved because the protection workshops are the very sense of workshops that employ people with disabilities that can't be employed in the open labour market, so people with higher disability, regardless of the type of disability they are working on, so all these jobs are actually in some way protective jobs, and therefore I don't see how improvements are going to happen, or I don't see how they're going to improve this change itself, so I think they should leave 51% because they're going in this direction exactly other measures that would facilitate the work of the protection workshops. On the other hand, I think that we should also work on an even bigger, therefore, all the measures we take and all that we do should still go in terms of hiring people with disabilities in the open labour market because it is in some way the most qualitative way of employment and it actually supports all those strategies, measures and conventions that talk about involving people with disabilities in the life of the community. What I can finally say, it seems to me that what the centres for professional rehabilitation are becoming budgetary users, so I hope that these funds that will therefore, I think, are indicated, will be dedicated funds and from the base of the cash compensation due to the failure of the quota obligation, therefore, this money that we have. I hope he doesn't all go for officers and employees' salaries, but that he will, however, focus on improving the system itself, let's say that he is heading towards the development of work assistants' institutes and other measures that will go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79671	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79672	Thank you, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, NHS Club, Liberal Democrats, we will support this final bill. We are more or less in agreement with everything, with all the changes that are mentioned and we believe that it represents in any case improvement, progress, acceleration of certain processes and with a basic intensity which means people, disabled workers, people with reduced working ability to put them into the world of work in one of these ways. On the details, the articles themselves do not have much to add, I would only like to take advantage of this time, and in short part, I remember from your opening presentation when it was the first reading, you mentioned the integral workshops, which is not in this final proposal we do not have anything in particular that we have touched or specifically talked about, however, I would like to point out purely one and practical life problem that we face in the economy, and also certain initiatives that we have taken from local and regional levels, unfortunately have not come to fertile soil and to employers themselves, and the fact is both the whole system and from the Employment Office, the Institute of Health, Pensions and so on. Probably for the reason I quote you for showing up at the first reading, that there are no more registered integrated workshops in the Republic of Croatia. I think this part, as far as protection workshops are concerned and this flexibility means that 20%, that's where you gave the opportunity to function and put into function and protection workshops, I think it's okay. As I recall, in the integrated workshops of the basic law 40% of people should be with disabilities, so just think about it and whether the part that prescribes the integral workshop should be a little in the future but would pray as soon as possible to consider, to see if a certain relaxation of certain criteria can also be made in this area. For what reason? Especially northern Croatia, dominated by the processing industry, made of metal, wooden, textile. To a large extent, as far as textiles are concerned, the shoe industry has the largest shoe factory in Europe, the labour force prevails as women. And after 30 and already 25, 30 years, especially after 35 years, no woman worker is fully retired. For the very reason it is simple jobs, technological processes are such, taking up a certain position in the work process and simply creating disabled workers with a high percentage of disability and with a very small or medium percentage of the remaining working ability. And now, finally, when that worker with about 50, eventually, rarely 55 years of life goes into early retirement or disability and there's still the possibility of staying on the labour market, what is the pension. I may say, for this very reason, to consider that part, not to say wood, too, not to say the area of forestry, it's simply the work processes that they wanted, they didn't want to admit in some way, creating disabled work. We remember both the times and the protection workshops, and here they work and there are certain protection workshops, but I think it would be more than acceptable to try not through protection but to put the focus in the future on integrated workshops, of course, and that employers who are "in their companies" through production processes are creating disabled people, that they are much more active and bindingly involved in the organisation of integrated workshops and that they are giving far greater participation than perhaps now the practice in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we testify that in certain companies, we all know very well, a lack of labour. Croatia is crying out for a particular dam for importing labour and we also have a lot of unregistered unemployed at the Employment Service which may, with the determination of remaining work capacity or otherwise, be those 60% to be included in the labour market. I think that through future changes, I believe that it will go in this direction, upgrading that as many people from the office as possible try to put on the labour market but also a large number of people who are not registered as unemployed persons to try to motivate, stimulate them in some way, and that through certain such, whether they are integrated workshops or something like that, to put on the labour market because it is much more quality, especially we will have a series of topics and pension reforms and health reforms, simply systems that now exist both in pension and health by these percentages and participation, are simply unsustainable. Perhaps it would be a small contribution in terms of the sustainability of these systems. Of course, as a protective and integrated workshops, there is a need for certain support not only in the establishment but also in future functioning, however, I certainly believe that the sustainability model could be put far more high-quality because these are people who have a far greater estimate of the remaining work capacity, of course and can make a far greater contribution both at the end and in meeting certain normatives, depending on the processes. Here, I won't be longer than clear this is an appeal, although I believe that these changes have made you think about it, but I would certainly like to try to find some moderation in the future as soon as possible, whether through the law, through some sublegal acts concerning integrated workshops, and more unfortunately, we don't have any registered ones in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79673	Thank you... The next club is the representative of that MOST independent list on behalf of which Ines Strenja-Linić, the respected representative, will speak. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79674	I welcome another representative of the ministry. Therefore, respected representatives, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities offer solutions to speed up and facilitate the inclusion of unemployed persons with disabilities in the process of professional rehabilitation, hence their rapid rehabilitation and inclusion in the sphere of society. And MOST of Independent Lists will support these changes, we will have some of the amendments that we will present to you, but we believe that the law is an improvement compared to the existing ones as we expect all that needs to be changed over time and in the next changes. So let me say it again. Persons with disabilities are not a burden but the potential of our society if we achieve good practices among other things and in employment. Also, perception of some of the high costs of adapting the working conditions to disabled persons does not stand primarily because the employment of persons with disabilities often requires little good will, and in the event of costs, employers exercise the right to return from the institution of art, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. In addition, an employer who employs a disabled person is entitled to grant and pay him, etc. That's what we've already said. So what needs to be repeated, employers get an extremely valuable and responsible employee, yet they still benefit materially from his employment. Studies carried out have shown that people with disabilities are extremely responsible, loyal, and are worth notingly benefiting from sickness. Employment of a disabled person acts very positively on her psycho-physical condition, and yet the right to work is fundamentally human right and seems to her to feel useful. Such a person can contribute to the wider community rather than being a beneficiary of social benefits. So, we have to think about how all the people who have a job capacity, and they're not just people with disabilities, they're older people over 50 and 60 years of life who are long-term unemployed, to get them all back into work. One example is tourism. So that's one of the... economic branches offering a wide range of opportunities and jobs for hiring people with disabilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, it is paradoxical that in Dalmatia right now the lowest employment rate for people with disabilities is. It's completely perceptive that people with disabilities are not able to work and need special jobs for them. So far, more than 12,000 people with disabilities have been employed, projections suggest that we can add another 5,000 to that by which the disability process is under way, and together with those recorded on the stock market, we get 25 thousand. So, I wonder what's left of the rest because when we include the 80,000 people who are disabled because of their professional incompetence, we still lack about 150 thousand people, so a quarter of the millions that are out of work in Croatia. I wonder what's wrong with them. Thanks to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and EU documents, as well as numerous internationally accepted acts of persons with disabilities, the protection and prescribed importance of their active inclusion in the labour market is guaranteed with all other members of society. As pointed out in the Convention, persons with disabilities not only have the right to live in the same conditions as others, but also have the right to participate actively in the decision-making process, on policies and programmes relating to them. However, according to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, in December 2016, I have the latest data, the Institute registered 8720 of quota employment applicants, of which 2484 are public sector taxpayers, 6194 private taxpayers, and 42 taxpayers are civil society organisations. Out of the total number of quota employment holders, only 1048 applicants fulfilled the quota obligation by hiring persons with disabilities, while a significantly higher number of them, 4060 paid their obligation by paying cash compensation. Therefore, they are 3425 bonds that may partially comply with the quota obligation by hiring persons with disabilities, using the exemption for jobs or replacement quotas, but do not pay the rest of the obligations and those bonds that do not fulfil the quota obligation in any way, not even partially, nor pay the cash compensation. That's what we heard earlier today. Finally, it should also be pointed out that about a third of employers, since I especially want to address them, who are legally obliged to hire persons with disabilities, pay compensation but the reason is not their lack of interest. In the background of that situation, there is the inability to find persons with disabilities available for work in the requested professions, which once again leads to the need to coordinate the education system with the real state of the labour market. Namely, an employer who employs persons with disabilities in the open labour market, a person with disabilities who is self-employed and an integral workshop can obtain a subsidy for each employee. In addition, for any person with disabilities in the workplace, a protection workshop may pay a salary of 75% of the base of calculation, etc. So, incentives for employment of disabled persons can only be achieved by persons with disabilities, we said, enrolled in the eyewitness, etc. So, what I would like to repeat again, I am sorry that there is no respected objection by the Ombudsman to persons with disabilities who said that it is still necessary in some way to allow it to be purely due to the strictly grammatical interpretation of the text of the law that all persons with disabilities who have supplied complete documentation, unless they have called for that right, that part is nevertheless respected and that is why we have suggested that the current provision of Article. 9, century 2. of the current law amends it in a way that it is to achieve the right of advantage in employment, the person with disabilities is obliged to apply, that is to say, to submit to the public tender any evidence of meeting the required conditions in the competition or advert, and the evidence of disability, and in fact, we will avoid whether or not they have been invited or not from the whole story. It's also a long-term illness. Our proposal will be that long-term illness after two years also require that a person be referred to professional rehabilitation and evaluation, and in particular I would stress the need and importance of continuous education of experts performing skills and on our parliamentary committee, so it is not good for the experts to recruit among acquaintances, among colleagues working within some institutions, but rather for it to be through official chambers, those who actually have public authority to carry out skills education, and one of them and the Medical Chamber, means that in this way they would have persons who would be professional, objective and uniform criteria. We draw attention to the need for an effective, highly professional and in the function of achieving fundamental human rights and citizens' rights. So, this law will be supported, our amendments will be made. I hope you will reconsider their intention to improve this law, which is in fact intended primarily to improve the status of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79675	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is the Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79676	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, a little more detail would say, what I didn't get to discuss on behalf of the club. In fact, we should not think that even before 2014, since this law was passed, we have not dealt with the problem of hiring people with disabilities. So, I remember those first ones, and I think 11 years of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities Employment. There in the main entrance was then the fund for professional rehabilitation of the employment of people with disabilities and then we had a contribution to the employment of people with disabilities. And I must admit that today, employers who will be and who are in the board of directors can protest clearly and loudly because in those 10, 11 years, they have paid an average of around 130 million kn of contributions per year, and for the purposes of employment and professional rehabilitation, about half of that amount is spent each year, and the other are budget revenues. So the employers additionally paid and fed the state budget in some way. Here after 2014, this remains in a special account, where we have today, as I said in the debate on behalf of the Club, extra money, and even though I had a dilemma when it was proposed by Minister Mrsic at the time, this may be a better story, as it allows, not perhaps, but certainly, because it allows smooth planning to develop a system of professional, skilled professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. And as I said before, I think it's a good measure that we have 10 centers and a little bit, to be more comprehensive, of course, where there is the most need and opportunity to employ persons with disabilities, whether on the open labour market, whether on the safety of workshops and integration workshops or in the employment itself. I have to get out of this place, given that I have been dealing with this problem since 2002, and I also have to show respect for the city of Pula and the Istrian County which have been open to setting up Tekop Nova's protection workshop in Pula, when the old Tekop who had 600 employees, who had been engaged in a lot of activities, failed to bankruptcy, so with one initiative that I personally signed through the then Minister Vidovic, we formed a protection workshop Teko Nova, which from 2004 until today, employs more than 25 employees, of which over 51% of people with disabilities. They're working on manufacturing protective equipment, work equipment, now they've moved on to another even fashion performance and ordering work, etc. Therefore, they also received wider business support in 2004, when they were to move to a new plant in 2013, they also received support in 2017, if I am not mistaken, when they have installed a business space and can be greatly commended, as I have already praised both the county and the city, because they have provided funds for appropriate subsidies in their budgets. But, to be honest, they make 60, 2/3 of the money themselves for their business, and it is correct that with 1/3 of the total business money the city of Pula and the county and the center, respectively, excuse me, the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation, i.e., the state level. And that's how it works. It's not great, but people don't have too many salaries, but they don't have the lowest ones and they're all these years from 2004 to today, 14 years of employment means a lot. When I have already signed up for an individual debate, I must say another dilemma, and this dilemma of mine has been going on since the time when the State Secretary was the late Mrs. Vera Babic, namely, and then today I am slowing down whether the protection workshop can be a company. In fact, I don't think that protection workshops would be a commercial company, but by the way, a profit should be made for its profits, for its owners, while the institution doesn't have to. Aprioriori is unprofitable, I say no, the company can reinvest everything, but it's kind of an unnatural situation for me and I think that protection workshops should be public institutions anyway, which, and founders can be cities and municipalities, that is, county and state. Therefore, it is a dilemma that still hangs in the air, so far I can live with it, but I would also pray, that the Ministry of Labour too little, analyses the business of all these protection workshops, i.e., companies that this company is doing, which employ people with disabilities, because it would be a sin not to help, a great sin does not help people with disabilities and an even greater sin would be to do certain malversions on them, so I warn that the ministry should do so all together under constant control. So, of course my experiences say that people with disabilities are very valuable and very attached to their jobs, that they need much communication, that they should be given more favourable conditions, that we can't force them to do normized work, but I also have to admit that they earn in view of their remaining work ability, and that they earn what they receive in the name of pay because what they do, if you look at it or have a chance to go see it, it's not quite as easy as it is. And you are always at risk of getting into these protective workshops in some way the collisions of those who are healthy employees in the same production line and those who are disabled or cannot produce adequate results. At that time, the very important role of the director in these protective workshops that I must say openly, here is what Mr. Kosčec told us yesterday that he had such a conflict in his protection workshop, which was founded by a professional school in Varazdin, then the director should tell people that there are no people, that there are no people with disabilities and that we did not do it for them, that you healthy people here would not be, therefore, immediately appeal to the solidarity of people and that it is known that this community was created because of people, because of people with disabilities and that you should be particularly appreciated. So, I'm sorry that such bright examples have so little in the public, that every word here that is poorly spoken or an unmoved word challenges so much public attention, and such good examples where people work, where people who don't, have some weaker preconditions so that they can fight for their existence, sacrifice, work, and where there are such collectives where people with disabilities are welcome and where such problems are prevented, that such more shows, contributions and such news are not in public media space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79677	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79678	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, of course we can all agree here together, and what you mentioned and about the inclusion of persons with disabilities and these examples, I just want to point out here to the public in the procedure, why, how, who actually has the right to work with that status, these are persons with disabilities that are listed in the eyewitness. And this means that they must have at least 60% of the body damage due to loss or functional lower extremity disorder, 70% of the body damage caused by loss or the same upper extremity disorder, 70% of the body damage due to hearing loss, 80% of the damage caused by any other species or 90% of the damage due to any other species or 90% of the total body damage with none less than 70%. So you'll agree a lot that these are not simple conditions and I think that that's exactly why this intensity and the proposings and us as legislators should also be at that professional rehabilitation centre in order to include the best of those persons with significant damage but of course think of those others at the next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79679	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79680	I thank my colleague Curai for your replica. Of course, in my speech on behalf of the Club of Representatives, I said that this system should be constantly improved and that promotion should also go in the direction of flexibility of these conditions or here are set up to begin with, the problem that money has enough to improve the system, it is not a problem but a good, positive situation should also lead to further flexibility of these criteria because our goal is both employment and employment and that people live on their work. I think it will come to this, but it is therefore important to determine within which time limits we must carry out the evaluation of the system or the evaluation of the implementation of these legal norms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79681	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79682	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrelja, when you were talking about how to set up protective workshops whether through companies or institutions, as one doubt, you said, and you said well, so let them be units of local or regional self-government. I just wanted to say that I don't know if you know, that a few units of local and regional self-government want to be the founder of one protective or integral workshop that I think is a call to all of us here who know something more about it, to be in some way both cities and municipalities and counties, to talk about how it's not terrible to set up one protective or integral workshop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79683	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79684	Dear colleague Lukacic, I understand very well that you've replicated me because I've met with this before. Namely, do not think that they were hoarding the city of Pula and the county to be co-founders of the protection workshop, but when we sat down and talked about the development of one end, one city, one municipality could appreciate the care that the city, that unit of local self-government or regional self-government led to its disabled people, then stories became slightly different. And thanks to the change where it is possible to order a service from a protection workshop, thanks to this law, we have come to the position that not only do utility companies have to order certain products through a public tender, but they can directly through the replacement quota in the protection workshops, which I think is a good position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79685	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79686	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrelja, you are one of the beginners of this entire system, you have worked as a person who was in charge of protection at work, you know this system and thanks to you... in Pula. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What worries me is that no new protection workshops have been established since the law was passed. In particular, what needs to be seen in the light of the fact that the working life will be extended and that workers need to be rehabilitated professionally, not waiting for them to complete a certain age and then retire because it is clear that some interests will not be able to do their whole working life and enter the age that will make it impossible for them to do the jobs for which they have been educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79687	The answer of the esteemed representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79688	Dear fellow Mrsic. I was saying in my speech on behalf of the club that the number of centres should be increased to 10, which would be optimal, and it could be decided by the competent ministry, i.e. the pardon Fund for the Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. However, the establishment of a protection workshop cannot be invented by you, you can say from one center where you need it, I think you need people who understand the problem, who understand the need to launch such initiatives, start initiatives, employers can, unions, units of local self-government that can seem to be able to get the service they need, and they can't get it elsewhere, that's this example from Varazdin, and there's a lot to learn on this example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79689	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79690	Dear colleague Hrelja. So you mentioned some positive examples that we can see in the public and it's always good to see them because such positive examples actually continue to sensitize or encourage employers to hire people with disabilities. I would say that these examples would be even more so if a person with a disability who needed it had actually had a possible institute that I had talked about earlier, it was a working assistant, or an assistant, because some people really without their assistant would hardly be able to come into a position at all, actually apply to some kind of competition, coming into a position to work or to keep a job. So a person who will be with a disabled person who will allow her to be quality involved in the world of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79691	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79692	I agree with you colleagues here. The system develops primarily on people who can do it on their own. I mean, the steps should be that, since the assistant of this employer doesn't cost us, that we understand each other, but together with a disabled person, with an assistant, can they meet the needs of an employer? It's one step, it's an improvement of the system, it's something to think about, and it needs to be taken care of. I think some assumptions have already been made, and I think we need to further develop them, or develop them. All the ways of hiring people with disabilities, all the ways of their employment, all the ways that encourage their experience that they are worthy members of this society are welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79693	The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79694	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before I go to the very core of the debate, I'd like to make an example. It's about one entrepreneur who hired a defender, an unemployed Croatian defender, that was outside his place of residence, that man had no car, no driver's license, and since the rural area doesn't have a bus and transport line, and then that entrepreneur hired another person from his place who has a driver's license so that both can travel together. This example is not related to persons with disabilities, but it is related to the subject we are talking about, which is actually creating these minimum conditions so that people with disabilities can perform certain tasks and if they are willing, then employers can do so. As a state, we have done a lot in the legislation itself, in the adoption of laws and legal frameworks and it is not only in the field of this law, but in many resolutions and out of social care, education and I think that colleague Ines Strenja-Linić mentioned, perhaps someone else, I have not heard, the most significant turn or step that we have actually made is the adoption or ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities because this convention actually tends to shift from the medical model disability to the social model and there is the problem. We have not yet achieved our goals in this work. So to start this social model, that people with disabilities who are regularly on the sidelines of society, are regularly monitored by poverty, low education, education structure, so according to data in the Republic of Croatia 63% of people with disabilities do not have completed primary school or only has primary education. The medium professional equipment has 28% and the higher or higher professional equipment has only 3% of people with disabilities. On the other hand, another information is also related to the convention that we recently adopted, according to employability, according to the employment office, 62% are men, those who are employed and only 38% of women. So this is about double minority membership to put it that way, let me. And the most people who are employed by the same data are with medium professional training up to three years. For over four years, more years a much smaller percentage. And when we talk about college, it's negligible. And, of course, without school and school, it's hard for people to hire. And what is not only for people with disabilities, in general in society, is that people with lower qualifications are more easily left out of work, they are harder to find jobs and are more exposed to that risk on the labour market. And that's one of the reasons why people find it difficult to decide on a professional rehabilitation because no one guarantees that they will get a job afterwards and that they will keep the job. I just wanted to tell you one more example, I'm not an expert like some of my colleagues and colleagues here who have been dealing with this problem for a long time, but just over 15 years ago I had the opportunity to work as an IT teacher, a technical culture with one department, they were students with developmental difficulties. The first thing I experienced when I entered that class was fear. I didn't know at the time, I didn't have enough, I had pedagogical, psychological education as a competence and I didn't have another. What we had at our disposal were scissors, chicken, something to do practically. I asked those kids at the time if they wanted me to take them to the IT room. They agreed. And what I experienced there, I was amazed. Otherwise, in information, it is so, although there are standardized procedures for finding individual tasks solutions, students often resort to unstandardized procedures and seek some creative solutions of their own. And it wasn't an exception to these kids. Why would I bring that up? Because in our education system, there is also a reform of secondary vocational education. And most of all, all respondents mention the biggest problem in high school education. Their primary school is fine but high school education is problematic because many people are educated for jobs that no one needs anymore. Of course, there are mostly auxiliary professions in these people. What's happening, what's kind of tragically tragically, is that in primary school education children stay as long as possible because they have no other way to be protected, to receive certain social transfers. These are things that we have to solve and we must not forget that we as a tourist country have a terrible potential, if we are already talking about auxiliary interests, we can hire a lot of people with disabilities in tourism and hope that better communication between our state institutions and employers can contribute to this. When it comes to ministries and local self-government units, it also needs more effort. But here's the thing that's understandable to me on the one hand is that we're talking about the problem of centralization and then when it happens, everyone is silent. I resent all the mayors, the mayors who are no longer engaged. I'm not saying that many of them are engaged, but it should be more effort because, for example, here. of children, it is devastating to remove a child from society, it should be allowed to be included in society, it means to be involved in regular education, in everything. The worst when they get away, when such children escape to institutions, it's the worst, worst form, and now, I could say discrimination even though it's at that point a rescue for those children. So on the issue of sensitization of society, identifying the problem of people with disabilities, we still have a lot to do, a lot is done, but the results can't satisfy us. In addition to this, this is very good, and you have also explained that from 2014 to 2015, it is a terrible shift due to quotas. Now, the quotas seem to be something that helps, but in the long run it won't be like that, we're going to have to come up with a lot more, a lot more than just a lot of penalization, but a motivation to both employers and institutions and ultimately people with disabilities to fight harder for their rights because they have the right to do so. They don't need charity, they need employment opportunities, and I believe they can ensure their existence, not only themselves, but also their members of the household. Finally, here to conclude this debate this legislative proposal should certainly be supported and I hope that this will not be the last change, that we will go into more changes because what appears in practice, it should be for us to say guidance. Let's say for questions, here's one of the questions that are in practice is enrolling in high school, where they have significant problems with electronic enrolment students. Then the difference between those with which individual teaching was made compared to those made according to the customized program. Often, they have a slightly higher grade than those who have done individualized classes, because there the evaluation is practically the same as in regular classrooms, and they are harder to enroll in further education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79695	Thanks to a respected colleague, we have a few replicas. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79696	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sagar, what's very important, is what you emphasized and I want to potential it's an exercise. So you mentioned the convention that Croatia also signed and which meant a quality step in caring for people with disabilities. And this law that we're making should go in that direction, but it's always a problem in law enforcement not only this but generally in law enforcement, and it's especially important for people with disabilities because we saw, according to the D.A.'s office's report, that in this last year, there were 31% more complaints from people with disabilities compared to 2016, which is not good. So all the laws that we pass need to be passed in order to ensure that people with disabilities are cared for as well as possible. And if it were better, it would mean that the number of complaints would be smaller and it would grow. Therefore, this implementation is crucial because we can pass the best law if we do not implement it does not benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79697	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for the replica. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79698	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic. So the slowness of the system is something that follows us. In 2005 we adopt the Croatian National Education Standard, 2014. The education and science education strategy and these are the documents that give us a guide what needs to be done in the future. And then in public space is mostly about some ideological recommendations instead of continuing to reform education as soon as possible because it will help people with disabilities and many people in the Republic of Croatia, young people not to leave this country. And then there's a series of problems because there's not enough consciousness, people's awareness that in this case people with disabilities have big problems. They have great problems in everyday life and what is our duty as a legislator to make it easier for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79699	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79700	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar. You mentioned the fact that I'm surprised from the profession that people who may not be at all, but maybe you are mentioning that relationship medical and social model and I'm glad that you understand what it's about. And I would like to mention in this context that in fact in our past government has been very much done to encourage the social model to solve problems and involve people with all forms of disability. What is expressing me now is one fear, and that is to be heard through the media that there is, in fact, a failure of some, say, deinstitutionalisation, and that I do not see one quality response from the restoring ministry, however, it seems to me that we are somehow back in institutionalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79701	I thank my colleague Maria Alfirev. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79702	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Alfirev. Somehow it's always behind all the money. So we saw here that we had money, and it wasn't used. And on the other hand, what you're asking isn't going to work that way, a colleague of HRELja was saying I apologized in advance I wasn't in this system, but here I was working as a teacher and some of it I saw, recognized. I don't know how many witches there are in the Republic of Croatia, some things my colleague Stranja-Linić said that when a person with disabilities sends a request for a job and sends a solution to disability she still has to call, I think these are some administrative things that make it difficult. The ministry needs to work on these things to make it easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79703	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79704	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. Dear Representative Sagar. This law is a positive step towards people without enough happiness for the disabled. We know and it is clear that employment of disabled persons has increased in percentage and absolute number. In 2014, 1877 people were employed, already in 2015. 2613 39.2% higher and 2016 higher. 2853 9.2% higher. Can you connect an increase in the employment of disabled people or persons with disabilities with current labour market conditions or labour force outflows, I think it's in correlation? What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79705	Thank you, colleague Kirin. My colleague Sagar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79706	Thank you. Dear counterpart Kirin, therefore, research has unfortunately shown that the crisis has a strong impact on the employability of a particular person with disabilities and the ability to keep a job because the crisis always affects that industry that has the least added value. So these are quite often auxiliary professions, most of all in service I think that 18% is employability of people with disabilities and of course that each crisis condition the lack or decline of the number of employees. What we in public need to be aware of is that we are disability becomes when a person with damage encounters obstacles. So at any moment each of us can become a person with disabilities. Take small children who can't reach if that light switch is set high enough then they're disabled because they can't reach, so man if some ergonomic product isn't a well-made man could in that case become a person with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79707	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Next replica, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79708	Thank you very much. So, colleague Sagar, you mentioned that everyone should have a certain sensitivity to people with disabilities. I'd say what we all need to know is that first of all, people with disabilities should want to work. Therefore, this country and probably all of you know it has taken a big, big step, which is that the personal disability is not abolished by those persons with disabilities who will get a job so that people with disabilities, of course, along with all that you have mentioned and with everything that we're talking about today, reasonable adjustment and one wish of employers to give people with disabilities the opportunity to... to have persons with disabilities come to the open labour market as well as to the protection and integration workshops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79709	I thank you for the replica of Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Before answering, I welcome the students and students of Samobor High School and their professors and professors who joined us at the gallery. The answer to the line, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79710	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Lukačić, extremely important when we talk about people with disabilities and their education that they are not passive participants in this education that even this difference from the medical model to the social model, they are not only familiar with their rights, but also with their responsibilities in the workplace, i.e. to gain competence that they can be in the workplace really competent and that they can work to earn what they need. To point out once again, such individuals do not need mercy, they need help to remove those obstacles so that they can actively participate as other citizens in these processes. What is not good, we see from these, from research, from reports, when people go to participate in the open labour market often these tests that are put before them are such that they are not in an equal position and should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79711	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, so everyone who traveled to Europe and America must have seen a large number of people with disabilities working in offices, you saw them in restaurants, in streets, in colleges, cultural events, and that's something in these societies that's normal and no one with disabilities thinks of people who are not part of society, and these people are very likely to live a normal life without obstacles. Are we going to see pictures like that in the Republic of Croatia, if we are going to have persons with disabilities who will be there for, at the post of Vice President of the Assembly, and not that we must have such as Mrs Lukacic, where she is, therefore, in a place that is only adapted to persons with disabilities at the moment. The Parliament has taken steps, but unfortunately, these steps have not been made by other parts of the system. And it's absolutely certain that this law, the law that goes after people who have a certain degree of disability, is seen in jobs, let's see in the workplace. It has been seen that the number of employers who have fulfilled this quota is growing and who clearly see that a person with disabilities is one person who may be even bigger in his work area than a person who is not disabled. It also breaks those prejudices that people with disabilities have a higher percentage of the disease, have a lower percentage of the disease. So, all these are the effects of this Law, and I am sorry that this Law goes back on the hands of employers because these changes that are foreseen here will not lead to the employment of more people with disabilities, will lead to employers being able to avoid this obligation as much as possible. So I don't understand why it started with employers breaking the reporting obligation to the JOPPD form. The employers understand only one logic, and that's one logic if they catch me in a scam, then I'll be punished, and if I don't have the ability to control, then I won't be able to meet that obligation. I'm not sure the Professional Rehabilitation Institute can be as efficient as the JOPPD pattern. And this apology here that it will be done through the OIB is, in a way, eye-smoothing because who will see for the next two or three years whether all employers have fulfilled the quota, whether I have caught all employers who have this obligation and this is something that is what, your government headed by the prime minister and the walking conflict of interest Minister Dalic is working, which is to go hand in hand to employers. But here you should not go to the employers and employers to understand that this is something that is socially responsible and something that is for the benefit of society, and also for the well-being of the employers themselves. So I absolutely don't understand, or understand, because you go to the employers' hands, but ultimately, it's going to hurt people with disabilities. Also, the provision to reduce the number of persons employed in integrated workshops from 51% to 20% is also something that will allow certain employers to work unfairly on the labour market and through this type of work to be unfair to those employers who work fairly on the labour market because the integrated workshops, the protection of workshops, have a special market status and they have certain reliefs which, with this kind of work, enable someone to have 20 % instead of 51% of people with disabilities and to hide the real activity they have, not to employ people with disabilities, but to hire somewhere else, and the aim of this law is to make it possible for people with disabilities to work in those jobs they are trained and who can. I am sorry that the secretary of state did not refer to the very effects of the law in its presentation, to see what has been done over the past 3 years, to see how far we have progressed in this area, how many new integration workshops have been established, which is with substitute quotas, and we are now expanding these substitute quotas to see what they are, how well they are founded, whether they have helped people with disabilities or helping employers themselves, so these are all the things that should have been done before going into these changes. The law itself is something that has contributed to the employment of disabled persons in Croatia, but if you look at it since 2013, the number of people with disabilities who are employed according to the Croatian Employment Service records is constantly falling. So every year it falls into percentages, so obviously we need to see what that effect is about. The biggest effect was when the law was passed, then the largest number of people with disabilities, counting on previous years, was employed. However, there is not only a problem with the law, there is a problem and education of people with disabilities, there is a problem and their skills that can be offered to employers on the labour market. So that through this law is broken and the Law on Education, the Law on Professional Education, and it is clear that this should be seen in this context. It is commendable that the funds collected from employers who do not meet the quota will be used to develop the centres of professional rehabilitation. But later on, we're only at four, and they should be at least ten, they're lying in the account, with them the finance minister fills the budget, but their purpose is not to fill the budget, but their purpose is to help people with disabilities. Especially what I have already pointed out, in light of Croatia's retirement at 67 years old, I hope the Government will be smart and leave it there in 2038 that it will not listen to the European Commission and bureaucrats from Brussels. But these funds and centres for professional rehabilitation really need to be used to train people to do other jobs after a while and to continue working instead of going to some disability pension, pension or early retirement. The funds are there, however, but knowing what has been done so far, I'm not sure it will be spent until the end. The draft law should have taken a step further, which is to strengthen the employment of people with disabilities, not to go to the burden of employers, so it is not to go to the employers to reduce the burden they have because employers are the ones who need to know that there is a different climate in Croatia than with them, which is that people with disabilities must have their jobs. And when you look at which employers meet then you see that employers who own outside of Croatia have no problems meeting the employment quota, but have some of our own. So, it was the role of this law, and with what you're doing right now, you're doing the opposite, allowing employers to even more avoid hiring people with disabilities because I'm saying, it's not the aim of this law, the aim of this law is to employ people with disabilities, and you're completely reducing that goal so that we'll have the negative effects of this law in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79713	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We have several replicas, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79714	Thank you very much. Col. Miranda, of course, the primary objective of this law is to increase the number of disabled persons, otherwise you are partly right, but yet we say to the public that 18% more people with disabilities were employed in 2017 compared to 2016, so that percentage was good. However, we cannot be satisfied because the employment of only 6600 people with disabilities is of a total number of 243,000. And what you said couldn't be the purpose of punishment, yet it should be said, which, of course, is not good, back in 3 years, employers who failed to comply with the legal obligation paid 350 million kuna fines. In my opinion, it is one fact that indicates that the law is being played and that everything needs to be done to prevent it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79715	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for the replica. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79716	When I talked about the number being reduced, I refer to 2013 and 2014 when the percentage was 39, or 39% more people who were employed, therefore this is the number we should constantly support, and not that we are now boasting that it is 17 and 18% because it is an absolute number, what you said to your colleague Jovanovic is true. So we have a large number of people with disabilities, and our number is still as small as it should be and that's the point. Easy to boast now is 17%, 18%, but I'm saying, the goal of this law is to hire people with disabilities and we care, except for the percentage, absolute numbers, and they're devastating. As it is devastating and that so much money has been paid into that account, I would be happy that there is no kuna in that account at all, that means that employers meet their obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79717	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79718	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Mrs., you know what I'd say now, but I don't have that kind of time, so I could replicate everything for you. First of all, you're worried about the facilities of the Office of Art. Just remember what you left them like as a minister, only now did they rise a little thanks to this government and the minister who simply let them breathe. Another thing, a fee, which you now call punishment, so that's what you've passed in law. And we think she's good, I don't think she's bad, but don't say that's punishment. The Institute of Arts has now begun to function, and as far as art is concerned, that's the most important, three years of collapse in art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79719	I thank my colleague Lukačić, the answer, my colleague Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79720	Dear colleagues Lukačić, you forget who was in power in 2016, the government of Tomislav Karamark and Oreskovic, when Minister Šikic wanted to abolish this Institute. So, just because it was a World Bank loan, that didn't happen. And you were also, to get the art of returning to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, there are your discussions, so remember what you were saying back then. Therefore, do not accuse what happened before. When I was talking about capacities, I told you about the capacity of control, and the reason why I think it is because through the JPPD form and through the IRS it can be very easy to control and there is no need, only if you want to hire more people in the Croatian Institute, therefore, in the Employment Service, because it is obviously your style in HDZ, that you are now hiring on all sides, so naturally you will then hire another 50 people who will control the papers. But again, your Minister Šikic and you were in favour of abolishing the unique body of art.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79721	I'd like to thank my colleague Mrssic. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79722	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Mrsic, it is not disputed if it is favoured by employers in the sense that they have stated, as the Proposer has said, that they are relieved to reduce administrative procedures. But the question is, which I don't understand from yours, if it's done from your exposure, if it's done, so they don't have to pay for it, it's not really a reason whether they paid or not, then it's controversial. And when we mention the protection of the workshops, we don't need to forget, you made an observation about those... So far, there have been 50% job protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why workshops can appear in the public procurement process and will not be a good message, if any employer wants to abuse it, in such a way as to favour public procurement, it will not be a good message, however, if such a provision succeeds in increasing the number of protection of workshops and increasing the number of people with disabilities, despite the lack of protection of jobs, then success will be achieved, however, we will only see this unfortunately in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79723	I thank Mr. Sagar, the answer, colleague Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79724	Comrade Žagar, you have precisely allocated 2 problems, which this law will make, one is that we will have employers who will avoid the quota, so they will not hire persons with disabilities, but they will not pay, because there is absolutely no staff capacity to control it, and through the JOPPD patterns is all over the computer automatically, therefore, there is no need to hire so many people now, possibly HDZ wants to hire even more people in the office, so well, that's something they should have made clear. And secondly, as far as protection workshops are concerned, exactly and I warn all the time that a part of the employers will simply use this to employ 20% of people with disabilities, not in their basic business, but elsewhere, therefore, in some auxiliary activities, and that this will lead to unfair competition for those who do not have it because they will have an advantage in competitions both in the EU and in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79725	I thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79726	Dear fellow Mrsic, there is no need to go to Europe to see how disability works. Enough to come to Rovinj, to Martin Horvat Hospital, where the Austrian uf, and you are in it... at those meetings of the Alps-Adriatic, he takes care of his though disabled work, therefore, they are, which does not mean that they stayed at work, but during a working relationship, but under,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Insurance, they have an annual recovery, a week, two weeks, to maintain their ability to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's something we can see here. The second thing I wanted to replicate in 2016 was a large number of disabled persons who had just entered the eyewitness. So it should be kept in mind, because it's the first time, that they're registered in that way. And in order to do more, I agree with that and that the evaluation of the law should be carried out at all times.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79727	I thank my colleague Hrelja, the answer, my colleague Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79728	Thank you very much, yes, when we talk about the number, then we're talking, one percent that we're boasting about anyway, but it's an absolute number issue and it's absolutely unsatisfactory. It's better than it was, but it's not compared to the number of people with disabilities who are therefore not employed. And when we talk about this example, then the government could have had one more step through this, which is that in these companies, which are working intensively, where they know that tailors or I don't know in the Uljanica, shipbuilding, that they know that these people will no longer be able to have the effect of having someone who is younger, that through the system of these protective workshops and professional rehabilitations these people will stay working but, that they are financed from these funds that are in this account and that it goes directly to the worker, not the employer. To say, the employer pays one sum and another 30% of this fund because you no longer have the opportunity to do what you did when you were young. And it was supposed to be in this law, but it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79729	I thank you for your response, Mrsic, we have the final word, the honorary secretary of state, Mrs Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79730	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, above all, thank you for a very focused and constructive debate. How important to the Government of the Republic of Croatia are persons with disabilities and attitude towards them and the improvement of their status clearly demonstrates the personal example of our prime minister whose seat in the Croatian Parliament is precisely Mrs Ljubica Lukacic. The government of the Republic of Croatia, I repeat these changes and additions to the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, wants to improve the system of professional rehabilitation and speed up and facilitate the employment of persons with disabilities. A clearer definition of a reasonable adjustment stemming from the convention, which was mentioned during the debate, thus the 2008 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, has been ratified. A reasonable adjustment to this teaching is a syntagma that must be detailed and precisely elaborated and what has been done with these changes and additions in a way that reasonable adjustment does not begin and does not end exclusively with architectural or some kind of construction work, we are now talking about entrances to buildings, etc., but a reasonable adjustment refers to many, many more other segments both to the organisation of work and to the work system and to the opportunities in which the person works, and also to the procedure of the competition itself, or to the interview of the written or oral part, where the person is figuratively told, for example. having motor skills reduced will have more time to write a written part of the exam or a person with verbal difficulties will have more time to verbalize oral responses etc., etc. So a reasonable adjustment should be really very precisely defined as it is in this law. Protection workshops, so that there are no misunderstandings, must continue to have 51% of people with disabilities, however all 51% should not be persons in job protection. So those persons who basically perform the simplest functions because they have the highest degree of disability. Now of these 51% of people with disabilities 20% refers exactly to jobs. In addition, the proposal also improves the issue of establishing a centre for professional rehabilitation. Mr. Hrelja said nicely that it was actually about standardisation and about the same position for all centres which is necessary and necessary and what these changes and additions seem to be. In addition to this, the centres for professional rehabilitation are becoming budgetary users, I stressed in the opening section where this will be financed and that these funds are strictly intended. So the funds raised on the basis of the compensation have a special position in the state budget, this year there are 212 million kunas, so it's strictly dedicated means of employment for people with disabilities and for the development of a professional rehabilitation system. In addition, the adoption of this law will give persons with disabilities the advantage of employment, which is a significant step in their employment and improving their position in society. I also believe that it is worth noting that this government has recognised the right to personal disability to persons with disabilities regardless of whether they receive pay or not, which is an additional incentive for their entry and stay in the world of work. So the aim of these amendments and the addition of laws is primarily to create a more quality system and a long-term sustainable system of professional rehabilitation that will enable systematic employment of people with disabilities in better jobs. Since there has been a talk here on employment or an increase in employment of disabled persons, I would once again like to highlight the fact that 3366 people with disabilities have been employed this year and that this is an increase compared to the previous year of 18%. In 2016, 2853 people with disabilities were employed, up from 9%, and in 2015, 2613 people were employed, which was an increase compared to 2014. 39%, and as Mr. Hrelja himself pointed out, so it's really about the eyewitness. In any case, all the positive results I think should be commended and kept on that line of growth of persons with disabilities and, of course, the trend of growth is as visible as I said. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wishes to continue this law with a positive trend in employment of persons with disabilities and to improve their position in society. What should be particularly highlighted here is the concept, so the concept is not in the same article on the same page because these are changes and complements that the concept should be a whole new law, but all expressions are explained in detail in different articles because they must be. In addition, it should be pointed out that contracts or incentives for employers paid by the ZOSI or the Institute of Arts and who held this year a tender to encourage employers in the amount of 84 million kuna that the contracts were signed at the height of 71.5 million kuna and 43.5 million for protection workshops, and 28 million kuna for the open market. So far, the Institute of Arts has paid 174 million kuna to the employers on this basis. In addition, in the new rules that will be adopted after the entry into force of this Act, the award to employers who employ more persons with disabilities than prescribed by the law, from now on their reward will be 30% minimum salary per month and it will be possible to receive it for 12 months, which is double as compared to the current situation. So the current situation is 15% minimum salary per month for 6 months and it will be changed. In addition, the rules will also change the replacement quota in the sense that so far, or even now, we have a situation to take to practice students with disabilities or students with disabilities, they need to be received 3 to replace one person with disabilities. In the new rule, it's going to be 1 to 1, and it's going to be for receiving into rehab practice. The situation now is two rehabilitators replacing one person with disability. The new proposal will be 1 to 1. Getting people with disabilities to professional training at work also, now we have two people for one, in the new Regulation there will be 1 for 1. As for the scholarship and conclusion of work contracts with regular students, there will also be flexibility and relief. In addition, I would also like to mention that, here it is also said about the Association of Persons with Disabilities. Under the rules of the Association of Persons with Disabilities will be exempted from quota employment and, of course, to rules that will only be adopted. I would also like to mention that Mrsic said more new protection workshops should be established. We all know that Mrsic, in time, was Minister of Labour and Pension System, I don't know why you didn't do it then. You mentioned the 67th year on retirement. The 67th year is the year that was brought in in 2014 as well as when you were a minister, it's no newspaper, and at the time you say we're going to retire at 67, but only 2030. That's your statement from 9/11. Regarding this whole debate, I thank you once again for the constructiveness, thank you for all the suggestions and suggestions, and I believe that this law will be maximumly supported in view of your statements during the debate, and it seems to me that it will indeed be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79731	I would like to thank Secretary of State Majdi Buric for this closing statement. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, with this Law, the aim is to improve and facilitate the inclusion of persons with disabilities in general in the social community and I will be so free and mention the example of the Association of Persons with Disabilities from Metkovic, who has been acting since 2003, which brings together 210 persons with disabilities from the entire Neretva valley and cooperates with all units and, of course, through the European Social Fund, there are several projects currently in the phase, "A woman through time", "Admission to a better life of older people", I would especially point out, therefore, a programme for the employment of women in an unfavourable position, I am not leaving this country, which, together with the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, therefore, they, except persons with disabilities, have extended their activities to the whole social community and help everyone who are in need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79733	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. Answer, Secretary of State Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79734	Dear Mr Celic, you mentioned the women's employment programme, I would just like to point out that as many as a billion kunas have been allocated for this programme and that this is the biggest competition funded by the European Social Fund, which aims to employ 7500 women who will care for 35 older and powerless citizens who are in need, so I am glad that you are well informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79735	I thank Secretary of State Buric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79736	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, obviously you're taking care of my character and work. Yeah, that's right, but then... You say this without saying it, but you need to know that we had negotiations with the European Commission at the time and that we said decisively not because what is in the law? Because it says 2030 or it says 2038? That's what you refer to. Refer to what the law says because I listen, unlike you who listen to Europe, I listen to our citizens and that's the difference between me and you. And when we talk about the rules, there's a catch in the rules, a lock 22, because you're going to cancel everything that's good that this law has brought. It's a reasonable adjustment. What does a reasonable adjustment mean? Where are the programs? What does it mean that people with disabilities will no longer have to hire people with disabilities? Hello! Associations that care for people with disabilities will no longer need to hire people with disabilities. So where is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79737	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Answer, Secretary of State Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79738	Dear and esteemed Mr. Mrsic, we know very well that you and all of us here have been quoted as saying, yes, we will retire at 67 years of age, but only in 2030 is your statement at the time you were Minister. Which is why it didn't go into the law that way, but in 2038, you know it, and I know that the reason is because your coalition partner didn't allow it. And I don't know what else to tell you, except they're ex-boyfriends for a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79739	I thank my colleague Buric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79740	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Kjelic, who urged me to praise an association, namely the Jaglac Association of Orahovica, her president, Mrs. Djurdja Šimatovic, and my colleague from school once worked together, Mrs. Lidija Stojkovic and the others, of course, have been working since 2002. Care for young people with developmental difficulties and children and, of course, disabled people. What I would like to point out to you, the State Secretary to personally place an emphasis on education because there is a high correlation between persons with disabilities and poverty, not only in relation to their family poverty, but also in rural areas where the service measure is actually poorly available where teachers and teachers complain about working conditions at school where all schools do not have the same conditions, they do not have computer classrooms and many other disadvantages to simply help these young children with developmental difficulties to get better education for the future labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79741	Thank you. Secretary of State Buric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79742	Thank you, dear colleague Sagar. I agree with you that a great emphasis should be placed on education both in general and in terms of children with special needs, i.e. persons with disabilities. We know for ourselves, you have also provided statistics that the most employed persons with disabilities are those who have completed a three-year school, i.e. medium professional training. Since we are fully aware of the educational structures of persons with disabilities, the Croatian Employment Service has placed a special emphasis on the education of persons with disabilities who can combine this measure with various other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79743	I thank you for your response to Secretary of State Buric. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79744	Dear Secretary of State, this is not a classic replica. But you've impressed me with your advocacy of medicine and purpose, interoperability, usability of terms reasonable adaptation. And I am now reporting to you from this place that when this term is so effective, I will use it in my struggle to start installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia and I will say that the government should make reasonable adjustments and stop the attack of the former government, which has not arranged a special thread for the installation of elevators and turn around and make changes and complement the operational programme of cohesion and competitiveness, open a new niche and implement the elevator program. Thank you for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79745	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Hrelja. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Majdi Buric, the Director of the Art Office Mrs. Damira Benc and Assistant Director of the Institute of Arts Jasminki Sučec, on the reasons for the final proposal for the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79746	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 170th, Proposer of the Act Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Most Representatives' Club of Independent Lists. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted. With us we have respected Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here's the secretary of state. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79747	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. So regarding this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept it. According to the current Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, there is no obstacle for a person with disabilities who is on long-term sick leave to be involved in the professional rehabilitation process. In such cases, however, it is also necessary to support the health care system, i.e. the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, which should recognise the benefits of involving persons in long-term care, in the process of professional rehabilitation and the means intended for the cost of sick leave to finance professional rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79748	Dear State Secretarys are suggesting that my associates read the answer to the second amendment, this is the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79749	Dear MPs and MPs, therefore my apologies for not hearing well about the fact that there was a lot of traffic here, so the amendment to the HDZ Club amendment, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79750	It becomes an integral part of the law. Now we're going to the Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Amendment No. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79751	Thank you. So the explanation is what I replaced, so once again I apologize for it, I'll cut it short. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment because under the applicable law there is really no obstacle for persons with disabilities who are on long-term sick leave to be involved in the process of professional rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79752	The obvious, respected Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79753	Persons with disabilities are not a burden but a potential if we achieve good practice among other things and in employment but this means that we must certainly think about people who are on long-term sick leave. And we feel that it is necessary to accept, that this amendment was needed to be adopted, that we would very much regulate the problem of long-term illnesses that ultimately require some sort of assessment of their situation and a reference to professional rehabilitation. And that's why we gave this amendment. So we think that it is necessary to refer people to some kind of professional rehabilitation, to define this amendment of ours, how we put it in order to preserve the remaining working skills, new skills and after two years of long-term illness. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79754	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment that the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 2nd of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79755	Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, according to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities of Professional Rehabilitation Services, are equally available to persons with disabilities and employees. For persons with disabilities, a professional rehabilitation service provider may be an employer but also an HZMO while for unemployed persons with disabilities in most cases the contracting authority will be HZZ. The unemployed persons with disabilities financed by HZZ already have the appropriate findings and opinions of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, so for those persons when employed, the employer will not have to order the service again. In addition, on the basis of certain professional rehabilitation services, the employer can also achieve incentives by means of which the funds invested are refunded. For example, on the basis of a labour efficiency assessment service, within which it has been established that a person with disabilities has a reduced working performance, the employer may achieve a pay subsidy and receive it as long as that person is in a working relationship. In this way, the funds financed by the employer's labour efficiency assessment service and the amount of 2400 kn will be returned to him in a few months. It should also be pointed out that the prices of the service of professional rehabilitation despite the fact that the highly specialised services are set at a significantly lower amount than the actual costs precisely because employers would be further motivated to refer persons with disabilities to professional rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79756	On behalf of the MOST Club, please welcome fellow Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79757	Thank you. The secretary of state responded immediately to my second and third amendments, but I just want to say that the perception of the high cost of adapting working conditions to people with disabilities, but also the reference to the assessment of professional rehabilitation is actually wrong, but very often we have a situation for employers to simply avoid it, thinking primarily about costs. So we felt that it was necessary to equate employees and unemployed persons and that the article should be precisely written and written, so that the minister in charge of work will enforce the conditions of application of the right to professional rehabilitation, the way of implementation, the standard of implementation of professional rehabilitation and the supervision of the implementation of professional rehabilitation, while making sure that he is equally available, regardless of whether it is an employee or an unemployed person. Since it is generally qualified in the interests of the state and the community as many persons with disabilities as possible for the needs of an open labour market or other forms of work, we believe that the service of professional rehabilitation should be equally accessible to all. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79758	Now let's vote on Amendment number two or because you've mentioned both the second and the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79759	We can talk right now on the third. The third relates, in fact, to that price that the State Secretary mentioned, that is Amendment 3. Therefore, when establishing the prices of professional rehabilitation referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article, account should be taken of the availability of professional rehabilitation services to all, whether employed or unemployed. So the rulebook has to spell it out clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79760	Thank you. Then let's vote now. First for Amendment No. 2 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Well, then let's go to Amendment 3, the same club of MPs that the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. So we're going to Amendment Four, same club reps. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79761	As regards Amendment 4, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, a valid legal solution whereby a person with disabilities is required in his application to apply for the right of advantage in employment and also to attach evidence of disability, we consider it correct because in a very unequivocal and clear way, the intention to exercise the right of advantage. Such a solution has been present since the law was applied, since 1 January 2014 and has been accepted in practice. The proposed solution, under which a person with disabilities would be obliged to apply for a tender only to provide evidence of disability, opens up the possibility for employers to interpret differently the reason why a person with disabilities has submitted evidence of disability and even the possibility of not taking that evidence into account at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79762	Here are my colleagues, Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79763	Thank you. So my amendment is on the trail of what the Ombudsman noticed for people with disabilities, which is that very often, therefore, we have a situation where some of the people with disabilities, and we actually intend to hire and contribute as much as possible, not to depend on social compensation, so to attach all the evidence of their disability, but also to call for that right clearly. So we asked, however, because we want to encourage employment, to open up the right advantages in employment, the person with disabilities is obliged to apply, or offer in a public tender, to attach all evidence of meeting the required conditions in the competition and evidence of disability. And not that yet, because you're asking for an explicit call, I personally in a different situation was that I appeared as a participant of the Homeland War, contributed my entire war route, all the days I was in the war, but I didn't explicitly call on that right, and I lost. But I'm not important, this is something that we actually need to think about, which is to encourage people with disabilities and allow them to come to a job as easily as possible and I don't think they need to, if they apply all the documentation exactly to that right. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79764	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. Thank you to the secretary of state. We move to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 120 for, 4 abstentions, were passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79766	I move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act, second reading, P.Z., No. 263. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the Agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I call on the proposing representative, Mrs. Majda Buric, the secretary of state to give an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79767	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So, before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Insurance Central Register Act. Therefore, the central insurance register or REGOS is a public institution which is primarily responsible for the conduct of the single accounting of personal account members of compulsory pension funds. An important law on the central register of insurance undertakings has regulated the legal position of the Constitution, the bodies, the operation of powers and the operations of the REGOS department, the way in which the register is kept, the reporting and use of data from the register and other issues relevant to the business of REGOS. However, one of the basic problems that arises in connection with the business of the institution is the accumulation of funds in a temporary account, which is why payments cannot be linked to debts and funds remain in the temporary account, rather than forwarding to our personal accounts of members of mandatory pension funds, and there is indeed a place for them. The draft Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the REGOS Act proposes to extend the power of REGOS and to implement the schedule by insurance undertakings of these unrelated pension contributions based on individual capitalised savings, in particular in specific circumstances, resulting in a reduction of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account and a higher amount of funds in personal accounts. In addition, it should be noted that the share of unrelated payments is only 0.46% of the total contributions paid II. However, although this is a low percentage, this amount still burdens the REGOS provisional account, and since the basic purpose of these funds is as I have said to be forwarded to our personal accounts, it is necessary to give additional power to REGOS to act in these situations in order to enable it. In addition, the draft law extends the purpose of the compensation of the REGOS to compulsory pension companies to carry out activities related to the conduct of the single accounting of personal members of pension funds and other activities and activities of REGOS relating to the conduct of the single accounting of personal accounts. It also simplifies the procedure for the adoption of the REGOS statutes and thus, in a way that no longer requires prior consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is prescribed that the statutes are adopted by the Administrative Council and confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For the implementation of the proposed law, there is no need to provide for any additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and in relation to the text of the draft law, the text of the final proposal of the law differs exclusively in the precision of Article 7(2) of which the Regulation on the connection of data on contributions to compulsory pension insurance in accordance with the provisions of this law is aligned by the Minister responsible for the pension system with the prior consent of the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79768	I would like to thank State Secretary Majdi Buric for this explanation of the final bill. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Mladen Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79769	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state, esteemed directors of REGOS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the second time we have already seen the final draft amending law and the addition of the Central Insurance Register Act which wants to solve this problem which may not seem great if you take into account that only 0.46% of the total contributions left unrelated but when we know that there are around 294 million kunas and those funds that are from one of us, or or from those people who may be ahead of retirement or should be retired, of course it is one big problem and actually important for the task and objective of REGOS to put it on the accounts of those insurance companies whose assets are actually their payers or companies, the legal persons should pay and forward it to their account and to the funds of contributions paid in the 2nd pension column to be passed on to mandatory pension funds and recorded on personal insurance accounts, which is extremely important in this process to reach their own funds, in fact, and in fact, their pensions and in fact. That is why it is also important that this proposal, which we have already made in the first reading and the first explanation, and that we accept it by the greatest work,... the procedure for the adoption of statutes, not to require the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to propose to extend the purpose of the compensation which the REGOS accounts for in compulsory pension societies and to use for certain activities, in particular administrative and technical support, maintenance of the financial system, etc. and thus actually facilitate, speed up to make the work as high as possible and to buy these funds that are now in this joint account, in fact, forward to each personal account as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, of course, the HDZ Club will accept and vote, of course, for this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79770	I thank my esteemed colleague, Karlic. Next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79771	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with an associate. This is one of those laws where there were remarks in the first reading of those that should not be in the Assembly, but also should make sure that they do not waste much time and energy through two readings because it would be justified that this could go into urgent procedure, given that it is technical changes or changes that allow faster and more functionality, but it is not up to us to determine how much reading the government will, it is up to us to do the job, and with that in the second reading we do not have much to say in relation to what we said in the first reading, so nothing important has changed until the second reading. In the first reading of GLAS and HSU, he supported this bill, he will support it in the second reading, I just need to say that he would not repeat at all what his colleague Karlic said because that is the essence of what is to be said in this law, I just want to say one of my own wishes that REGOS will master the techniques of informing users, which they have in their choice, or how they can identify which fund, rather than by other laws, that someone else deploys them into funds. It is very important that people, even if it was boring, are informed of their rights and that they make decisions on which fund they will save for retirement through capitalised savings in the 2nd pension column. I hope that both in REGOS and in the competent ministry, they will make an effort and that as many citizens as possible get quality information that they decide and not that someone decides for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79772	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Bozica Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It's about one really technical law. However, it is a law regarding how we are insured, so it concerns the payment obligation, that is, our businessmen and what I am on behalf of the club and in the first reading, has actually looked at the simplification of some of the things that made such unrelated payments happen, i.e. a large number of unrelated payments. In fact, if we look at it for 0.46%, it doesn't look like much, but if we take it for 16 years, since 2002, that's 290 million unallocated, or in a temporary account, it's a huge amount. That we're all sensitive when it comes to us, about our money, and that's true. We therefore welcome this Law, namely the granting of greater powers to REGOS, that it will now have the opportunity to connect these unrelated payments. Why is there such a large number of unrelated payments? It is a large number of unrelated payments, not large amounts, but a large number of taxpayers, as I pointed out in the first reading, when closing interest rates, or in those SNU forms that do not allow prior to sending a JOPPD form or before RESEN forms by individual closure insurance. Everything will be settled if in this section now, such as the authorised REGOS will do so because it is really about those little ones who are doing their own bidding for their 2-3 employees for the occasional employees and that and when they don't pay in time, they have a obligation from the kuna, two, three for interest and it's pulling. And now you've got a lot of those, and that's exactly why it's coming. But it's also big amounts where they haven't been delivered, so we have that part, but on behalf of the club when I had the debate in my first reading, I was just thinking about that part. But good. We'll figure it out. And this is also all that remains normal which is solved by having already over-emerged some things, which is that we have authorised the implementation of the non-linked pension insurance payment schedule of the second pillar, i.e. on the basis of the individualised capitalised savings of over 6 years for the payer who had insurance status based on carrying out an independent activity. Namely, the obligation to deliver the JOPPD forms independently for them is from 1.1.2016. Otherwise, the IRS was directly involved in this task, so in 2022 they would only be in the situation, but it is good to assume that we do not have to deal with it in particular. The club of HNS representatives will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79774	I thank my esteemed colleague, Goddess Macar. Next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's gone. The final word, on behalf of the motionary, respected Secretary of State Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79775	Thank you. So, regarding these discussions, I would like to point out that financial literacy is one of the key to solving this problem. We also know that this deals with UNFO as an Association of Pension Funds in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Ministry of Finance, etc. However, financial literacy, when we talk about it, then I think that it should really be included in certain formal, informal forms of education, as well as in the educational reform that we have talked about today in vocational schools and other segments concerning it. As for REGOS and the selection of pension funds by people who choose it, yes, it is true that only 2% of citizens have used the right to choose a pension fund and 97-99% are those who are classified in a given category, in the B category by REGOS. Given these data, it is more clear why we need financial literacy and its intensification in society, education, etc. As regards the activities of the REGOS, one of them is that soon all new employees who are employed will receive and the written notice of REGOS where they will be very clear and unequivocally informed about the possibility of selecting the pension fund, and this will soon begin the possibility of selecting the pension fund through e-citizens and that is what the REGOS is working on intensively. So it's about changing the category, but it's also about choosing a pension fund by getting a job. As regards the situation that you mentioned yourself, which is the number of personal accounts, i.e. pension funds, the situation in this segment, may just have to be reminded that the number of personal accounts of members of pension funds was 1,84 million members at the end of 2017, and of which the number in A category was the least members, since it is the most risky and most invested in shares and in that category is 5874 members of the funds, in the B category is the most members of the million and 810 704 members, and in category C which is the most conservative is 27,694 members. That's right, they're pre-retired, five years before retirement, which is mandatory in the C category, and I refer to my colleague, Hrelja. While there were 1,78 million members at the end of 2016, so in '17. The year that number rises to 1.84 million members. The growth in the number of members of mandatory pension funds continued in 2017, but also low awareness of the members, which we had just discussed, low awareness of the members involved in the independent selection of mandatory pension funds, which we believe should continue to be referred and appealed. The total net assets of compulsory pension funds on 31 December 2017 amounted to nearly 92 billion kuna and increased by 7.74 billion kuna compared to the previous year, up by 9.5% in the year. Out of the total NETO assets of compulsory pension funds, only 0.64%, i.e. The 589 million kuna makes up the assets of category A funds and 4.31% and 3.96 billion kuna, respectively, is the property of the C-category funds. Of course the largest part is right in the B category and 95%, i.e. 87.37 billion kuna in B category. In addition, I believe it should be mentioned that the personal accounts of members of the mandatory pension funds were made in 2017 at 5.66 billion kunas of NETO payments, compulsory pension contributions and increased by 5.97% compared to the previous year when 5.34 billion kunas were made for compulsory pension funds. With regard to voluntary savings, i.e. III. The column currently operates 8 voluntary pension funds with less than 300,000 members and 19 closed voluntary funds with 30,000 members. The State encourages investment in voluntary pension savings, paying members of voluntary pension funds from the state budget, state incentives amount to 15% of the total contribution paid by a member of the fund in the previous calendar year, but not more than 5000 kn per fund member over one calendar year. This means that the maximum amount of government incentives a member of the fund can make in one year is 750 kn. a the total amount of State incentives paid to members of voluntary pension funds in the 15th year shall be EUR 49 million 653 647. So this is a little bit of information that I know is of interest to everyone. I thank you again for the debate, and if there are any questions, I am available.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79776	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Majdi Buric. We have one replica. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79777	Dear colleagues, this replica is only for the sake of being very precise is that we have 1,84, i.e. a million and 840 000 insurance companies in the second pillar, it does not mean that they are employees, it is those who have ever appeared and must not make a mistake, share savings with that number, but rather with that number, with the average number of constantly employed taxpayers II pillars, and then we could talk about their savings in relation to the total capital, the average savings relative to the total capital of compulsory pension funds. So the replica is just to explain the situation so it doesn't happen as it always comes to wrong calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79778	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79779	I agree with you, colleague Hrelja. So the number of pension fund insurance companies is one, the number of insurance companies based on HZMO is the second and the two categories should be distinguished, and you know it yourself and I believe everyone here that, on the basis of one salary or one income, actually becomes a member of the pension fund, or II. If he's a liability, they'll stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79780	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Once again, I would like to thank the State Secretary, Mrs Majdi Buric, and the Director of REGOS, Mrs Iskri Primorac, for the reasons of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79781	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 263., the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 115 for, 3 abstentions and 3 against, are passed the Law amending and supplementing the Central Insurance Register Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79782	I move to the following item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency - Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 29. The law on the protection of personal data. The debate was conducted by the relevant Committee on Information, Information and Media. I call on the representative of the government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Katica Prpic to give us an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. The Personal Data Protection Act requires that the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data be carried out by the Director appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also prescribed that the Director of the Agency shall be appointed to 4 years and may be re-appointed. Given that the current Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency stands out, it is proposed to adopt a decision on the resolution of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency for the expiry of the mandate. It is also intended to ensure the continuity of the Agency's work and to take into account the provisions of the proposal for a law implementing the General Data Protection Regulation, which is proposed in the procedure of adoption in the Croatian Parliament by the current Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency Mr. Anto Rajković, is appointed Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The entry into force of that law will cease to be subject to the Personal Data Protection Act, and the transitional and final provisions of that bill provide that a person who is to be appointed by the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data on the day of entry into force of that Act will continue to act as Director until the appointment of the new Director of the Agency. This is provided for within eight days of the date of entry into force of that law. the central authority of the national administration responsible for the system of state administration shall initiate the procedure for the appointment of the Director and the Deputy Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79784	I would like to thank the secretary of state, Ms Katica Prpic, for the explanation of this proposal. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79785	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretary. In front of us is the agenda item Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency as well as the decision to appoint Ante Rajković as Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. In accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, the Director of the Agency shall be appointed for a term of four years and may be re-elected. As the current Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data expired on 11 April 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a resolution of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency for the expiry of the term of office at its meeting on 10 April 2018. The new Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency was also adopted. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the HDZ, it supports that proposal for a decision re-appointed Mr. Antu Rajkovic as Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79786	I thank my esteemed colleague Milicevic. We're moving on to the next debate. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's gone. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's gone. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I thank the secretary of state, Ms Katica Prpic, for the explanation of the proposal. Now I'm setting a break to 14 o'clock and 15 minutes. Thank you very much. It's 13,47 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79787	Under A) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency under B) Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body. First, I am voting on the motion for a decision on the resolution of Ante Rajkovach, director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 114 for and 4 abstentions have been decided on the resolution of Ante Rajkovaca, director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal to appoint Ante Rajkovače as Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 78 for and 30 against the proposal to appoint Ante Rajkovaca is on the post of Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79788	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:15 HOURS]] We are now moving to a united debate on: - Annual report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2015 and - Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2016. Law on State's Attorney's Office. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the reports? Mr. Dinko Cvitan, Attorney General, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on State Attorney's Office, the DORH, made up a report on the state and movement of crime in 2015 and 2016 on matters related to the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, legal issues in certain areas, the review of the organisation and the status of the staff. I will try because it is two reports that I do not share the same data, I will try to give a parallel representation of certain data compared to 2015 and 2016 and I think it will be sufficient to clarify the situation of things. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this report, the Law on the State Attorney's Office draws attention to the state and functioning of the legal system, the lack of legislation and the internal business of the State's attorney's office, wherever deemed necessary, proposals aimed at further improving work in certain areas of the activities of the State's attorneys. In accordance with the provisions of Article 125, the reports for 2015 and 2016 shall contain an overview of the situation in certain areas of work in the department of state attorneys, review of this work, statistical indicators by individual thematic units, indicators of performance in procedures, and of the material status and state of staff of state lawyers. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 2 The State Attorney's Office Act does not contain data on specific cases. The state's attorney's organisation was established both this year in a way that has led to 15 county attorney's offices and 22 municipal state's attorneys' offices and, of course, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. On 31 December 2016, a total of 1,731 persons were employed in all 39 public lawyers, of which 621 state attorneys, 982 officials and 128 tenants. This is 8 officials less than at the end of 2015 and 55 employees and tenants more than at the end of 2015. In DORH, 24 state-level officials worked in USKOK 32, in the county's state's attorney's offices 157 officials, and in the municipal state's attorneys' offices of 408 officials. Looking from the perspective of specialisation in the criminal departments of the state's attorneys, 414 deputy state attorneys and 137 state's attorneys, and 175 deputy state attorneys and 56 state's attorneys in civil and administrative departments. Of the 621 officials who were appointed worked on 31 December 2016, 422 or 67% were women. The largest number of colleagues represented in the state's attorneys was at the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, where of the 85 officials, i.e. the deputy state attorneys of 73 women or 85.8%. The report also lists data on the national representation of officials in the State's Attorney's Office, which, on occasion, corresponds to the national composition in the Republic of Croatia. From the post of deputy state attorneys on 31 December 2016, 171 seats were unfulfilled or just over 1/5 systematiced state-level lawyers. Out of the number 8 seats, it was unfulfilled in the DORH, 46 in the county state's attorneys' offices and 78 in the municipal state's attorneys' offices. As regards the employment of officials, it is necessary to point out that, through a State Service plan for 2016, the Minister of Justice provided for the employment of persons at the posts of financial investigators under Article 42(4). The Rules of Procedure of the State Attorney's Office and it is a matter of professional associates with completed graduate university studies or specialist graduate professional studies and a state-run professional exam and a working internship for more than 3 years in the business of researching economic crimes in the police, tax administration or customs. In 2016, the report said that tenders for these jobs were launched, but I must say that no job has been completed since the coefficients governing their salaries are low and no one has any interest in moving from police, customs and tax administrations to work as financial investigators in the State's Attorney's Office. For this reason, I have sent a proposal to the Minister of Justice that with the exact amount of the coefficient indicated, with a valid explanation, that there should be no increase in the coefficients, however. In any case, these jobs are unfulfilled during 2017 and '18. A year. As far as material financial conditions are concerned, the budget was approved for all state attorneys amounted to a total of 341 million 816 000 kn. 341 million kunas were spent. Total budget allocations in the year '15 and '16. Yearly, from rational spending were sufficient for the ongoing business of state attorneys, i.e. they allowed them to do planned jobs and keep the current up-to-date. However, there is still a lack of funds to settle the costs of intellectual services and, in the first instance, to settle the costs of experts and interpreters, as well as the costs of the defendant under official duty in the work of the criminal departments, which arise for the State's attorneys during the previous proceedings before the prosecution is brought before the prosecution, i.e. in the process of providing evidence before the action is brought. This may lead to a negative impact on work in certain cases, since, for example, financial accounting skills are necessary for decision-making in economic crime matters, given the frequent complexity of these cases and the scope of the documentation as evidence structures. It should also be taken into account in cases with an international element, which requires international legal assistance, as well as in cases where the perpetrators of foreign nationals are, in particular during the summer months in which this expert assistance is necessary. In connection with the work of the criminal departments, I will present 2016 data with some comparisons with 2015. So in 2016, state attorneys received total criminal charges against 39,244 persons, that is against all known perpetrators, all legal and physical persons, resulting in 2.7% more complaints against known perpetrators compared to 2015. In 2015 38 227 applications were received. The maximum number of applications applies to celebrities 37 813 including adults, hence those from the age of 21, younger or more than 18 to 21, and minors from 14 to 18 years of age, and reports indicate a growth of 2.5%. A slightly larger growth of 7.5% was reported in the application against legal persons. During 2016, 1431 applications against legal persons were received, unlike in 2015 when they were received 1331. When examining the movement of applications for certain types of criminal offences, it is evident that the reason for the increase in the total number of applications against adults in 2016 is an increase in the number of applications for certain criminal offences and this crime against property, there is an increase of 749 applications, crimes against personal freedoms of 435 applications, and crimes against the judiciary is an increase of 190 applications. As regards the movement of the criminality of minor minors from 2012 to 2016, a continuous decline in the number of applications was observed and continued during 2016. During 2016, the decline in the number of reports filed against minors was continued, and during the last reporting period, state attorneys received 1809 criminal charges against minors, and a significant decline compared to 14.1% compared to 2015 when such reports were 2105. As regards the structure of crime in both reports, data have been provided and there have been no significant changes. So the most represented are crimes against property, and they're always about 35%, so crimes against personal freedom, against the economy, marriage, family and children, etc. As for criminal charges against unknown perpetrators, there was a drop in these criminal charges by 9.6%. In 2016 29 969 criminal charges against unknown perpetrators were received, unlike in 2015 when they were 33 156. The structure of the crimes filed against unknown perpetrators with 90.3% are participating crimes against property. During 2015 and 2016, state attorneys maintained high awareness of the work they showed in earlier periods. Despite the increased inflow of new criminal charges against adult perpetrators, thus increasing the total number of work reports, increased engagement in the past reporting period, 32,797 applications or 11.1% more were resolved than in 2015. In total, only 229 applications remained unsolved in the State's attorney's office. Which means that only 0.7% of the total leased applications were not made by the State's attorneys during 2016. The report also presents data on the involvement of state lawyers and how all state attorneys, all state attorneys, carried out as regards the evidence and eyewitnesses of the first examination of the defendants, the examinations of witnesses and other activities 39,921 of the evidence, and 47,632 of the hearings, respectively, during 2016. On the occasion of criminal charges, there were increased rejection solutions in the total number of criminal applications, so that the percentage for 2015 was 42%, while for 2016 it was 46.9%. One of the main reasons for the high percentage of rejections of criminal charges is the structure of the applications submitted. In this regard, it is necessary to distinguish between the applications submitted to the State's attorney by the police, which are mainly justified and supported by facts and evidence on the basis of which the State's attorney can make a decision on the follow-up, from criminal charges filed by other persons, legal persons, citizens, damages and the like. Most criminal charges by other persons have been filed without any legal basis, often for behaviours which, although according to the applicant's assessment, have no criminal record at all, fall within the sphere of criminal justice, it is a matter of unresolved property legal or civil legal relations, which the applicants seek to resolve in this way. Furthermore, the withdrawal of a proposal for prosecution in criminal offences, of which the existence of such a proposal is a prerequisite for the prosecution of the perpetrator, is also one of the reasons that lead to the adoption of a solution on the rejection of criminal charges. In the report there are structures relative to, therefore, celebrities compared to adults, younger minors and minors... reject criminal charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the investigation is concerned, the Criminal Procedure Act has been prescribed to carry out the investigation for criminal offences for which the prescribed sentence of imprisonment is more than 5 years and unless the conditions for bringing a direct indictment have been met. From the data available in these two reports, a visible and significant defeat of the number of investigations launched, and hence the decisions taken under the investigation. During 2014, compared to the previous year, the reason for the entry into force of the 5 novels of the Law on Criminal Procedure in December 2013. This, the novel, significantly extended the obligation to conduct an investigation which until then was only an obligation for criminal acts for which the long-term prison was prevented, reflecting the number of investigations launched during 2014 but also in the following reporting reasons. It should repeat that the additional burden, as for all state attorneys, has been additionally burdened, has also been presented by unfinished investigations conducted by the investigating judges, under the provisions of earlier laws, which were submitted in 2014 to further handling the competent state attorneys. Namely, those investigations are not included in this data, and this is 352 cases, against 889 defendants. I must say, not one of these investigations, which, according to the Supreme Court's decision, was delivered to the state's attorneys, was less than 3 years old. During 2016, the state's attorneys adopted solutions to conduct an investigation against 3445 adult perpetrators. Compared to the previous reporting period, there was a lower decline in the number of investigations initiated, namely, during 2015 there were 3583. For the period 2016-2016, the The state's attorney's office made decisions after the investigation in relation to 3642 adult perpetrators, of which 2899 indictments and 556 resolutions on the suspension or termination of the investigation, while 186 investigations were otherly resolved. During 2016, only 2 investigations, so 0.1% were suspended or suspended after the court's ruling. The accused council shall, after the indictment has been brought, make a decision in which the indictment may be fully or partially confirmed or rejected, suspend the criminal proceedings or return the indictment to the State's attorney for the supplementation. During 2016, the accused council made 9975 decisions, 9615 of which solutions to confirm the indictment, that is 96.4%. And the 291st solution to which the retrieval charge, i.e. 2.9% while only 69 are procedures, 0.7% of the total number of defendants charged with suspending the working panel. This has kept a high percentage of confirmed indictments from the previous reporting period, with a significantly reduced number of suspensions by the indictment council, namely 150 proceedings were suspended in 2015, resulting in a decrease of 54% in the number of suspended proceedings in 2016. As regards criminal sanctions, 15179 first-degree rulings were passed against adults, i.e. 3.8% more than in the previous reporting period, i.e. 14620 judgments were made in 2015. Of that number of judgments, 13811 judgments include 40 408 judgments adopted under the agreement of the parties. This shows that a high level of success in the 91% procedure was maintained during 2016. In the same period, 891 acquittals were passed, which is 5.9% of the total number of verdicts passed and 477 refuting verdicts, which is 3.1%. So with less deviations, we can talk about the unchanged structure of first-degree rulings compared to the previous reporting period. As for the sanctions imposed, the maximum representation of probation sentences, which were made in 10354 cases, amounts to 75%, prison sentences, prisons, long-term prisons, has been made according to 1913 perpetrators, that is 13.8%, and work for the general good, generally as a substitute for prison sentences, compared to 1231 perpetrators representing 8.9%. As regards the State's attorney's appeal policy, we believe that the criminal policy of the courts is too mild, i.e. that sanctions are too mild and in all cases, which is detailed in the figures in all, therefore, when the acquittal is passed, there is certainly an appeal from all legal grounds in essence, and in relation to sanctions that are not acceptable to the State's attorney's office, complaints are made. As regards the confiscation of the property benefit, to which special attention is paid, namely, what was previously important in the work of the USKOK itself before 7, 8 years ago, is being practiced by all the State's attorneys so that the report is located in all the county's state's attorneys, the total amount of the seized property benefit based on first-degree rulings, which amounted to 192 million kuna in 2016. In particular, the report discusses the work of the USKOK in this report, which I would like to point out, in 2016, that 1087 persons accused by USKOK were left unjudged. As compared to 2015, there were 876, therefore, an increase in the number of non-judgmental persons by 24.9%, however, are not only corrupt acts that are in the jurisdiction of the USKOK. Corruptive acts are also in the jurisdiction of regular state attorneys, and above all I mean abuse in economic business and abuse of positions and powers. So, at the end of 2016, there are 2238 persons left behind for these crimes without a first-degree verdict, and these are, therefore, people from the jurisdiction of regular state lawyers. It's 97 people more unjudged than it was in 2015 when there were 2141. This information speaks of the complexity of a number of these crimes and the long-term nature of the proceedings, and it is also a worrying fact, given the importance and consequences of this type of crime, and the need to sanction these crimes as quickly and efficiently as possible. When we compare how average criminal offences are reported by regular state attorneys, it is 960 and the same as USKOK we say that the 2.5-year inflow of accused persons for these crimes has no first-degree verdict. All state's attorneys took all the action to freeze the property's benefits. The reports provide statistics, exact data on how much of the assets are frozen. So that's what I want to connect to the financial investigators. Of course, in... Tax administrations or, as it is said in a Colloquial manner, the Tax UskoK are being investigated for financial flows, the disproportionateness between the incomes of assets is determined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only guarantee in the case of a convicted verdict that the property will be seized is to block that property. As a rule, we have a lot of criminal offences, especially property crimes, where the court has to make its own statement that the property benefit will be taken away from the defendants. However, the defendants often have no property. And so, it remains a dead letter on paper. We are now doing data analysis to all who have the rightful judgments to do so, and the property benefit has been taken away. It's a very complex analysis because it's a very long way from a first-degree verdict, so that the verdict becomes a power of power. So it may take in county jurisdiction and a year, two and three, but if it goes to the Supreme Court, it goes on there too long. So it's very difficult to sublime that data and we have to go back a lot of time, and the fact is that our computer system has been fully used since 2015 and we have to do it, what we say, manually. The report on the work of the criminal departments contains data all over the heads of criminal offences, and I won't talk about it now because I won't have enough time. As regards the work of civil and administrative departments in 2016 received a total of 78432 items, or 9.56% more than in 2015. Statistical data and both reports are provided without registration in the RDO register, so that we can say that in 2016 the civil and administrative department and state attorneys received 69167 new cases or 12% more than in 2015. There are 52864 cases, representing 68%, administrative cases 3419, representing 4% and other cases 22149, representing 28%. When we talk about a review of new cases in 2016 according to the state body from which the dispute arises, the largest number of cases stemmed from the Ministry of Defence’s jurisdiction – 926, State Office for State Property Management – 775, Ministry of Agriculture – 664, Ministry of Justice – 542. The total value of the dispute cases in all litigation cases is 2 billion 908 million kuna. The value of the request by the Republic of Croatia for claims is 408 million kuna, while the value of the claims against the Republic of Croatia is 2 billion and 499 million kuna. The total value of all litigation brought before municipal courts amounted to €232 million and €675 million before commercial courts. If values are considered on the active side, where the ministries and agencies are prosecutors, it is evident that the Ministry of Finance's initiative has brought lawsuits in which the total value of the claim was 213 million 965 000, the Ministry of Economy 52 million 184 thousand, the State Office for State Property Management 32 million 519 thousand etc. On the other hand, the analysis of the claim to the Republic of Croatia as a defendant shows that in 2016 the highest claims towards the Ministry of Justice – 554 million kuna, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, Infrastructure – 307 million kuna and the Ministry of Finance – 238 million kuna. In particular, the report highlights a peaceful solution to the dispute, i.e. the well-trained legal provision of art. 186. Law on litigation. In fact, the law prescribed the obligation of all persons intending to sue the Republic of Croatia to apply for a peaceful solution to the dispute before filing an action to the competent state attorney. The same obligation is to have a state attorney's office on behalf of the Republic of Croatia intending to sue a person. They've been in the report for years. What is to point out is that from 2012 to 2016 a total of 6621 extrajudicial settlements with a total value of 635 million 255 thousand kuna were concluded. The report shall, in particular, give a review of all for 2016, the review and in 2015. But this is now an extended list because some new things have happened, so arbitration procedures where you can actually see enormous amounts of money being sought out by arbitration procedures. So these amounts are according to arbitration, and now I'm not saying that they are 10.5 million kuna, 44 million kuna, 88 million euro, 8 billion kuna, a proposal for the top 10 million 56 thousand euros, etc. This is about extremely complex and extensive procedures where there is a special procedure for selecting foreign lawyers to represent in investment arbitration. Namely, the commission made up of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the DORH are considering the offers of lawyers who report to the tender let's say so or self-initiatively that they represent the Republic of Croatia together with the DORH. All their business references are taken into account and the price they require for these representations is also taken into account. After that, the procedure is the following, when the commission chooses the best law firm then the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia requests the approval of the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that it can conclude with that law firm a contract. So far, of all these arbitration proceedings, three have only been completed and all three of the Republics have won. In 2016, the cost of representing the Republic of Croatia abroad included arbitration and other foreign disputes amounted to €39 million 257 thousand, which was as much as 70.12% of the total DORH budget for 2016, which amounted to €55 million 986 thousand. All costs of the procedure taken abroad fall on the burden of the budget items of the DORH as a judicial body, in particular when it comes to violations of international agreements on the protection of foreign investment, there is no logic or justification in our position. In fact, the current way of showing the costs creates a completely wrong picture of how huge funds have been allocated to the operation of the DORH. I purposely speak to the DORH because often in our public the synonym DORH is also used for regular state attorneys. Well, although we're not many in the Assembly, I remember an anecdote, namely on the HTV teletext several years ago, representatives of the Croatian and Serbian DORH met in Belgrade today. The report provides specific data for representation in litigation cases before municipal and commercial courts and success in these litigation proceedings. We can look at success by the number of cases lost or won, but I think we should look at it this way as we've shown them in the report, and that's what these financial effects are. And if we look at the success or failure of the DORH through the value of the dispute, then before the municipal courts, we get lawsuits totaling 305 million 999 million kuna, we lose 109 million kuna. So in 74% of the lawsuits we get, and 26% of the disputes are lost. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79790	Mr. Cvitan, I'd like time to ask, so as soon as there's a second possibility that you can explain it then, but here if you want to finish, briefly, I think the MPs will agree half a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79791	Thank you very much. Just one more sentence from the work of the civil-government departments, therefore, as regards the representation of success before commercial courts, there is the result at that level as in 2015, and so immediately I will tell you in 2017 a far greater number of cases, i.e. the extent of the proceedings received according to the value of the case dispute, than it is lost. I could still talk a lot about the organization, but I believe that after the debate there will be an opportunity to answer questions. I still have an obligation to say at the end, and the following, my conclusion is that during 2015, the state attorney's office, 2016, was the first to maintain a high level of awareness of the quality of performance in the work, and given the prominent legislative material and personnel difficulties, the result was above the average engagement and advocacy of all state attorneys, deputy state attorneys, officials and deputies. In particular, the report states that special attention is given to the education of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys. There's one critical point that I don't think we've done enough towards the education of officials, and now we're considering the possibility that both through the judicial academy and such an education is being done as something that is permanent and I think we should work on it. Furthermore, the conclusions talk about the functional establishment of a CTS information system that needs a lot of work, but already the current results allow everyone to actually be seen from a level, a higher level of what they do to them and in what state each individual object is in. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79792	Thank you. I would like to thank the applicant's representative. There were a total of seven replicas, according to MP Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79793	Dear Mr. Civtan. It is said that slow justice is not justice. I'm not going to say any bigger malfeasances, I'm just going to mention the IRS, postmortem aid, etc. Sucking roads, HAVC, criminal charges filed in 2012 so far nothing. Not only that, these films that funded HAVC are shown in... as Croatian films that spit on the Croatian army. Secondly, the Ovcara stopped an investigation into the Ovcara, a man being removed from the investigation is rising against the so-called so-called. The plight of the penitent 13 years after the fact. In the end, how will your rule and Mr. Bajic be remembered? For a thousand mass graves of communism victims on Croatian territory, no investigation, no DNA analysis, no convictions. That means we will go into history as the only country where the greatest evil in Europe has been amnested west of the Urals and that is unfortunate. You have an example of a gentleman... 130 pits, he died two years ago. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79794	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Cwitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79795	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Glasnovic. First, the fact is that I am not satisfied when we talk about the processing of the perpetrators of war crimes against the Croatian population in the Homeland War. The fact is that when it was, let's say, it was French, even though it was an ugly word, not all the actions were taken, and then there was no relevant evidence collected, and today we are in a position to find evidence and witnesses potential, of course the defendants in other countries. We've done everything, I've done everything in my mandate to speed up the processing of war crimes. From 2014 to 2017, I include now and in 2017, crimes have been prosecuted, which is unforgivable, only then, but are prosecuted for crimes. in Voćin, Cetekovci, Galinci, Cholja, Trpinska cesta, Dalmatian hinterland, from Zadar hinterland to Dubrovnik hinterland [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Lika Osijek, Široka Luka, [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] rocketling of Ban's Courts, Skabrnja,... [[Intruder Petrov: Mr. Cvitan, time is up.]] What can I tell you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79796	Thank you. I would ask only the parliamentary representatives to keep an eye on the time as well as the proposing representative. The next replica was reported by a representative of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General, since I've had the chance to publicly monitor your work, you've been a professional from head to toe. This is what you were doing today when you presented reports for 2015 and 2016, even though 2018 was well off. I ask you, if you can, if you're ready for that, for a minute, no more than that, for a minute get out of that shell of professionals and try to answer two questions honestly. It's one thing to judge the four years you've been head of the state's attorney's office and the other question is, do you know, but human, what makes it considered that you don't deserve another four? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79798	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79799	Thank you very much, Mr. Grbin. I'm happy when I'm four. It could have been better, but much has been done that it is not visible to the public in relation to the organisation of the state's attorney's office, in particular the setting up of supervision over the work of regular state lawyers. To your question about how I feel, first of all, to tell you the truth, saying, I am today, I feel like a free man. I am happy to be in the Assembly today, and the fact is that I am related to my work, and also to my predecessor's work, therefore, compared to the 2013 report, I was twice at the plenary session, 10 times on the parliamentary committees only for the report, by having been three times in front of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice, three times before the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities and one failed attempt by Mr Sincic, where I also came to the Parliamentary Committee on Gender Equality, which unfortunately, because of the quorum was not maintained. I would have been much happier if I had given these reports when they were to be given, and I believe that this should be done by the summer break of the year in which the report was submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79800	Time, thank you. Representative Sincic came forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79801	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Cvitan, please explain to us the structure of the value of USKOK objects. Why a large number of small-value items, which are primarily state-of-the-art cases, are given to be treated by the USKOK, means on the one hand, the USKOK that should specialize in organised crime, which tells it its name. For economic crime, for severe cases where there are a large number of participants, where there is great money, he is burdened and overcrowded with small things, and the big fish run away. Here, one case, in the case of 21 customs officers and forwarders, meat smuggling, schnapps and BISH wines, included 44 persons, total damage of 3.5 thousand kuna. Why is it a job for the USKOK, not for the local state's attorney?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79802	Replication response, Mr. Cvitan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79803	Your Honor, Mr. Sincic, you're absolutely right. The USKOK Act should be amended, its jurisdiction should be narrowed down. The BOOK has to work 10 serious cases a year, not to take a bunch of garbage, criminal charges, submissions and everything, and it ends up exhausting because these brandy and I don't know what it was and it has to prove as well as a billion and 700 million kunas as well as in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79804	The representative of Bunjac answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79805	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear State Attorney, is it true that the state's attorney's office is holding a slim parliamentary majority by slowing cases against individual MPs, particularly Tomislav Sauche, Milan Bandic, Ivan Vrdoljak? Tomislav Saucha, the closest associate of Zoran Milanovic in the "Dnevnice" affair, allegedly stole half a million kuna by lying travel orders. What took so many graphological skills that lasted months, why did it take nine months to press charges, and why not just a first-degree verdict until today, but not even a single hearing, and so it all happened, discovered 14 months ago? What kind of state we are that is not capable of such a media-exposed object is very important for the functioning of the state because that is exactly what the government depends on, so we are not able to bring the end to some reasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79806	Replication response, attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79807	Dear Representative Bunjac, I can't talk about a specific subject, but I'll say the following. Therefore, the actions carried out by the State's Attorney's Office or the USCOK, nevertheless in the investigation process, are time-limited. The statistics we're making and will be available to the Parliament, I didn't bring them now, yes, they show in fact that over 85% of the investigation ended within 6 months. Extraordinary investigations take a year and a half. And the fact that there's no river, look, there's a lot of reasons. The reason is a normative framework that is bad. The possibility, let's say the use of legal, law by lawyers who only do their job, I would do it... to delay his conduct. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, the fact is that the trial is going very slowly, especially in a second-degree trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79808	Representative Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Cvitan, I must say that it is inadmissible and embarrassing of the ruling majority for not allowing us to discuss these reports when the time was right and what the report was brought into the agenda thanks to opposition and pressure from the opposition. It is a shame that the head of the country's key anti-corruption and crime authorities is being replaced in this way, his mandate is not extended and he is throwing an extra shadow at the man who will come to your place because it will further reduce citizens' confidence in the institutions, in the judiciary, in an honest fight against corruption. 94% of respondents in Croatia believe corruption has spread, 58% that in the last 3 years it has increased. To what extent do you think Milan Bandic has decided that you cannot be trusted for the next 4 years, since his subject is one of the key things that you wanted to break corruption at local level?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79810	Replication response, Mr. Cvitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79811	Dear Mr. Representative Jovanovic. I can't answer this question about how you asked it, I can just say the following: for the state's attorney's office and for the USKOK definitely name, last name, party membership means nothing. If evidence were collected against any person, that person would be processed or as I like to say, the collokual society of his colleagues and his own son would have imprisoned him if he had committed a crime and then carried him on Thursdays to Remetinec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79812	Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79813	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that one of the reasons we lost to arbitration in the INA MOL case is that the arbitration council did not accept Language's claims that he received 5 million euros in bribes as serious evidence, and why? Because the 5m-euro bribe Robert Jezic said was given to him by Ivo Sanader has never been returned to the state budget. And I wonder how long that 5 million euros will be in his account, or will they ever be returned? Why haven't they been returned yet? And you're saying it's hard to take away those who are suspected of money that is thought to have been acquired in the wrong way, but in the case of Jezic, the man said he had money, said which account is the money, I wonder why the DORH didn't act on it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79814	Replication response, attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79815	Your Honor, Monsieur Pernar. Therefore, as regards representation in the arbitration proceedings, the arbitration procedure does not involve the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and it is the only arbitration procedure where the State's Attorney is not represented by a foreign law firm. So, as far as the arbitration proceedings are concerned, I can't tell you anything. As far as the verdicts you are talking about are concerned, it is a verdict which was both a power of power and at the moment the verdict became a powerful appeal, we have then taken all actions to provide international assistance to the competent Swiss authorities, while the Swiss authorities sought further clarifications because they were unclear why the municipal state attorney's office, the civil management department was now putting that request, and not the USKOK, and so it is according to our regulations, until they answered us the Constitutional Court abolished the verdict and the execution could not be done. So I'm sure I want to do it this way and deny that the state's attorney's office didn't do everything that needed to be done, just the opposite, it did everything. And the money, I hope the verdict will be passed someday, so we'll take something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79816	Thank you. Representative Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79817	Thank you very much. State's attorney, you counted the figures, basically the people don't believe those numbers because the big fish that robbed Croatia, who didn't have '90s. Five kunas in the pocket, today they're rich people. I personally filed criminal charges for the arms money, and you're familiar with it that's taken over the Cetina province, today these people run large systems and privates. There's no answer. Is it possible that no one in the Republic was responsible for the White Nights? To telecommunications, rather than later, they're head of foreign telecommunications. Of course people don't trust us. No matter what you do, you don't work. Because I can't believe when the most honest sons were arrested, meaning General Gotovina, that the INA was being robbed at the time, that the state's attorney was doing political science and that's the fact. How do you change that? I don't know, but I do know that the people don't trust the State's Attorney's office, or the judiciary, ma'am, from the judiciary, I see you keep your mouth shut and follow. People don't trust you because you don't do your job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79818	Thank you. The answer to the replica of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79819	Your Honor, Mr. Representative Bull. I agree with you, I agree. Now the question is, how do you solve what's not solved? Only the synergy of all state bodies. In 2007, I had a chance and I became a person of the week, you know why? Because on the Council of Mr Jovanovic I almost yelled, if you think I will solve or BUSKOK the problem of corruption in Croatia, then you are wrong, I resign immediately. We need to see who the bodies are detecting a crime, it's the primary police, but not just the police. Where are the account records? They're in the IRS. The inspections have clear data. So only by synergy and by the will of all that can be solved. The state's attorney's office is often just powerless. The creation of a tax system, hence an independent sector for the detection of tax and financial fraud, has made one big, big step. Now let me boast and that was my initiative, if you don't believe me, ask Mr. Lalovec, he was then Minister of Finance. But that's not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79820	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinions? No, I don't. I'll open the hearing then. The first club to come forward for discussion is the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club. They'll have the exposure with that, that Mr. Sincic and Mr. Bunjac will share the exhibition, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79821	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. 2018 is the year, we have already entered the second quarter, and we are discussing the report from, that is, in 2015. In a few days, Mr Cvitan is running out of mandate and he could not have come here, to give this report that the opposition has not collected the initiative. We were lucky that the initiator was a living wall, but I thank all those who signed that initiative. It should be said at the very beginning, that it is obvious that Mr. Jandrokovic's intention to at the same time put Mr. Peruška in the Parliament and Mr. Cvitan to take each other's attention, that HRT is not passing this report, long awaited, very important. I will start by saying, that the State's Attorney's Office, one of the most spoiled, most armed Croatian institutions, the Living Wall and the voters he represents, has never trusted him. In the State's Attorney's Office we have continuity, from 2002 to 2012 if I am not mistaken or which, therefore, we had, Mr. Bajic, his deputy was Mr. Cvitan, then the deputy became chief state attorney, and Mr. Bajic was his deputy. So that's her roshada Putin... And now we have the case of Mr. Jelenic, who is Deputy Mr. Cvitan and now he will become the attorney general, and Mr. Cvitan, the media says, will become his deputy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have therefore the continuity of government, the continuity of governance in a system that is not good. If you have continuity, it's a good model, when you have successful results, when you have, you know when you're successful, but when you don't, it's a disastrous model and that's why we're against the appointment of Mr. Jelinić, about it more yesterday. Let's focus on this report today. I don't know, Mr. Cvitan, how personally you are responsible for all this that is happening in Croatia, and that is one clue and comedy, a man who sees everything happening to Croatian citizens and Croatian companies, how many millions and billions are blocked by justice, would laugh or cry. I don't know how personally you are responsible for this, the Living Wall will fight to the end to examine your responsibility but also the responsibility of everyone else in the State's Attorney's Office, but you are the boss of all these people. So here we go through the chains of your work, or the work of the DORH that you represent here. Your constitutional role, according to Art. 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I quote "The State's Attorney's Office is an independent and independent judicial body, it is authorised to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences", as they quote. You have not fulfilled your constitutional role, not just you, but we have the continuity of many decades of not fulfilling that constitutional role. And now I'm going to elaborate on why that's the case. Staff policy, which we see in the State's Attorney's Office, is similar to that in many other places, e.g. In the CNB, you would say so, out of that circle, out of that mass just rotate people and it's impossible to clean up such... without opening the system without someone being put outside that system to manage that system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian State Attorney's Office has chronic problems, which kill Croatian society, which send a clear message, that crime is paid off, and these are problems of non-compliance with criminal charges, these are problems of delay with charges and intentional coercion, these are problems, for example. As a random indictment, let's say one day later, as is the case with Mr. Vinko Mladnej, here's from the press. The Zagreb County Court, colleagues and colleagues, has dropped charges against former director of the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency of Vinko Mladnej and the owner of the company's disposal of the raw materials Miha Zrnić Marinović. It's one of the examples that happens in the Republic of Croatia, I don't believe it was an accident and just that day, but it's probably about guessing, maybe to give some bribe to allow it as a negligent and to ruin it all. And because of cases like that, there's a lot of mobs here, and there's cases of Mr.... Bandića, Croatian citizens live in garbage from Karepovac in Split, to Marišćina near Rijeka, up Piškornica near Koprivnica, to Jakushec, here we all know what the situation is, because of your inaction, not only that Croatian citizens are suffocating in garbage, drinking polluted water, because of your inaction, we will have to pay for the penalty, because over 10 years we have failed to solve this problem, the disposal of waste, and we are not because it does not fit the waste mafia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is only one case, where the State's Attorney's Office, with the rest of the judiciary, of course, where I am not going to waste my time here today, will be time for that, will lead the mafia into a protected position and all Croatian citizens in a threatened position. But we are going further, in the case of HAC, here, the same from the media, the County Court in Zagreb, today dropped the indictment, from the Fimi Media HAC affair against 4 former directors of Croatian highway and highway Rijeka- Zagreb, which has been charged with sucking up 9 million kuna from companies for the needs of the HDZ black fund through FIMI Media. The Zagreb County Court's Council of Prosecutors dismissed the indictment of the County State's Attorney's Office against the directoral quarter, as it exceeded the legal deadlines. A similar case again, accidental failure, for God's sake. The case of Croatia's bus, continues this continuity, a new DORHA failure suspected of war profit and fictitious recapitalisation of Croatia's bus did not prove, the case went out of date. According to the DORH County Court's position, he made a key mistake, Mr Cvitan, because he did not explain well enough why the defendants are now charged with war profit. The court asked the D.A. to complete the indictment, the prosecution didn't do it, ignorance, negligence, intent, who knew, right? The indictment failed, the case went out of date on 16 January 2018 several months ago. And it's a series of examples that I don't spend all my time late on teaching, or, like, pressing charges, we're going to a little bit of a U.S. Attorney's decision-making. I've already said in the Croatian Parliament several times here is one case in the separation of the Press from Agrokor if I remember, eight years no state's decision has been made, if you're interested, I think it's your files and your documents, we can prove it and show it again, send it, I know a specific gentleman in this case, 8 years the State's Attorney's office has not made a decision whether he's going to go after it or not, if not the gentleman would have sued or been damaged by a private lawsuit and you're not even giving him that possibility, it's a shame. Let's move on, another one of the cases where no state's decision has been made is the Fantasy project case, we've all got colleagues and colleagues, in our boxes up at the counseling-information center I've seen you all get. It is a case that shows a lot in the Croatian judiciary, in the special state's attorney's office. Here, a hundred months, a hundred months, I think there are five disputes, but in this worst, a hundred months, there is no state's attorney's decision, and 18 months is the time for the whole process to be over, not to go into legal thesis right now. What's going on here? There's been a crime between investors and banks, a case has been reported to the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Office has done nothing for two years, then it's been reported to a judicial inspection, there's been about five years already, nothing's been done. So for five years, the judicial inspection has not examined what was done or not done in this case. The works listed inside are forgeries of official records, overpayment of court warlocks more than prescribed, non-compliance with criminal charges, investigations have been delayed, etc., the entire long list of course that does not exist when the judicial inspection has never been examined. If she did, she'd find some things. Otherwise, Mrs. Sani Ljubicic, former Deputy Director of USKOK, is the person in charge of this matter. Instead of being sanctioned for failure for 2 years, Mr. Cvitan, she was promoted to the head of the county attorney's office and now recently about fifteen days ago, you must have promoted her, although the State's Attorney's Council does so by the Constitution, the same article 25. Instead of being prosecuted by the State's Attorney's office, he put himself in the field of criminal cover-up. We're moving forward through the State's Attorney's Office's work cut. Some of these cases may not be directly related to your mandate, but you have been in the State's Attorney's Office for a long time, you were Deputy Mr. Bajic if I am not mistaken in 2005, you knew or should have known everything, also your entire team and around you, let's say your deputy Mr. Jelenic. Let's move on, on the case here's one case of endless investigation, Mr. Calmeta, an indictment has only been brought just now for something that was known in substance 10 years ago, which has waited 10 years? To go into obsolescence, to die witnesses? What were you waiting for? Is that justice? Will my children welcome the verdict in this case? Well, it's impossible that everyone's innocent. It can't be. Half of Croatia is gone, no one is processed, where does it lead? Apart from the loss of many natural persons, our citizens, especially those who have reported irregularities, whistles, the Croatian economy has been injured because the big money has been drawn from public companies, many projects have been blocked, millions of investments have been blocked, who will come to such a country to invest where you wait 100 months. Your money is waiting somewhere for 100 months, so everyone will run from such a country, everyone will run, so no one is crazy enough to spend half their lives on the Croatian judiciary, please. Here's a case of HT, a new case, are you Mr. Cvitan, familiar with the fact that HT played small shareholders? It did not pay them dividends, but the profits went away, they argue, on the purchase of Deutsche Telekom bonds included in the 125m-euro Luxembourg Stock Exchange. However, given the insight into the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, it is evident that HT did not buy Deutsche Telekom bonds but some dependent off the Shore firm Deutsche Telekom International... from the Netherlands, therefore, HT published a false data relating to the purchase of securities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is all of course reported, the DORH reported it rejected without checking the actual facts and circumstances that the DORH lied. The same damaged people, they ask, what about that money, HT shareholders ask what's wrong with their property. As Mr Cvitan explains the fact that the municipal state attorney's office, the criminal application for the consumer protection company was brought in 2014 against Ivica Mudrinic and HT for the criminal part of the fraud in economic business, solved for a full 4 years, full of 4 years. In order to reject, only less than a month ago, without questioning the defendants. At the same time, at the same time, the State Attorney's Office did not act at all within 2 years following the criminal application of the same company, the consumer against other responsible persons, HT, who was raised because of the abuse of the capital market and forged official business documents despite multiple complaints from the same consumer company. Even the attorney's office in this case, the County State's Attorney's Office has ordered that it be done, must be done within 3 months. And it wasn't done. Finally, I see I've already spent all my time, the cases are really a million, not only are citizens reporting, but the memos are coming, which I believe you know. Finally, he would look back at that blue booklet, your report that I studied, somewhere there says that the Croatian State's Attorney's Office is struggling with material problems, that there's nothing left to be filmed on, that technically, the cameramen who are being used in investigations, that there's no space, that there's no place to work, that people have their own cars because they don't have official transport records, yes. I was talking here, when it came to the budget that Croatian judicial separation... A straight line has been going on for many years, and people are crying out for funds to be effective in order to fight crime effectively, we need to improve the laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, Mr. Cwitan, I guess an expert, said we should amend the USCOD Act. She needs a new frame. I don't trust the current state's attorney's office, I just don't believe it. And this personnel restructuring of the same clones. Don't be offended, but it's real for our citizens to understand and, of course, it needs more money because every million we invest in prevention will come back to us multiple times. The living wall will not support either your 2015 report or the 2016 report because of what I have stated, because of the failure and because the DORH turned instead of the stalker, the protector, the security guard of large-scale organised crime, and you were never independent, you were, unfortunately, acting on the political line. I don't know about you personally, maybe you are the most honest, so you're limited, but the state's attorney's office in the global world is not independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79822	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79823	... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79824	Thank you. ... I would like to thank Representative Milenić. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Before we go any further, the first high school students from Varazdin are with us at the gallery, please welcome them with a round of applause. Give it up! For five minutes, the state's attorney general called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79825	Dear Representative Sincic, without the intention of changing your attitudes and influencing your attitudes, I am obliged for the truth and for the sake of my colleagues whom you have mentioned here, not the name and last name to say a few words. You mentioned the Mladneo case that a one-day notice was dropped, that the indictment was dropped. That's right. However, the fact that it was a stroke, there was no such thing as taking bribes. The state's attorney's office then initiated a tight procedure against two valuable deputy county state's attorneys. This was the legal condition for the renewal of the proceedings, the renewal of the proceedings is allowed, the indictment is confirmed and the debate is under way. The other thing, you mentioned one project, if I didn't do it again, not to advertise, you'd put out a whole series of incorrect data, I don't think you'd do it if you had all the information and you mentioned... County state attorney then in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2009, if I'm not mistaken, and for that, she got a real state-of-the-art award. On the other hand, Mrs. Sani Ljubicic, who is now my deputy, here's so much so that the public knows, you've all read about how a fantastic lawyer, Mrs. Montgomery, is engaged in London. She's really top, top of the top British lawyers. However, no one noticed one thing, that the judge said on the one hand, that she had never seen such a request for extradition, an EU order such as that EU order was written by counterpart Sani Ljubicic, and lawyer Montgomery, the day before she entered the courtroom, it was Tuesday, the whole Monday was pre-refused because counterpart Sani Ljubicic was in London. That's why in the protection of dignity, I won't mention the names of my colleagues, therefore, the deputy county attorney, but you mentioned the name and last name to my colleague Ljubic. On the other hand, I agree with you, we've got trash, but the state's attorney can't walk around the dump. I'm talking about the synergy of all state bodies. And on the other hand, they're wondering what I was doing 10 years ago. You know what I was doing? I've done something that the whole of Europe worships.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79826	The replica was reported by First Representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79827	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would use my second line of 3 to ask you, namely, is it true that you and your family are in a police protection program and if you are, since when? Who's threatening you for what reason? It's said that you don't go out on the street, it's even said that you don't dare to take food and drink that you're not sure they've been checked, so I'm curious if it's all common truth, how it's possible that you as a top state attorney can't prosecute someone who threatens the highest authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79828	The answer to the replica of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79829	Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac. I don't like to talk about this. However, the assessment of the police is that my life has been compromised, that my murder has been ordered from two sources and that's why it protects me and my family. A few years ago, Agent Lesar respected the chief state attorney, Mr. Mladen Bajic, who was free to go down the road and he said, "I'll believe you only when he's under police protection because that's when you resented someone, and that's the basic job of the attorney general and the attorney general at all." It's not easy, it's a hard life and that's it. What can I tell you? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79830	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79831	Dear Mr. Cwitan, you said you've been worshiped from all over Europe. That you made DORH some kind of respectable institution. I figured that out from your speech. However, the fact is that Croatian citizens have been rescinded, in all large cases there are no final convictions. We have the Calmeta case, Sanader, so we don't keep counting. Todoric has been away since the trial, etc., etc. So I think that actually citizens are laughing for DORH's sake, I would even say one English rhyme, DORH is a cry, for those who are great criminals, and what is processed by a customs officer for two kilos of cheese etc., a policeman for 200 kuna bribes, such successes cannot be considered, or such cases, if they are properly solved, cannot be considered a success. Generally, to draw the conclusion that the DORH is successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79832	Replication response, attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79833	Your Honor, Mr. Pernar. It's a good joke. However, when I talk about it, we need to see what the state's attorney's office is doing and what its role is in the whole process until the verdict is reached. The state's attorney's office is to determine the facts, assess the evidence and file charges and the time when the indictment was confirmed, therefore assessed by the court, that the indictment should be brought before the court and that the court may debate the charge. Of course, a lot of small, small criminals have been accused, I speak by the USKOK, but by the Prime Minister, the UN Security Council chairman, I don't know how many ministers, mayors, mayors, professors, doctors, cops, and state lawyers and judges lately. They're not little fish. I know that the perception of citizens is bad in relation to the work of the state's attorney's office, I'm probably responsible for that, I'm certainly responsible, actually, if I didn't want to go public, I was professionally acting and silent and working. If I've done well, it will evaluate the Parliament, it's the only body that can evaluate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79834	Thank you. Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79835	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Cvitan, I could tell you anything now about Mrs. Sani Ljubičić's case or about Agror or other things. But they cut our Rules of Procedure, I only have three replicas all day long, and you can speak endlessly, so I'm going to move on to another topic. ... targeted to call you here after they cut the time for the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for Mr Robert Jukic of the Croatian Post Office and the investigation into malfeasance in Croatia, the post office and other directors, what about this? If the investigations have begun, at what stage, if there are any charges, please elaborate on me and the Croatian Parliament and the public as well as on cases of malfeasance in Croatia. We know that we have more whistlers from there, so they personally, when I spoke about Croatia, Mr. Reiner couldn't listen to it, so he kicked me out of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you a little bit about the Croatian Post Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79836	Replication response, Mr. Cvitan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79837	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I don't know what's wrong with the Croatian Post Office right now because I can't know all the items. You've seen the numbers. Thirty-nine thousand celebrities sign up. What I know from every criminal record is done. That's why there's surveillance. Whether the decision has been made or not on criminal charges, it's supervised. I, as the attorney general, can't know. When I was at USKOK, I knew every case, but now I can't be the attorney general knowing what the state's attorneys are doing. But when I get to the office, I'm going to check this out, and I'm going to consider this a representative question, so we're going to deliver an answer. Otherwise, this isn't a report on specific subjects, but I consider this a question, you'll get an answer when we get a phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79838	Thank you. The following is the Advocacy Club, which reported for participation in the debate, is the SDP Representatives' Club. Representatives Orsat Milenić and Pedja Grbin will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, let me express my great dissatisfaction with the fact that we are discussing reports for 2015 and 2016 in April 2018. And we are not discussing this because the ruling finally called for reason and realized that we have to talk about it, but because the opposition used a new institute which was in some way pushed and obstructed and submitted a mass of amendments to the Rules of Procedure that allowed the opposition in the Croatian Parliament to impose some of the topics. This is the first such situation and the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Cvitan is at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament not because they considered it congruent, but because the opposition requested it. And then what do we have today? Today we have a situation that at least from the court, even if we say goodbye to this main state attorney at the plenary session, the minister of justice, and then the state secretary who was sent, does not find it appropriate to say a word about the work of the entire state's attorney's office in two years. Not a word! Why? I guess it doesn't matter. Because I guess it doesn't matter how we prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts, it probably doesn't matter how we represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia in thousands of litigation cases, and it's probably the least important way we prepare the defence of the Republic of Croatia in arbitration proceedings, like the one against the Swiss franc that's being led these days. These are all the things that the chief state attorney and state attorney of the Republic of Croatia are doing. Their work is not small, their work is big and should be aware that this work is done under very difficult conditions. And my colleague Sincic, who spoke before me, made it clear that the funds for the judiciary were not increasing for years, but in one he was wrong. They don't stay the same. We have inflation, we have an increase in the cost of life. When the amount remains the same in such a situation, it is actually shrinking and we spend less and less on the judiciary every year, and then we wonder that people not only work in the USKOK are surrounded by piles of files, but also, for example, in the civil-government department in Zagreb who work in adaptable apartments where they can't get past the file that threatens to come down on their heads. But that's not what anyone's asking. And nobody predicts the means to fix it, but then today they'll come here and call people who work under such conditions. That's it, colleagues and colleagues are not okay. I'm not talking about statistics, they're being talked about by the attorney general. I must, at least one sentence, which is the one that speaks of the perpetrators of criminal acts, or the one that speaks of the decisions that the courts have made on charges in proceedings. The fact is that over 96% of the charges have been confirmed and USKOK cases over 98%. I'm going to repeat again what I've been saying for years, so maybe it could point out a little bit to the fact that sometimes the state's attorney's office is too cautious when it starts things. But I will still be denied statistics that show that success in USKOK cases has dropped something, so it was 90% in 2016. Now, this is especially important because it's exactly the USKOK objects that are most exposed to the public. Because no one in this house seems to care what the perpetrators of those crimes are regularly prosecuted in the Republic of Croatia which we most often encounter: theft, burglary and so forth. No one cares that we in the Republic of Croatia have one of the lowest killing rates per capita in the developed world. But not just that. These murders, even when they happen, are resolved in 80 or 90% of cases, by active and engaged work by the Croatian police and the Croatian State's Attorney's Office. No one is interested in what, among other things, is the work of the state attorney's office of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian police, Croatia is one of the safest countries in the Mediterranean and Europe. If we know that tourism is one of our most important economic branches, then you understand why this security is important. But we don't talk about it when we criticize the work of the state's attorney. We keep it quiet and pretend it's only important and only what's media-exposed. Yeah, it's important, but it doesn't matter. Today, in fact, it should be open there, just formally discussing the State's Attorney's Office's report for 2015 and 2016. We're actually discussing Mr. Cwitan's mandate as a whole. I'm sorry, I'll repeat, that the Minister of Justice does not sit here to at least try to answer what Mr. Cwitan objected to. What's the reason why after four years we don't propose him to continue his term once more? I accept that the rulings have the right to such an attitude, though. But when you take a stand, then you have an obligation to do so and explain it. The government and the ruling majority avoid it. I hope we can make it from another attempt tomorrow. But let me, before I leave my colleague Milenic's word, still make a few remarks about the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Yeah, and there's a fellow living wall part of it, but still right. The fact is, perception is based on those objects we talked about. Those items that are media-exposed and the fact is that in many such cases, such as Sanader, or the case of our distinguished Parliament colleague, Glavas, there is no verdict of power. At least there were. But is this the fault of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia or is it us, representatives of the Croatian Parliament who have changed the Code of Criminal Procedure seven times, it seems to me for the first time and before it came into effect. Is it our fault that we are passing such laws that courts and the state's attorneys often interfere with their work instead of helping them or it's the courts that are delaying such cases, so it's a perception that the state's attorney's office has filed charges two years ago, and the main debate in the case isn't scheduled. So it's doubtful whether it's only the state's attorney's fault. Secondly, war crimes have been mentioned, that I would like to see far greater success in the process of war criminals and the resolution of war crimes committed against Croatian citizens. But let me tell you then, regardless of nationality, regardless of nationality. Because we can't just look at one side and pretend that the crime is connected to someone's nationality and that only some have committed crimes because they haven't. However, this debate because we will not have the opportunity to discuss the report either for 2017 or 2018 with you, there will probably be someone else sitting here. Dear colleague Cvitan, you didn't need that press with Mr. Plenkovic. It was a mistake, and no matter how unpleasant you were, you still doubted your independence. There was another mistake, when I mentioned Mr Plenkovic, but it was not your fault at all, and it was an even more unfortunate mistake, when it was publicly announced that the state's attorney's office was providing funds for the work on a specific case. Well, we could have sent Todorovic and the dispatch to escape from Croatia. Watch out, it's working on one particular case and then the government announces it. So where's the element of surprise? He's gone. It's all public, but it's the state we live in. I'll leave the word to my colleague Milenic, and before that, the SDP Club will, of course, support the state's attorney's work report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79840	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Chief State Attorney, State Secretary, Assistant, all of you nice, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot of data here today, we've heard and a colleague named Grbin has actually pointed out the problem and colleagues from the Living Wall have brought it out and brought this report to us in fact, and that's one problem and an indication of how we treated the state's attorney. Not in my opposition, but how this government treated me. If you don't put a report on him at all, you're sending a message at least that you don't care if you don't care. And that's bad. And at all, today when we're talking and when it's ahead of us and the proposal isn't here, but it's going to be for the new chief state attorney, and I think we should draw a line and I'm saying what I'm saying, in particular, on behalf of my colleagues, and I believe that Mr. Cwitan, in the circumstances in which he worked, did an extremely good job. Not only was that famous tax BOOK launched, and let's not forget that it led to an investigation and a process in which we couldn't even suspect before and that they were giving results. Not only are the open investigations against some people who were previously considered untouchable, and today these are being handled in public, and the worst thing is that these same untouchable people are calling this chief state attorney and threatening him with a shift, and even worse still, the government accepts it and proposes tomorrow someone else. And that's bad. But when you look at and you sum up the work of this chief state attorney, then what's perhaps his biggest flaw is that he didn't show up in public and then he and the state's attorney, they were actually carrying a burden that they weren't supposed to carry. Because if the charges are filed, so it's not confirmed for two years or three, then it's not the state's attorney's office's problem, it's the court's. If the practice changes, so something has now been, so far legal evidence, so becomes illegal evidence, it's also not a problem with the state's attorney's office. If the law changes, it's not the state's attorney's problem. But what we need, I'll tell my colleague Cwitan. You should talk about it because this is how he took it all on his back and on the back of the state's attorney's office. I know that's how he chose access, and that's the kind of man he is, but that's the problem where there's something going on and where neither in public, and unfortunately here in the House, it's not clear who's supposed to be responsible for who's in charge. And when we sum up that mandate, what marked it, you can see it from this report, but you can see... All of us, which is that maximum, at least as far as the state's attorney's office is concerned, were all equal before the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was not seen who came from any political or any other option, who was rich, who was poor. At least when we talked about launching an investigation and pressing charges. One of the colleagues here also told us about some of the items that have been standing for a long time. Right in this term they're running. You mentioned Calmet. Yeah, he's been standing for a long time, but he was launched right in the term of office of this chief state attorney. Is there anything or isn't there? I can't judge it, it'll make a decision court, but it's something moving. And the mandate and this report, I'm looking through it. So there were a lot of results, but you should always look at the circumstances. Financially we talked about it, it's legal as it is, but let's not forget, the state's attorney's office is always just the middle. First it starts with the police, first it starts with other bodies. You can't expect, if we don't know, an ecological disaster, the state's attorney's office will only come when someone else has determined what really happened and then it can process it. That's just how the procedure goes. And in the end, we have a court. And that's where when we valorize both this and every other report, we have to put it in that context. The sooner he comes, the later he comes, and the more someone needs to be held accountable, the better and the bad. However, the fact is also that citizens are dissatisfied with the overall state authorities, both with enforcement and legislation. I don't know which one of us gets worse grades, us as the legislative worst, but also the judicial and that's the case. And that the state's attorney's office is part of it and must bear its own responsibility. And that's where I go back to what I said before, and that's my grudge to my colleague Cwitan, he should have spoken. He's a professional, and he didn't do it, but he should have said it because then some things that don't go on him were recorded, loaded and called for it. It's actually my biggest grudge in your term of office. And this other thing, you did the best you could from what was and it's safe and in the state's attorney's office, how much data I have, the situation is better than it is, some things have moved on to the better. You have here a man who fought for human resources and fought for finance as much as possible for material conditions, so he took care of his people and that's one good thing. Here, I won't be long, but I support the report. The mandate was very good, I'm sorry it wasn't another one. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79841	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Since they're not there, he's losing his right. The next Club of Representatives is MOST of Independent Lists. In their name will speak MP Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Attorney General. There, thanks to the opposition advocates, among them, especially the MOST representatives who signed the request for a report on the work of the state attorney's office for the 2015 debate today before the election of the new chief state attorney, we have the opportunity to hear Mr. Cwitan and expose the topic which is extremely important, and in fact full and nearly three years we haven't had the opportunity to discuss the report by the attorney general. So we have an extremely important independent and independent state body that has not submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament since June 2015, which it has to report on a regular basis. It's sad because it shows, I'm not going to say recklessly to the state's attorney's office, but a certain political relationship that is unacceptable by the ruling party. Because the orderly report is included in the agenda, it stands for months in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, there is the opinion of the Government, which speaks more truth about statistical indicators, and there is no position on whether or not the Government supports this report. The debate was held at committee meetings and last year's Justice Committee. So all formal business conditions are met that this point should have been at the debate of the Croatian Parliament long ago, here at the Plenary session, it wasn't on purpose. And that's what the previous speakers warned about, and that's what's extremely difficult, and that's why we've also supported this opposition MP's initiative to keep this point under discussion. It happened that we were discussing today a report by the state's chief attorney, who is aware of the government's decision to propose a new person to the post, although we never had such a paradoxical situation in the Croatian Parliament. We were suggesting that Mr Cvitan did not enjoy the confidence of the government and the parliamentary majority since the government's opinion last year, which was not positive, and on the Committee on Justice that I had already mentioned, most decided that the report would then only take note of it, and not that it was affirmative of it, which clearly indicated that the ruling majority would not support Mr Cvitan. It is true that recently there is already one, almost continuous pattern in selecting individuals or bodies and that, as a rule, all persons appointed as previous governments are changing and setting up new persons in accordance with the will of the parliamentary majority and government. Just to mention, we also had a prosecutor for the children, we had the head of the committee to decide on the conflict of interest of Mrs. Oreshkovic and the President of the Supreme Court, now it's the chief state attorney, tomorrow it may be the Commissioner for Information whose election or re-election follows in the second half of this year, and apparently there is a tendency and belief of the government that it only trusts the persons it appoints and that it does not trust those appointed before that for some earlier governments. We hope it is not both the government's desire and the ruling majority to control all key institutions and state bodies. That would be completely wrong. There is a certain tendency in this regard and we talked about it when it came to the replacement of the then chairman of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. We were wondering how much this report will be open objectively now that the main state attorney can speak practically at the end of his term, actually speaking about the achievements of the state's attorneyship at a time when he was headed by him because in the end of the line this is not really an annual report, this is actually a report on the overall work of the state's attorney's office back a few years, or at least three years, because the report for 2017 is certainly, whenever it is, there will be some other chief state attorney. When it comes to the Club of Representatives of the Most, we have decided that we will not support the State's Attorney General's report and I will explain our key reasons. They are not just in the work from 2015 and '16. But in 2017, of course we are looking at the whole work of the attorney general. What marked that period is that we must critically tell Mr Cvitan, this is the fact that, in a certain sense, he violated the division, the principle of government division, which is the separation, independence and independence of the state's attorneyship from the government of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we seriously resented, so joint statement by the state's chief attorney and Prime Minister at a press conference that was about the Dnevnica affair that is happening in the very heart of government in the government of the Republic. Well, and everything else that was going on in the process or in the affair, it showed, unfortunately, that the DORH investigation was not good, it wasn't good, it was actually a lot of dirt. And here we were just looking very closely at the investigation because it was happening in the very centre of the government, because there was also one parliamentary representative involved here, and therefore we watched closely what and how this investigation was going to take place, unfortunately it was not carried out in quality, we later saw it, and even less had to be seen by the chief state attorney at a joint press conference with the Prime Minister. It's never good when the chief state attorney and the head of the executive authority come forward together because they just have to keep that distance and every joint appearance actually damages the independence and independence of the state's attorney. Furthermore, the fact that the special funds were later allocated to solve the investigation into Agrokor of those famous five million kunas that were supposed to contribute to the efficiency and quality and speed of the state's attorney's investigation actually proved to be the complete opposite of what the Prime Minister wanted to achieve. So exactly what the symbolic five million kunas are separate for this investigation has shown how much the state's attorney's office has modest means with which it can't work effectively. And that's something that's been there for years and that 340 million kunas as long as it's been provided in the budget for years for the work of the state's attorney's office is absolutely too little. An interesting section given in the report with a name on the non-conditionality of spatial conditions under which the State's attorney's office must act in which it is exposed to how almost impossible it is to work in the specified spatial conditions in a quality and efficient manner. It is unfortunate that for years, the state's attorney's office has been working under conditions that are absolutely inappropriate and that show that when budgeting, it is not a priority for the state's attorney's office to provide better quality working conditions. A number of situations that you describe in the report on impossible conditions for the collapse of ceilings on leaks, an outdated rolling stock, that you do not have a quality technique to record statements, etc. demonstrates that what is allocated to the State Attorney's Office in no way can enable quality work, and the fact is that I am convinced that these are not large funds, and given what assets the Republic of Croatia has at their disposal, they were certainly able to provide better quality spatial conditions. What is particularly controversial is why we can't give a positive assessment of the work of the state's attorney, it's a fact and not just a perception in the public that we're all talking about that all the key processes that have spectacularly started with the most often arrested have been difficult and, unfortunately, in almost all cases, we don't have the power to judge, even where we finally got them and the Constitutional Court has appeared, and unfortunately we stayed and have been deprived of it. Of course, it can always be said that it is not only the state's attorney's office responsible for the length of court proceedings and it stands, but it is also the fact that in many cases it took an extremely long time to file charges and that they are often returned to work and that this is the part that is undeniable to be put on the burden of the state's attorney's office. One of the more important objections to our club is the fact that we are dissatisfied with the results of investigations and the processing of war crimes during the Homeland War. It's something we believe the state's attorney's office has not satisfied in its work. Of course, there are certain excuses that you point out, for example, the staff devastation in the state's attorney's office which is indicated and there are even facts that say that you have been denied for years in receiving state-level law enforcement, but that is what follows not only you but also the judicial branch and it is undeniable. But what can also be read often, which is that there is a great fluctuation in the state's attorney's office and that many state's attorneys leave the institution, go to a lawyer's office or somewhere else into another state body that shows that this fluctuation is either the result of inability to do quality work or something deeper than it is in the system. I don't believe that it's just spatial conditions, especially not financial terms or wages because they're not different from judicial wages. So what you should tell us is what these key causes of this fluctuation that is significant right in the state's attorney's office, which then unfortunately doesn't lead to us having more mature and more quality state lawyers because when they come with some significant work experience, they often leave and this is increasingly mentioned in the public as one of the reasons that the state's attorneys are not as good at their work as they might be. We hope you'll give us some answers in that section as long as you have the opportunity in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79843	The promoter will now take a five-minute word, Mr. Cvitan's chief state attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So not wanting to deny your conclusions and your position, I am obliged here for all colleagues who work in the system to say the following. So you pointed out the perception of the public dissatisfaction with the work of the state's attorney's office and you said there are, of course, other courts because there are no convictions. It is my responsibility here, first of all, that the state's attorney's office has absolutely no responsibility in the situation where he's filed charges, and the indictment confirmed or charged with an order of the defendant's council has not been made... it's not the responsibility of the state's attorney. The attorney general doesn't have any way to rush a court case. The number of charges returned is very low. And on the other hand, the question of why people leave. They're leaving because the state's attorneys, let's say to the new CAP who's had seven novels, took responsibility, so I'm talking about the criminal departments, took responsibility and the tasks of an investigative judge. Not only that, the state's attorney is expected to have a proactive approach to participate in the detection of criminal offences, so he does police work, does prosecutorial work, does judicial work. Therefore, this is the reason people work hard and do not want to work for 10,000 kunas as long as the deputy municipal state attorneys have 10 and more hours a day and simply seek a better space for a better life for themselves and their families. And there's no going out of court because judges are masters of their time, state lawyers aren't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79845	Replica was reported by representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79846	Mr. Cvitan, you have now reiterated the importance of integrity, the competence of all who are employed by the state's attorney, and so on the entire state apparatus in which citizens do not trust. Unfortunately, and this way of dealing with these two reports according to your work, the way they choose a new state attorney will certainly not increase citizens' confidence in institutions, especially in the justice system. What do you think of the initiative the SDP Club intends to promote, which is that in the future, the attorney general is elected for one term of office and for a term of seven years? We believe that this would be a quality solution that would allow the state's attorney to work much better, unburdened by various pressures that have obviously been ruled out and in the absence of an extension of your mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79847	The answer to the replica of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79848	Dear Mr. Representative Jovanovic. So the initiative to amend the State's Attorney's Law was by the State's Attorney's Office and that was my initiative. My initiative was to impose a maximum of two mandates into the law, unfortunately in accordance with the Constitution, not unfortunately, we must respect the Constitution. The idea was that there was only one mandate because if there is a possibility of an extension and a new mandate these are corrupt conditions objectively which exist that the person who claims to receive the second term is supposed to do something that should not be done. On the other hand, our proposal was within the law, there came another text in the first reading to the Parliament that the National Attorney's Council held six months of the end of the term of office of the attorney general, that interested candidates should report to the public tender, give their work programme, consider the State Council, determine whether these candidates meet the formal conditions, assess the work programme and that their opinions not binding on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but nevertheless the opinion is to deliver to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and enable the selection of the main state attorney among several candidates. Unfortunately, that's not what the law says for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79849	Thank you. Representative Podolnjak called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79850	...we will not burden the part relating to a court case which may be extremely long, but what we have said and in the conclusion of the club is that the period which your responsibility, therefore, is the period of investigation, the prosecution of the indictment to the confirmation of the indictment in many cases and the return of the indictment to completion is something that concerns your work. In a lot of cases, and we don't normally talk about specific cases here, it wouldn't be like that, but we know and we've had a chance to talk about some important cases where this period took more than two years and it's something equally not good. That's what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79851	The answer to the replica of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79852	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I appreciate what you're saying. However, you must know when the indictment returns so-called. In addition to the fact that there have often been judicial solutions where the indictment has been written, it is returned to do so where a state attorney has to make a decision within eight days, that he will carry out new evidence actions, and in these decisions, the court has not been instructed to do so in some new, let's make a statement, to an additional investigation procedure. And that's where the problems come in. The fact is, the legal framework is very bad. I do not want to talk about judicial decisions, I have never commented on any court ruling in the Republic of Croatia. But the legislative framework is bad, it's time for a brand-new CAP, and we need to see if we don't know how to write it, brother, let's pick one that... fits and rewrite that law and all the regulations that are with that law and then we won't have any problems. This way we have the miracle that the evidence that was legal at a time when they were conducted after seven and eight years becomes illegal and are being questioned by proceedings, and this is not the case with a state lawyer because trust me at that time neither the Supreme Court nor the State Attorney's Office had any idea what it was the European Court of Human Rights or knew the practice of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79853	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative Marko Šimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79854	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected or respected assistant ministers, respected state attorneys, respected MPs and MPs. Reports by the Croatian State Attorney for 2015 and 2016 covered almost all segments of the DORH's competence in the prosecution of criminal offences in all areas, then statistical indicators of the movement of crime and the structure of the criminal offences reported, and a demonstration of the work of the State's attorney through its main task, which is to protect the property and interest of the Republic of Croatia. The text shows a number of tables and charts showing the state's attorney's organisation, the co-operation of the state's attorney's office with other competent authorities, as well as the state of human potential and material financial conditions for work. At first, I would like to point out that these reports are in fact, that these reports fulfil the legal obligation to submit an annual report by the state's attorney, but I am saddened by the fact that today we are discussing reports for 2015, 2016 and there is also a good discrepancies in the annual reports of other applicants with this report in the form work. I find it unnecessary to explain the legal and organisational basis for the work describing the provisions of the law, and instead it would be much more useful, rather that the report contains, for example. the activities of the state's attorney's office which are intended to undertake to make the work of the state's attorney's office better, more advanced, more successful, ultimately better. If the report were shorter and more transparent, along with simpler statistics and the state's attorney's own analysis, it would be much clearer and more quality. Let's go back and get to the contents. As for the organisational structure of the state's attorney's office for 2016 compared to 2015, we see that the state's attorney's office has 8 less officials, while the number of employees has increased by 55 and we have 7 new deputies, the total system has 1731 employees, of which almost 68% are women. The emphasis is placed on the serious problem of non-fulfilment of the place of trainees, as well as the problem of hiring people with specialist skills and the lack of funds for the settlement of intellectual services of witches and defenders. In 2016, the state attorneys received a total of 39,244 criminal charges against known perpetrators, which was 1017 reported higher than in 2015, and of which a higher increase was recorded in the application of legal persons who increased by 7,5 % in 2015, while the number of minors reported a decline of 14,1 % in criminal offences, against unknown perpetrators was also recorded and a steady decline of almost 10%, it was indicated here that this fall is taking place in criminal offences against assets that are actually most represented in the structure of criminal offences against unknown perpetrators, and their movement is directly reflected in the general picture of the movement of the reported criminality of unknown persons. Data that are worrying are actually a significant increase in the crime of serious murder which increased by 60% in 2016 compared to 2015, while there is also an increase in reports for the crime of murder which was in the period from 2016 to 2016. 2015 increased by 35% in 2016. It is not necessary to list all statistical data and comparisons of all segments of the report as they are described in detail in the reports, but I will list those that require special attention. What is interesting is that at the very beginning of the 2016 report, state lawyers are burdened with responding to complaints from the injured parties that they spend too much time on the answers, i.e. writing arguments, and according to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, close relatives and victims must be involved in the investigation procedure to the extent necessary to preserve their legitimate interests, and the interest of close relatives of the victim for the investigation represents, inter alia, a condition for their address to the European Court of Human Rights, and this finding is definitely not questionable in the report, nor should it be a problem for the State's attorneyship. It is then stated that the level of protection of defence rights, particularly introduced through institutes, research and investigation, is not sufficiently balanced with the request for an effective criminal procedure. This primarily refers to procedures for cases of serious crime and threats to terrorism. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights shows that the Convention's standard is in the direction of strengthening, not weakening of defence rights, and that certain restrictions on the rights of defenders are laid down in accordance with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms under strictly specified conditions. The report points out the problem of deadlines for completing the investigation, i.e. the deadline for ending the investigation in such a way as to extend the period of instruction for the completion of the investigation independently and exclusively on the complexity or severity of the case, but also on some other criteria, mainly objective nature. I believe that, i.e. we at the HDZ Club, it is preferable to retain the instructive deadline for the completion of the investigation because more judgments by the European Court of Justice against the Republic of Croatia have been made in which a breach of the Convention has been claimed because of ineffective investigation of criminal offences. Moreover, prescribing an instructive deadline for completing the investigation is one of the measures taken to prevent future similar injuries, but other bodies participating in the investigation should also be obliged to act on an up-to-date basis, hence material and to handle their parts of the business. As regards the part relating to international legal aid, the trend of increasing the number of criminal cases in which international legal aid and judicial cooperation in criminal matters continued during 2016. Since 2012, it has seen an increase of 126.3% and despite numerous data and registered cooperation, it would be even more useful if these analyses and statistics on international aid cases to individual countries, as well as the observed problems in practice in order to increase the effectiveness of cooperation despite the diversity of legal systems, but we have not received such data in these reports. Furthermore, a very interesting part of the war crimes report. In 2016, the competent state attorneys accused 84 people, a 171% increase compared to the previous year when the number of defendants was 31. And even bigger, considering the number of defendants in 2012 was 9. However, the number of convicted persons decreased in 2016 to 13 persons, down from the previous year 2015. This is positive statistics, but it would be even more useful if there was a supplement with the report that contained a presentation of all the cases in which the indictments and cases were brought that were legally and unlawfully completed in the last year, from which it was clearly evident what crimes were and who were the perpetrators of the criminal acts. We know that crime is a crime and that it is a crime, and we do not dispute at all that the perpetrators should be structured and, as well as the works being done, do not need names, because indeed, there is a distinction in legal science, which, by which crimes can be differentiated, the type of crimes, and thus to structure the perpetrators. In connection with the regional co-operation of the state's attorneys in the processing of war crimes, a number of cases have been delivered for the crimes committed in the BIH, in order to possibly pursue persecution in the Republic of Croatia. Because potential perpetrators are intruding in the Republic of Croatia. The report would be far better and more thorough if it contained data on co-operation with the war crimes prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia and the prosecution of Montenegro, as well as a presentation of data on the status of the case and evidence submitted by the Croatian State Attorney's Office to the regional prosecutors. A review of the state of cooperation, relating to individual countries, and in particular how many cases information is exchanged by means of the Memorandums in cooperation, and in which the ratio also leads to fees for formalisation of requests through international legal assistance. As regards freezing and confiscation of property benefits, the following data were reported in 2016, there was a reduction in the value of frozen and temporarily seized assets compared to the previous reporting period. So, according to the 2016 report, a total of slightly more than 90 million kuna has been frozen, which is 20.71% less than in 2015. Of which the amount of more than 16 million applies to corruptive crimes, 72.66% is less if we look at it compared to 2015, while the amount of 74 million 244 thousand kuna, for the offences of organised crime is higher, so 35.70% compared to 2015. By subtracting property benefit in 2016, it was taken from 94 natural and one legal person a total of 16 million 876 thousand 824 kuna and 25 June, of which the amount of almost 14 million kuna refers to the criminal part of corruption, and the amount of nearly 3 million kuna on criminal parts of organised crime, which is compared to 2015. a total of 7 million and 900 thousand kuna, and a significant increase was seen in 2016 by 113.53%. As a society in any way, we actually have to use every story to send a message, and this report, and this debate, in order to send a message, that no one, on any condition, can retain the property benefit that has been achieved or that the criminal part is being committed, so moreover, we think that even in this part of the property benefit, the data should be displayed and structured in a different way. The next point I would refer to is part of a report on organised crime and corruption. The number of persons reported for classical forms of organised crime in 2016 recorded the fall most visible in the criminal part of unauthorized production and drug trafficking. As 96 persons were reported for this crime in 2015, only 26. It's a 72.92% drop in the number of people reported. This negative trend is also followed by the decline in the processing of such criminal acts, and I think the reason is that it is in the domain of invisibility and dark numbers, so it is impossible to record them statistically, and often these cases are solved both by county and municipal state attorneys, at the expense of criminal research itself. This problem should also be related to the fact that there has been insufficient attention to terrorism through this report, it has been mentioned in several situations and several cases in certain chapters, but in view of all current developments and terrorist threats, and also some terrorist attacks and events related to them, we believe that the report should have given much greater importance and greater space for terrorism. Furthermore, another important area that was missed, which the state's attorney, i.e. the State's Attorney's Office missed, was mentioned by the Institute of Protected Rental, and during 2016 we know that several court proceedings were initiated, in which owners of the apartments in which the protected tenants were resident sought compensation from the Republic of Croatia for the inability to use apartments, and on the basis of the verdict to stop Lelo against Croatia. As regards land-based bookkeeping, the State's Attorney's Office processed and verified a little over a million and a half land-based book particles by 31 December 2016, some 700 particles remain on this report. We can conclude that according to a large number of proposals submitted and a small number of particles, which still needs to be checked, except for visible large activity, not only of the State's Attorney's Office, but also of the country's library departments, it would be good for the 2016 report to provide information on the number of proposals and the b series of land-based book particles, which discuss the land-based book court. As I have cited through this presentation and this debate, the reports contain a number of data on the work of the State Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia, a real review of all activities in the work of the Ministry of Justice, but I must note that at the level of the Council of Europe, a second and different approach has been developed, therefore, a modern and uniform reporting of the work of the judicial authorities and justice whose application in this report would certainly contribute to standardisation and easier review and monitoring of statistical indicators, as well as their collection and comparison with other legal systems in the EU. At the very end, the Club of HDZ Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the conclusion of the Committee of Justice, will take note of the report on the work of the State Attorney for 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79855	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by a respected state attorney, Dinko Cwitan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Here's one sentence, so we can't write about terrorism when terrorist acts thank God in the Republic of Croatia haven't happened. And it says that the competent county will receive a criminal application if that act happens and... the law of the prescribed action I think it's out. So good thing we don't have to write about it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79857	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the SDSS and on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79858	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. In front of us are reports on the work of the DORH for 2015 and 2016, when we look at that in 2018, I think that all of the debates have highlighted this one time-out when the years on which the reports are being brought and the year in which we are discussing largely our debate is actually pointless. If the DORH didn't report in time, then we can object to the DORH, but that's not the case... here but is actually bad practice and bad work of our Parliament. This debate is primarily in the reports is political because the Croatian Parliament is a political body, as the most representative body in which we express our political courts, but we must also concentrate on what the reports say. It is up to us to send political messages, to discuss and create a climate and framework in which the DORH will be able to fulfill its constitutional role and be free and independent. However, apart from the facts, figures, statistics, the tables contained in the reports, this perception is important, so from perception and the public and we cannot escape here, but in fact it is often a perception that DORH is some kind of apparatus, some kind of machine in which we can file applications when someone remembers and writes who they want and then expect the DORH to process it and very often the image is created in the media, or a picture is created that someone has been convicted before the state's decision to launch the whole thing. With such actions and sometimes our expectations, I say to our colleagues and representatives and politicians in general, we also raise the question of the credibility of the entire justice system and, in fact, the credibility and integrity of the DORH. The fact is that we are witnessing that the great pompous procedures that the media and the public follow have not completed in the expected way or are not completed at all, but when we evaluate in this sphere the work of the DORH cannot separate the work of the DORH from the work of the courts. The second thing I wanted to point out about this report, but to be easy to notice, it's actually year by year that we all notice that the DORH is constantly finding out that it lacks the necessary means to work, that they don't have the right equipment, that they don't have the right material and financial conditions, the spaces. In my view, the Ministry of Justice, the entire government, and us here in the Parliament, are bound to take care of it, to ensure that all material, financial assumptions are necessary so that people who are employed in the DORH can do their job in a good way so that people who work in the DORH have a motive to stay working in the DORH and certainly that the DORH as an institution would be an attractive destination for top lawyers who are just beginning their professional career. It would be great if we didn't have to invest in criminal persecution than if we could invest more money in education and health care, and unfortunately that's not the case, but we also need to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement. As far as the figures in the report are concerned, when we look only at the introduction that the DORH, therefore the entire DORH during 2016, has now only received a total of almost 40,000 criminal charges against known perpetrators and almost 30,000 criminal charges against unknown perpetrators, that means almost 70,000 applications. Fellow Members and colleagues, it is necessary to process all this, to receive and to process and to see what is found and what is not. From these figures and reports, I'd set out three things. The first concerns the crimes that the DORH pursues on the basis of international contracts and international obligations and domestic criminal law, I primarily mean war crimes. The report shows, as well as my colleague Simic mentioned in the debate before me, that 84 people were indicted in 2016, which is a significant increase compared to previous years, which is certainly commendable, if we consider the passage of time that certainly does not contribute to the work of the DORH because it is increasingly difficult to find both evidence and witnesses, and therefore the perpetrators. But I would still mention and warn, I personally leave every year for the VARIVO, and there we hold a memorial for those killed in war crimes after a military-redaction storm, where we also speak exclusively of expecting the DORH to find the perpetrators to be punished and that the purpose of the rule of law is achieved. With regard to the issue of war crimes, but in general all judicial issues, I believe that there must be no difference between us MPs and that we must be committed to all war crimes, but all crimes are generally punished regardless of whether or not they were committed and from whom they were committed. The second thing I wanted to point out about the concrete projects in this report is with regard to the crimes committed from the hatred that the DORH has particularly followed since 2006 when a guideline on the work and records of these crimes was made, so it is evident from the report that during 2016 20 persons have been charged with these crimes and that the competent courts have reached 9 verdicts. Compared to 2015, there were then 7 persons, so absolutely no large figures, these are not absolutely numbers that are large, but the indicator is that it is, if it is seen as a percentage that this is a major increase. What is good is that the DORH also monitors the crimes of public inciting violence and hatred that is among the crimes against the public order, but actually connects them to criminal acts, that is, hate crime. What is interesting, therefore, is that according to the way in which public acts are committed, hate is actually social networks, so Internet, Facebook, and the basis for which these acts have been committed are mostly discriminatory, from religious, national, or ethical, and sexual and gender commitment, i.e. identity. The same is not the case, when looking at the report, it is not an absolute number, so in 2016 only 8 people were charged, so the DORH started the case against 8 people, and 8 people were convicted, so they could say that it was achieved, that the DORH actually succeeded in all cases where he started the proceedings. The small problem is that we do not have such data in the 2015 report, and then we cannot compare whether there has been an increase or a fall. What I'd like to point out is I didn't notice my colleagues talking about it, which is the civil justice department of the State's Attorney's Office. So we're all focused on the criminal department and he's kind of more media-attractive, and the civil law department isn't in focus, and it's really a very important segment of DORH and I think one maybe even more important because I think that investment in equipment and education in order for the DORH civilian department to rise to one higher level, in fact to feel the whole state in order to actually make it worth twice as much. I even think that in this work, it is my personal opinion, we should make a reform and actually separate that civil and legal part of the DORH from the state's attorney's office to be one separate body or even part of the Ministry of Justice. What I would like to point out as a grudge, or one remark on this work of the State's Attorney's Office, since 2003. The Law amending the Parian Procedure Act was introduced in Article 186a, which rules out that if someone wants to sue the Republic of Croatia that it must, that a mandatory procedure is required, that is to say, an attempt at a peaceful settlement of the dispute with the State where that submission must be submitted to the competent state attorney's office, which then has a period of 3 months to declare whether it accepts a peaceful solution or goes into litigation. If the State's Attorney's Office does not show up, or if it refuses, that person may file a case against the Republic of Croatia. The article was introduced to reduce the number of disputes the parties have with the Republic of Croatia and thus dissipate the work of the DORH as well as the work of the courts. However, my perception, my impression is that municipal state attorneys do not do this enough for some reason, now I find it difficult to enter which reasons they are, rather than hold more, better than in litigation, better dispute, then better after a first-degree verdict and file a complaint and let the second-degree court decide. In fact, let the court decide as much as possible. To end, what I would like to say is that to discuss and evaluate the work of the DORH is difficult to separate from the judiciary with which the state's attorney is making a whole legal story, and when we have a grudge against the work of the DORH, or the work of the judiciary, then we need to be precise, we need to hit an address that we actually have a grudge against, whether we have a grudge against the work of the State's Attorney's Office or we have a case against the work of the courts. What is certainly interesting for me, for example, to point out in the report, is the assessment of the state's attorney's office which is in place and warns of the excessive criminal policy of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79859	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to individual debates. We've got them, just so you know orientation 19. And the first one will be the respected representative of Steve Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79860	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Cvitan, I really don't know where I'd start after all this exposure. As for your report, your statistics, your finances, that's acceptable to me. I could even say yes. As for the money trail in this part of your report, but the money trails in Croatia are far stranger roads and often one is not two, and two and two are not four. And we often lose millions, billions of euros on that road. Public perception negative, which speaks of the work of the DORH, the judiciary and sometimes the police, is reflected in a series of newspaper articles, in a series of headlines of negative ones, and more recently, the brochures of the judicial and police mafia are published. Examples from Croatian courts and court practices that show organised crime in the judiciary destroys individuals, families, the economy and the state. So far we have come to print books in Croatia about Croatian judicial, judicial and other crime. We are the greatest experts in public perception, especially when it comes to the Council of Anti-corruption that I belong to. So that's where the same reports come from the presidents who say we've made progress in the fight against corruption, we're even in the world to admit, and we don't have any results, we don't have any processed ones. We have, Tihomir Rončević, who was finally proven innocent. None of the other state officials in Croatia have sinned against Croatia's laws. Imagine, neither. Well, we're the most honest state, no corruption. We are, and according to the 2015 and 2016 report from the MUP a few days ago, who say, one of the safest countries. What makes this report fantastically positive? Well, by who the minister was, probably by that. And the same minister, in his time, on January 2, 2015, the cover, the disappearance of the weapons of the Varazdin police administration, raises doubts and accusations. ... As part of the planned criminal investigation, according to Police Chief Varazdinska Darko Jurčec, police officers found 20 guns, 10 automatic guns, 9 automatic rifles, and more rounds of ammunition, almost 3 kg of explosives and 30 hand grenades in the personal vehicle Renault Laguna was used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to that gun and rifles of domestic production, dozens of ammunition were found in their homes. A dozen silencers were found,... and 12 laser targets, which points to those etc., etc., etc. where the weapon was intended, for whom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the safest countries in Croatia, and so many weapons have disappeared from one police administration. Now imagine if we created an inventory retroactively in all the police administrations that were their initial state of arms, which is the current state of their weapons and how many of their administrations are missing from similar and similar weapons that have no further clue. This is where we found the clue. We managed to catch one of the cops, yeah. But as far as DORH and the judiciary are concerned, as far as the investigation has taken place, if it has not become a secret in the meantime, as well as many secrets in the Republic of Croatia that are in action. I'm not even talking about the swastika affair. The minister was the one who was with that lawn chief, so I guess they figured out which chemistry was the best. I'm not going to accuse anyone, I'm just reading the media. There are some crimes of others. He says what connects MP Bora Grubisic? Representative Boro Grubišić 29th January 2014 and Stevo Culej 16th January 2018. What connects me and Bora? Imagine the same man, the same scam, the same thief, but... So, the representative question of Dr Bora Grubisic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament regarding the criminal application for fictitious student contracts, at which stage the DORH investigation was related to the criminal application for fictitious student contracts at the Gavella Drama Theatre in Zagreb 2014. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then comes some Steve to the Croatian Parliament and imagine, the same case comes to his mind and then he asks the same question,... is the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, you have submitted a parliamentary question to Steve Culei, a representative in the Croatian Parliament in connection with a criminal application for fictitious student contracts at the Gavella Zagreb drama theatre, in connection with the submitted parliamentary question we report that on 16 January 2018 we received a report from the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia under No. which results in the submission of Mr Vinko Mikulić against the responsible persons of the city drama theatre, Gavella, the municipal state attorney's office in Zagreb, and the data collected did not indicate that a criminal act being prosecuted under official duty would be committed when the theatre was paid through student contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as a coincidence, I have fictitious accounts, beams. Math, it's enough 2 in math to know what's written here. It says this, however, those contracts that were completed and co-signed by Ms. Nevenka Andric, the deputy director, and signed by the director, Mr. Darko Stazic, and by the description of the period of work, it is evident that these contracts were fictitious, and the students were only money raisers with a likely commission, and the two signatories only know the flow of money. And now there are the names of the person. Let's say the Tony Skelin case was the same period of contract work that was delivered to the student service on the same day, 28.9.2007. Tomislav Vukovic, the same period of work, has 4 contracts, and in the student service period of 23 days 5 contracts were delivered to the amount of 46 thousand 951 kuna and so tens and dozens of contracts between students who worked 700 hours a month. There are also gentlemen who served military service in Gavella and received 50, 60, and more thousand kuna for a few months of military service. Whose, and ours are not, have served the boys of the military, have filled their casinos and gone home or into a party that will give them their next assignment. Now I'm going back to the war crimes that I've somehow grown up to. How is it possible that in the Republic of Croatia after so many years of the end of the Homeland War we haven't filed any charge of commanding responsibility against those who organized, against those who persuaded, who spread hate speech, and some have sat here among you, not with me, but here they sat. They were suspected and under-processed, waiting for their witnesses to die. Many will never see the face of justice. I say, by what criteria does the DORH initiate proceedings and press charges? What are the criteria? To wait until someone dies. That's the criterion. The issue, the title of another defeat of the rule of law, at the request of Cvitan, or Pupovac, was removed by Nikola Kajkic, the chief investigator of Ovčara. Police inspector Nikola Kaikic of the PU Vukovar-Srijemska, who was headed for a year by a team leading the investigation of war crimes committed in Ovcara, on January 20th and 21st 1991, was removed from office. A man who came up with some results and imagine afterwards, after his shift and his results, comes up with charges against Stuka from Serbia who gave even more where he exists, where he hides, he was eaten by another pike, the one who persuaded him to commit crimes on Ovcara. Now to cloud the work of the DORH, like they did something so they took the hero of the Hosovec Homeland War... who was killed in Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79861	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79862	My colleague Culej, because of what you have now brought about my brother, former director of Gavelle, is former accounting chief of the Gavelle, Vinko Mikulić, who was legally convicted of slander. I'm going to suggest to my brother that he sue you, too, because you'll be out of office, and now he can't prosecute you while you're a representative, but your mandate will come out and you'll be paying for mental pain and being tried. The case was reviewed by the state's attorney's office, was in control of the city's control office, it was criminal police and two audits. None of what you've stated have been confirmed. You're one of the simplest slanderers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79863	The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79864	Sir, I may be a slanderer, but perhaps I am telling the truth, as I have many times here. And what are you hiding behind? Like your brother? Behind these fictitious accounts? After the suspension of the commission to determine the victims of war and porn? Is that what you're doing? You can have confirmations of both the DORH and the court and all, this book and the charges on the very work of the same ones talking about your truth, and my truth is spoken of by mathematics, pure, 1/1 or by you 1 -2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79865	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Attorney Dinko Cwitan will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's to finally, even though the M.O.P. has denied it, I say here publicly. Everything you've said about it, probably based on articles and portals or on a TV show where individual guests were, Dinko Cvitan's chief state attorney at that meeting didn't ask for a shift. This was denied by the Ministry of the Interior, and beyond what was at the meeting and the way it worked here, I can't speak. So, just what you said isn't true, but I'm letting you trust the media you've been reading, and I'm responsible for telling you that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79867	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79868	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. State's attorney and secretary of state. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Chapter 5, Article 125 of the State Attorney is one of the pillars of the state government, one of the most important institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and we have a situation that he has not been invited to the Croatian Parliament for the 2015 report and that this provision of the Rules of Procedure has not been introduced, the representatives of the HDZ are likely to be little and regretful now, we would not see him here today, given that Mr Cvitan's 24.4. It is very interesting that the successor was appointed before we heard the report, before we refused or accepted that in such a way he must part with his post, after this same Croatian Assembly discussed not all the reports of the Ombudsman, whether they were the Ombudsman for children, for gender equality, persons with disabilities, after listening to the report of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, after listening to the reports of HERE, HAMFE, HAMAC BICRO, Croatian Radio Television, Croatian Documentary Centre, with all due respect and respect the institution are not in the Constitution. They're gone. But they all came before the turn. I dare say, they've come to order in due time. And the attorney general must come and can come to the Croatian Parliament only when 30 MPs sign it. And then the logical question is, most logically in the world, why? What are you hiding gentlemen from HDZ, what are you hiding? So if this Mr. State Attorney is after crime, and you won't let him come here, I can't conclude anything else but that you're hiding crime. That's why you didn't invite him. That's why the secretary of state shuts up like a fish in a fish tank when it comes to commenting on these reports. And that's why you're overnight, watch out yesterday was the agenda one to change the agenda around lunch yesterday, and then suddenly put the source of a new state's chief attorney that no one's heard of, let alone outside the legal circles, let alone some kind of public consultation, a debate, that we have his life. Now we can guess through the media who Mr. Jelinić is or who isn't. But to get back to this, just a report on the work of the attorney general, as people say. Chief state lawyer Bajic was bad, so his deputy was elected who was, some say, worse than he was, some say better than he was. We're moving Mr. Cwitan now, re-elected his deputy. So it's obviously some practice to choose a deputy. By choosing the deputy, it is clear that in some ways the policy of continuity will continue, just as in the case of Mr Fabris Perusko inheriting Antu Ramljak, it is essentially only about human change and not about policy change. The DORH's work at least is controversial, there are some things we can say that were good, some things were definitely bad. For example. We can admit to Mr. Cvitan that he didn't go to the media, that he didn't estradize the work of the DORH, which may not necessarily be a virtue because some things need to be said publicly. The fact is, someone obviously responded to him when he was under police protection. If his murder was ordered twice, it looks like he was doing something. The fact is, he stepped on crime in some sectors, for example. in football, he seems to have done more or less his part of the job in Bandic's procedures, Saucha, Sanader. But all these procedures ended without results or are still going on. So we don't have anything concrete in our hands. We could ask Mr. State's Attorney why the indictment of former HDZ Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic fell. Why is it that Evey Sander, the symbol of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, who, according to the indictment, has damaged the state, is now looking out for 850 million kunas. So imagine that amount. He's a completely innocent man today. He can apply not only for political office, he can be parliament president, he can be prime minister, even the president of the state. And it's not excluded that he might actually be, the man who bought the most expensive departments when he was the prime minister, the most expensive art that, wearing the most expensive watches, now that man is laughing at us and telling me what you can do, I'm formally and legally innocent. Chief Attorney, I listened to him once on the board, and otherwise a few of his shows that I could get to, he says we don't have people, we don't have money, we're all obstructive, we're powerless. But even if that's true, that can't be an excuse. I also said on the board and now I will repeat, with which Croatia defended itself in 1991, which we resources had at our disposal. We fought the 3rd Armed Forces in Europe, so somehow we ended up with them. I mean, where there's a will, where there's a heart, there's results. Where the state's attorneys are doing their job well there are criminals in prison and that's what Croatian citizens are interested in. Croatian citizens do not care who stole 10 euros. Watch out DORH makes a verdict on who stole 10 euros, you give me no laugh please with that. DORH, Mr. Bajic, Mr. Cvitan, however, was then Deputy State Attorney, putting Grandma Mink in jail for 600 kuna debt, and Minka was in prison, a 75-year-old woman, and the boss who stole 1.7 billion he walks in London, visits I don't know Piccadilly Circus. That when citizens see, they simply lose confidence in the DORH, not in the judiciary, lose confidence in all of Croatia and leave here and say what I will do here, go away with joy, despise their own country for such things. Citizens want to know what's going on with the exotic animal hunter Nadan Vidosevic. I was wondering, Mr. Cwitan, did you press charges against Ivan Vrdoljak? Did you press charges against Darko Milinovic? Not because I think they're guilty, but because there are terrible irresponsibility in some places where they're as responsible as you are. What's going on on Plitvice Lakes, you know that? Did you know that UNESCO will take away the status of world heritage in Plitvice Lakes? Who's to blame? That I'm going to investigate, that's my job? I don't think so. You say you don't have enough employees, you have, we don't have enough funds, you have, you only get for Agrokor 5 million kuna. I was deliberately looking at items in the 2018 budget, 70 million kuna got DORH. Those aren't small funds. You should have done something. You all say your work is obstructing. Who's obstructing? Please tell us now or forever remain silent. Don't ever say that anyone's obstructing you again if you don't say it now. Now or never. This is an opportunity for you, in the Croatian Parliament as you know you will no longer come, not by my decision, but by the decision of the gentlemen of the HDZ. And the public wants to know if there's an organized crime of their own in the system, which are the people in the system where they are. In July 2016, we had a dramatic report by SOA, which claimed that 20 judges are jeopardizing the national security of the Republic of Croatia. I assume these are high-ranking judges, not criminal judges, municipal judges, or I don't know any handball judges. Do you have any knowledge personally, is it among those 20 judges, are these Supreme Court judges? Are these the judges of the Constitutional Court, the State Judiciary Council? And can you tell us why the state doesn't allow the publication of the judge's property card? Is it true that judges have expensive cars and suits, watches in great disproportionate, with payments they receive, that is, with that property they could actually acquire. Is it true that the underworld buys judges gifts and that certain judges are enriched in hundreds, thousands, millions of kunas in the so-called. The part-time work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79869	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79870	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, first of all, I would like to thank you for your insistence that, although before Dinko Cvitana left, let us discuss his work in 2015 and 2016 and thus show the meaning of changing the rules of procedure, at least in this part, where, by the will of 30 representatives of the opposition, it is possible to put into the agenda some of the topics which are being avoided by the ruling. Today, it was almost absurd to listen to the presentation of representatives of the HDZ Club, Mr Simic, who initially said that it was illogical and that it was not good that for years, we had not discussed the report in 2015, 2016 and, in fact, by the will of his club, it was not possible. And perhaps in the background of everything there is another conflict inside the ruling ones, where the Osijek current pushes Vrdoljak, Seks, Glavas, they want Davor Petrovic, not Drazen Jelinic, as chief state attorney. We may still have another conflict of conscience within the HDZ ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79871	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79872	Thank you very much, Agent Jovanovic, that story with the new state attorney from Osijek, Mr. Petričević, and I heard it, I don't know exactly what it is, but if I've heard it well and thank God, we have a state attorney here now, this gentleman has been replaced. He was the president of the County State Attorney's Office and was replaced by Dinko Cvitan himself, so I am interested in how it is now possible and why the man is forced to be his deputy, and if he was replaced by him, let him say for what reason he replaced him, because the Croatian public also has the right to know, since we are here, above all, acting in the interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79873	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79874	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I can't at this point much about the complaints I have on the work of the State's Attorney, but I'll stick to about one topic and I'll explain it, but what you said, now that the state's attorney is leaving, we're now discussing the report. That makes a lot of sense. It really doesn't make sense right now. I don't know what's the use of that, except on the way out to Mr. Cwitan, we're gonna tell him what I think about his work. I don't think that makes any sense. The second thing, 5 to 12 determines who will be the new state's attorney, and we haven't had a chance to discuss it at all, at least a month before. It is a major failure by the HDZ to prevent the public from talking in time about what is current and is actually leading us to a final act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79875	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79876	Thank you very much, dear representative Alexic. Well, that's about the same story as it was in the case of Dalia Oreshkovic. So it's waiting for the last moment, it's practically the last second, that then as soon as we get there, we're in a hurry, we're in a hurry, the deadlines are, a single candidate is appointed, and then Parliament basically has no choice, that it can either vote for that one candidate or it can leave the assembly, and in any case 77 hands on the remote control will be raised. It doesn't matter what it's called, whether Petricevic, Jelenić, maybe even I would pass, only if that was the direction, so it's over the main base, the heart... Therefore, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic had at least that possibility, that her reports might be discussed in time, and Mr. Cvitan, even though I repeat, once again, was significantly above the Commission of Conflict of Interest, but here, better ever than never. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79877	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Attorney Dinko Cwitan will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79878	Many questions have been asked, however, I will stick to just some facts. First of all, I did not replace my colleague, Petričević, he is the acting official of the County State's Attorney's Office in Osijek and here is being replaced by the competition in progress and will end up under the rules, according to the law, as ordered by the procedure and the State's Attorney's Council will decide. Second of all, you've asked a lot of questions about some obstructions. I'm not talking about direct obstructions, and there's no evidence of that. If I knew someone directly obstructed me, I would react. However, it is simply a matter of division, responsibility, that I am not running away from my own responsibility, even three working days before the end of my term. But it is about the division of responsibilities, i.e. the enforcement of the legal roles of all institutions in the chain to a final verdict. So the bodies of discovery, the primary body of discovery is the principle police, then all the other state bodies. Where does the state's attorney get the information that the disproportionate property exists? Where does he get the information that he doesn't have, that he hasn't paid his taxes? Well, he doesn't have that information. The fact is that sometimes it's very difficult and slow going to collect that data. The fact is that there is a gap in the work of certain state attorneys, it responds to that. That's why there's a surveillance department... The Republic of Croatia which meets, or meets, all relevant requirements that come from both individuals and the competent national authorities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem of the second trial, I repeat, is in legislation, on the one hand, on the other hand, it certainly creates a negative perception of possible corruption, now and state attorneys and judges and police, and I don't know who. I can only say, responsibly, that I know the situation, that someone is deliberately obstructing, that they are committing a crime. If I knew, I'd do it by law. You've asked a lot of questions, it's almost impossible in a short time, and I won't be coming here anymore, I know that, but a little bit of this seemed like marriage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79879	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79880	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Cwitan. Well, you guys, year after year when you came here, I've been listening very carefully to your exposure, and I think there's an obstruction. You know where he is? So you keep talking, warning you don't have offices, sneezing, no cars, counting that average salary somewhere around 12,000 kuna gross in your entire system. How will the people they have, whose salary may be equal to the amount of allowance that a single defendant gives to his children daily, how will he process such persons? Where's the motivation, where are the working conditions? I think there's an obstruction. ...we're now discussing reports that have passed, a new state's attorney is coming, you'll be the same on that team, whether there will be obstructions still, if we'll continue to have this state's attorney's office driving Fiat Tempru from '95. How does the report say it's a year old?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79881	The answer of a respected state attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79882	Very short. So we have when we talk about salaries, we have salaries of deputy municipal state, county deputy and chief state attorney with these salaries can live. Our officers working for 3,500 kuna or doing a job for five jobs, believe me for five jobs 4,400 that I approve overtime, past the regulation, here publicly say, 100 and a few hours person, but it can be checked when she came in and when she came out every minute was recorded, to get that person for 120 overtime hours 1,700 kuna, it's almost a full working month. I wrote to the Ministry, at least I got approval that I could do it in three cases that we had because the system couldn't work. And there's a state's attorney's office if they'd hire people to share that job, they don't have anywhere to sit. The BOOK has been banned for three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79883	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79884	Thank you very much. Your Honor, State's Attorney. Well, we've heard a lot of accusations both against HDZ and many HDZ members and individual cases, etc. I am interested in whether, since we are talking about 2016, one subject in which our fellow Parliament accused his fellow living wall colleagues during the pre-election campaign means that they persuaded him to take 100,000 kunas and 500 euros a week convincing him that a satisfied man works better. Did you file any charges in this case? Whether we had any informed conversations or something since it was quite public and there was a lot of talk about it in public, and we didn't see the results or I found it somewhere inside your report, just if you're familiar with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79885	The answer of a respected state attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79886	Your Honor, sir, I don't know. I mean, honestly speaking subject... are not specific individual objects. This comes from the constitutional provisions of the Law on State's Attorney's Office, and believe me, I can't know everything that's going on. So in principle call everyone, if you have any enquiries as Parliamentarians, either as citizens, send an inquiry to the DORH if you have a complaint to work, send to the DORH Control Department you will get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79887	Thank you very much. The next debate will be that respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Attorney, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And today you can see how bad it is that we haven't discussed these reports in time. We know well that young people leave Croatia and if you ask them why they leave Croatia, one of the key reasons why corruption is listed. Therefore, the debate on the work of the DORH can also point to some of the problems we face in the fight against corruption, it can solve some of the problems of perception among citizens who need to understand that citizens, police, DORH, the judiciary have their place in fighting corruption and that they are all equally significant in doing so, and if one wheel does not work then the vehicle ultimately stops. Mr. State Attorney Dinko Cvitan made it clear on his arrival in March 2014 that his impression that local sheriffs are far more dangerous than it looks. And he tried to put an end to the local sheriffs in his work just now, and we all remember in 2014 when he started trying to end up with corrupt activities that were literally institutionalized in the city of Zagreb, Bandic and his criminally corrupt octopus, in which more than 20 people covered by DORH's investigative actions. Yet, it is very interesting that the case at the County Court was laid down for two years and was not being watched over. After that, Mr. Cvitan braved himself and dealt with Zdravko Mamić. We saw that the spiders were finally removed from the objects of Calmeta, that it started with Nadan Vidosevic and that I still do not list what proved to be good faith within the state's attorney's office. However, the state's attorney's office is just not enough to break up this institutionalised corruption that is destroying Croatia. Therefore, it is no wonder that Croatian citizens today believe that corruption has increased 58% in these three years and 94% of citizens believe Croatia is a highly corrupt country. According to the MUP data last year, the material damage to economic crime and corruption in Croatia amounted to more than 2.2 billion kuna, which is 50% higher than in 2016 when it was a billion and a half. So people of mine imagine if that trend continues what happens this year? In the case of corruption within this segment, it is interesting that in 2016 it was in decline compared to 2015 by 18% and total damage was 85 million kuna in those criminal acts which were in the Ministry of the Interior's report. And that is why it is a pity that this Parliament does not introduce a single practice that when we are discussing some extremely dangerous problems of Croatian society, we do not really have a debate that follows this course, that we have a report from the Ministry of State, a report from the state's attorney, a report on the work of the courts, when citizens would also get a much more complete picture of what is going on in Croatia and in which they can successfully fight corruption which is one of the biggest problems of Croatian society. Then citizens would believe it makes sense to fight corruption, and not like now, when asking if they would report a case of corruption 95% said they would not. And positive, of course, if we look at it, only 4%. Therefore, trust in institutions in the Republic of Croatia, in this case in the police, in the state's attorney's office, is at a low level in the judiciary, and without citizens there is no fight against corruption because it is citizens who report corruption and that enable those results to be achieved in the fight against corruption that will send a message that corruption is not worth it. If we look at the report, here's the public who's following our debate. In 2016, 169 persons were reported for corrupt crimes in a narrow sense, which accounts for 17.5% of all persons reported for this type of crime, for receiving bribes 40, for bribery 64, for bribing MPs 1, for trading influence 22, for illegal bargaining 17, for receiving bribes in economic business 2, for giving bribes in economic business 1, abuse of trust in economic business 14 and money laundering 7. Therefore, 40 persons were reported for the offence of taking bribes in 2016, which is 2 more than in 2015. Who were those who were reported? Police officers, customs officers, doctors, judges, municipal state attorney, chief and deputy mayor of municipalities, tax inspector, hunting inspector, supervisors at departments for technical inspection of vehicles, directors and employees of commercial companies, directors and bank employees, head of one department at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. And for the crime of taking bribes from these 40, criminal charges were rejected in relation to 20 persons, while a solution was made in relation to 20 persons to conduct an investigation. After the investigation was completed, 10 persons were charged while one person was suspended. The defendants include police officers, customs officers, department heads at the Ministry of Military Republic of Croatia, military inspector and director of a company. So, colleagues and colleagues, the purpose of the fight against corruption will be when we can finally monitor that there has been a complaint from citizens who have confidence in the system, that investigations be carried out afterwards, that the indictment be brought, that, after a fair and fair trial, we will receive a final judgment in which the person who has really been corrupt will be punished, in which all property will be taken away from him and thus the message will be sent that corruption will not be paid. That's what Mr. Cwitan was doing in his term. I have worked with him and as President of the National Council in 2007, 2011 and now in this meeting and I am here personally and as a parliamentary representative and as President of the National Council thanks to Mr Dinko Cvitana because we have always had absolute help with him, support and I believe that through this cooperation we have contributed to how successful the fight against corruption in Croatia is, but of course there is still a lot of work ahead of us, where this procedure against the main state attorney, which is a pillar of Croatian society, the institution from which it does not send a message to the citizens of Croatia, that the state's attorneyship in Croatia is something that can do without political pressures, because the way in which, not to solve, but to choose again Mr Cvitan, sends numerous questionnaires to a man who will come to his place, which is certainly not good, and therefore, at the end of this debate, I repeat that I should be able to change the way of choice of the main state law in order that we should be able to work in Croatia without any way in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79889	Thank you, we have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79890	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jovanovic. So I agree with you about Mr. Cvitan's work, and again, I stress, every year the man warned that they had no conditions, he and his team had no working conditions, no adequate spaces, no leaky spaces, no computers, two at the same table, and they had to review the files that were 400, 500 pages. Why? Because these actors are networked, be careful. In public procurement, we have 45 billion kuna. It's such a tough public procurement. It is a 15 000 contract that obliges the Public Procurement Act and more than 40,000 Bought Contracts. It's hard to get past that, and when you say why he's not applying? Because entrepreneurs keep quiet because they say if I keep quiet now it's my turn. There's a network for you when someone's gonna get a job. It can't be the state's attorney's office alone. If it does not involve citizens and all institutions, we will not have any progress in curbing corruption in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79891	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79892	He's a friend of Sagar's. When it comes to the conditions under which the State's Attorney's Office works, you remember that many of us have proposed to amend the items on which we have asked for greater resources for the state's attorney's office, but unfortunately none of them have been accepted by the ruling. Which is not a good message again, because some things really should be brought to the Assembly in a way that we should not look at from which side these suggestions come. Of course, public procurement is one of the largest, the area of the biggest corruption risk, and therefore the money does not come to Croatia because every fall on the scale of the corruption perception index automatically means the lower arrival of investments in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79893	The next replica of the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Jovanovic, you are right when you say that the departure of young people and the departure of our citizens from Croatia is generally well motivated by mistrust in institutions and that I absolutely agree with you. It's also the role of the state's chief attorney, but also all other institutions and police and others, therefore, the institution of the repressive apparatus, but... A very big one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must restore our citizens' trust in institutions, and we will only do so in a way that institutions do their job. I agree with you that it's very interesting not to re-election the attorney general, which casts doubt on his former work. You yourself spoke of a lot of important cases being initiated in his term and I think it would be very good to think about what you said, and that is to change the way the attorney general is elected to one term, the long term, and then the attorney general will not deal with any re-elections, but will do his job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79895	Thank you. The next debate is, and I'm sorry, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you're absolutely right. So it is crucial that in the Republic of Croatia, it is not good at the moment, which shows a number of surveys amongst citizens, where there is no trust in politics, politicians and bodies of the public government, and we ourselves contribute, in this case the majority, which all public authorities and some leaders in public authorities who, through their work, have in some way resented the members of the ruling ones, do not want to extend their mandates and thus send a very bad message to the public. Let us remember the Ombudsman, remember the President of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, remember the chairman of the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education, all of them are not allowed to continue their work in which they have indeed tried to fight to raise the integrity and credibility of politics, politicians and all bodies of public authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79897	The next debate is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79898	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear State Attorney Cvitan, a fundamental objection to your work, you are already assuming what it is, is a failure based on some applications from the Franak Association. I have to get the public to know the scale of the problem, since you've already processed it and ended up in the state's attorney's office. So, this case, as far as the state's attorney's office is concerned, or more of these cases, has already been resolved. Well, I'll be on my way from the beginning. The first criminal application filed by the State's Attorney's Office against Governor Vujčić, I think it was somewhere in 2012 and '13. in the year, it refers to the non-compliance of the CNB, where the CNB, not only did not do what was its duty, it did not monitor and regulate the work of the Croatian banks that were operating unfairly, but still do so, but, in fact, it kept one notice on its websites and because that notice was on the CNB website, which is why the association Franak 2012, 2013, I'm not sure when I personally wrote that criminal application, filed criminal charges against Governor Vujčić. So I'm just going to read what it said on that notice about consumer protection. So, on the consumer protection website, one sentence, one of the sentences and said: In its offers to citizens, consumers, banks operating in the Republic of Croatia usually offer their credit and deposit products at an administratively variable interest rate, an interest rate whose height changes according to the decision of the Bank's administration. You see, that sort of thing stood on the CNB pages for years, and we know that on 13 June 2014, it was ruled that this contract provision was unfair and therefore harmful because it is contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations, contrary to the Consumer Protection Act, and this notice, which stood on the CNB pages, was the basis to report to Governor Vujčić, that it does not do its job after being warned that the notice should be removed, after being warned that banks should be prevented in their own free will, they continued to keep such a notice to consumers in which it writes, banks may change their decisions by interest rates. In my opinion, this is a crime. It is a crime against Croatian citizenship. And it didn't happen anywhere west of Croatia. This only happened east of Slovenia. It was all done by all Croatian banks, everything. By negotiating a variable interest rate which is amended by the decision of the Bank, they have violated the Law on Mandatory Relations in Art. 269.-272. in which it simply writes, very simply, that the contractual provision must be specific, and in order to be specific, there must be data on which it is determined. And then the CNB says, no, contract provision doesn't have to be specific. And then we reported to the CNB, or Governor Vujčić, that he was holding the lottery to the banks and we thought it was a felony. If an institution that regulates the work of banks holds the lottery to banks in the movement of Croatian citizens, then I consider it a criminal offence. However, it was rejected. Let's move it aside. It's been a while. After that, the law regulates that precisely because these interest rates are not defined correctly, banks must, for all loans where they are not agreed, define a fixed part of the interest rate and variable parameters, align that parameter and a fixed part of the interest rate with the debtors and finally and contract. And it says criminal sanctions, if the bank doesn't contract with a parameter debtor, the bank will be fined from 80,000 to 200 thousand kuna, and the responsible person in the bank will be punished by a fine of 10,000 to 50,000 kuna. And such loans, by some free estimate, had over 100 grand at this point. And at this point, there are some 700 disputes going on in the criminal courts, some are closed, some are not, in which banks are just being accused that they did not have to do what they had to do under the Infringement Act, based on the Consumer Credit Act. I'm one of the ones who sued the bank, I'm one of those who got a first-degree sentence and Adico Banka, the former Hippo Bank, because I accused her in a misdemeanor court must pay 90,000 kuna criminal punishment. It's not quite enough yet, but I hope it will be because the scale is perfectly clear, the bank didn't agree with me until 1 April 2014, until it was time to contract the parameters for the change in interest rate. She later made the conversion, but it doesn't matter anymore. And precisely on the basis of this violation provision in the consumer credit law, Franak has reported 8 Croatian banks to you demanding that you initiate the law of law enforcement of banks. And you've decided that you won't do it because it's in the jurisdiction of the CNB because, under the Consumer Credit Act, it has the role of supervisors and regulators of the bank's work and it can also be prosecuted by law enforcement courts, that's correct, that's true. However, we also wrote to you in those misdemeanor reports that the CNB does not want to pursue banks because the CNB considers banks to work legally. Therefore, again after all the CNB claims that banks work legally, that they did not have to negotiate the parameters but was sufficient to define these parameters then send the debtor notice that the parameters were defined. If all debtors were to file criminal charges, it would also mean that they would receive these processes in their favour, it would mean 10 billion kuna in the Croatian budget. 10 billion kuna in the state budget. You explained to me in time that if you were to initiate these actions, it wouldn't be 10 billion because these processes have to be united and then it would be maybe a few dozen million kunas. All right, let's make it a few dozen million kunas, but you would thus show the public that banks are definitely judicially confirmed, breaking Croatian laws, and the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Consumer Protection and Consumer Credit Act. Unfortunately, you transferred the ball to the CNB. I have to say, I resent that. You also said you couldn't get into individual contracts, but now I'm going to explain to you how easy it was for you to determine that criminal liability of banks. That would be so simple. All we had to do was next. First, to determine how many consumer loans there were with a variable interest rate agreed before 10 September 2013 because until then the banks had not negotiated these parameters. That would give you an answer from the CNB. And how much of those contracts are still alive, how much of those contracts are still active. And you'd get a complete picture, you'd get an example. It is 100,000 contracts, in Hypo Bank as much, in Zagreb bank as you would get the total amount of these loans. And then, on the basis of this information from the CNB, you would ask each bank individually to provide you with evidence for each contract that they have agreed on a variable parameter and a fixed portion of the interest rate. So if it takes 10,000, 10,000, scanned parts of the contract or contract annex, the banks should submit to you that they have agreed on those parameters. But they wouldn't have anything to deliver to you, they would have delivered maybe 500 of those annexes to each bank because they didn't contract. It would be a corpus delict for you if banks hadn't agreed the parameters with consumers. And then you would continue to go very easily to the wrongful court and prove that the banks did not negotiate a parameter and a fixed part of the interest rate with Croatian consumers. Unlike you, your French colleagues after the unfairness and integrity of the CHF currency clause has been established in the loans agreed in France, it is another story but it is similar, so it was found rightly there that one bank, the only bank that has negotiated such loans, has negotiated an unfair contractual provision on the currency clause CHF and your French counterpart has initiated criminal proceedings against the only bank that has negotiated such unfair contractual provisions. So, if all the banks in Croatia, absolutely everything in foreign ownership negotiate a unfair way of changing interest rates, it is a joint venture. It is the drive of Croatian citizens without precedent. According to my free estimate, at this point, banks are owed to citizens by around 5 billion kunas of subscription interest. And we could've made some money in the budget, and we could've proved to the court that the banks were doing it massively. This is how I'm just saying it, we all know it is, but we don't have a court certificate for these parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79899	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79900	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear State Attorney, representatives of the ministry. As I said earlier in the replica, here we have reports that are late but the fact is that the government has decided, by ruling to choose a new state attorney, that I would try only to highlight a few things through this debate that I think are very important or that they are very obvious what is in the Croatian state, now the main culprit for everything that has been wrong is going to be a state lawyer. It will be so for you, simply so operate institutions that are also much more guilty from this Parliament who simply obediently raise their hands for most things that are not good in the legislation and, of course, by listening to directives that are not on the welfare of Croatia neither Croatian man nor Croatian economy nor the protection and stability of Croatia and the development of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that Croatian people and citizens are ordinary, and you are aware of that, live with the people, that they do not believe in the judiciary and neither in the DORH nor in the other institutions. It's simple because like I said, big fish are free. Those who have become rich in privatisation have essentially taken part in wealth such as the telecommunications that our fathers have, and so have you, the older ones, who have paid for it, have simply gone into foreign hands, have not been compensated by those who paid for it, and this is our people and, of course, now they have a huge profit and, of course, those who have made it possible for them were the heads of the company and no one has touched them and so many other situations and INA and other white nights I have mentioned, so wherever we turn. We need to know that the political system in Croatia was, it is democratic, but the fact that it is Agrokor system. We simply need to know that and I am because of that, he mentioned a colleague in front of me, the CNB who is the internal policy regulator and who needs to be careful about the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. But the fact is and you're familiar with that, because I filed a criminal report, that the Stability Council, where it is, the greatest stability of strategic companies, where most of the spells of the CNB, governor, HANFA and the Ministry of Finance have its own representative, i.e. The minister, made it possible for Todorovic to have 10 billion kunas, with no bonds, no benefits, 10 billion kunas. It's a system that was politically called Agrokor, no one should mention it, Mr Cvitan, Todoric, no political elite, no left or right. They didn't mention him. They praised him until the moment this case opened. And of course it was that way and that so much money got in the way and that at one point the economy was mingling because 10 billion kunas of uncovered bonds were in traffic. Now imagine that someone gives you 10 billion kunas of credit without cover. It was a blow to financial stability, to monetary policy, but that's why he knew the governor, he says himself, but of course that institution didn't do its job and of course it would be your fault. That's why I filed a criminal complaint, among other things... Vujčića, Relje Martić, Damir Odak, means the vice governor, Barbusch,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Vice Governor, Faulenda and Perescan and of course you're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] against HANFA, because it simply allows, instead of democracy, the political economic system in Croatia, to be called Todorovic or Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't justify here those who were before, were ministers, were, all of them know it all. I'm sorry those who weren't here in the government knew that. However, this man, no one was allowed to mention, until the moment, until a group of people, who had the courage to talk about it, but I am sorry that it didn't happen 15, 20 years ago. Now is the easiest time to beat up on Cvitan, according to Todorovic, it's the easiest thing for them, because, of course, now they're the targets, now you're all boasting about them, and believe me, that no political party, option, because the system in Croatia, politically, basically Agrokor in small. The appointment and ministers went from Agrokor, the funds and incentives went to Agrokor so were destroyed 2/3 of Croatia and we must all be together disappointed, not only by the state's attorney, but all together. What's at this point, we have 2/3 of Croatia's empty, demographic image is catastrophic, the banks did what they wanted, because simply the CNB didn't regulate what was supposed to be regulated. Here is the data, that for years means, interest, 11% had more interest in me in Croatia than in Austria, which had physical and legal persons. So they sucked out all our citizens' money and what was in the socks and what was in the banks. So in Croatia, unfortunately, you're worth the rule, the poor girl and God are heavy. Whoever was there in that political elite, such as Agrokor, Agrokor's political system, it's just hard to expose it, still those same brewers who let it happen, so a monopoly. We have a monopoly, here, I've sent it to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Vlaha Orepić, so I got one answer that didn't go too far. Let's say we did, we gave public authority and a monopoly vehicle centre. So they can do what they want to do. And you heard why, that there's me former police ministers and everyone who has been with the police, they just have co-ownership relations, and of course they're doing what they want because they have a monopoly. They do whatever they want. I can also move locally, so from the weapons itself to the Cetinski region, the money that went into the private pocket never came back, one 4.5 times took a criminal report, so it came from a verdict like Sanader, the Constitutional Court made a decision, that, the solution, killed Sanader's solution, so they said that war profit, essentially that law was invalid in 2010. Just anti-constitutional, that's what I got from you. And simply, the people don't trust the judiciary. Here, I tell my colleagues here, the Ministry of Justice, they don't trust the people, and they also don't trust the State's Attorney's office, and I'm sorry they don't trust the Croatian police, because they just don't have a reason to believe it. The big fish are now run by Croatia, both the political elite and the complete system. And I believe that you know that it's capillaryly complicated. As far as the local sheriffs are concerned, that's what you said at the beginning, that local sheriffs, would like to know about it too, colleague Jovanovic mentioned earlier, here in your report you say, are you satisfied with these results of your work, because we need to know that we have the largest, that we have more cities and municipalities than China and the United States together, so it's not your fault again. Of course, the more municipalities and cities, the easier the political options will remain and the county will remain in power, that's their electoral body, but still, I think, that part of the local sheriffs, is being swept under the radar, and I think you hit a good target at that time, just here, I expect you to tell me yours, so yours and now we hear in the House these same slanders repeating, the slanders that have already been shown in court as slanders. And why is that? So because no one is afraid of justice, for the slanderer knows that it will be years ago, ask God whether he will experience a judgment of power. Then he slanders as he pleases. And just one more thing, Mr. Cvitan, the spread of national and religious hatred, please, football stadiums, squares, beaches, happened in front of theaters, at concerts, stupidity, dumb as a thong, that hatred as sharp as a knife. Well, isn't there one of the deputy state attorneys when the police don't see it, and the police keep telling us they haven't noticed anything. So don't any of the deputy state attorneys see anything, so if they ask the police for a reconnaissance, take a look at the footage, see who welcomed it there with a Ustasha greeting, see who was causing national and religious hatred, and we will persecute it. I assure you that 100 convictions would stop rioting, no one likes to go to jail, no one likes to go to jail. Well, if those fools, those idiots, for their idiotism, were convicted of prison and the spread of national and religious hatred, it would have gradually stopped. I'm asking you why this isn't happening. Why, while the police are already like that, and the police are watching it, the police are afraid of their minister, and the minister comes from a certain policy and that particular policy and the ruling party is sympathising something. Well, she has a right to sympathise that, too. It's disgusting what she likes, it's terrible, but my God, she's right. But the deputy attorney doesn't have the right to respect that because it's a felony, so they need to be prosecuted. Now watch, if the president publicly says that "For Home Ready" is an old Croatian greeting. So did someone invite her to talk to explain how old she was, where she read that he was old, who first used him as an old Croatian greeting. So let him explain it in an informed conversation. I mean, maybe the lady can explain, so either she doesn't know history or she's a total ignorant or a magnificent uprising. But some of it will come out. I'm the only one who wouldn't let go if I were the attorney general, I wouldn't let things go that way, anyway. Because these are dangerous things. Seselj collapsed in Belgrade today, trampled the Croatian flag, insulted our delegation. The President of the Parliament is interrupting his visit. It's tolerating national hatred. That's, that leads to it. Therefore, it must not be tolerated, it must not be allowed because it ultimately leads, if possible, to crime, war crimes, peace of mind. So it's one area where I don't think we've shown enough, not as a community, not as a society, or maybe even, if I can blame you for something, ineffectiveness in that area or insufficient efficiency. Otherwise, if I were to evaluate your entire work and you and your predecessor, then I can only commend it. I think you've been doing a great job and now you're being replaced, you're being rejected, you're being proud of it, I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79901	Thank you very much. The next debate is that respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79902	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Mr. Cvitan, you said in your address to this House of Commons, there's garbage, but it's not on the state's attorney, the attorney general, to walk around the dump. It takes synergy to end things. With the first piece of your sentence, I can't agree. It's not for the state's attorney to walk, walk in the gardens of Eden, but breathe in toxic sulfur, hell's money rising above human garbage. It's responsible, but it's also hard and unpleasant work. With the other piece, I agree, it needs synergy. The state's attorney's office is just one piece of a judicial apparatus. But not only does it need the synergy of a judicial apparatus, but it also needs the synergy of politics, and so does the legislative acts that are responsible for what the laws look like, criminal law, criminal proceedings, the State's attorney's law, and the executive authorities, who, as a result, decided not to confirm you or propose you to be the head of state's attorney. I think you can be proud of that, it's circumstantial proof of your quality work. Because those denied by HDZ certainly did well. You don't need better evidence for that. How does the second pillar of justice work, important, courts? I'd say different. Different, depending on the type of object. For example, when it comes to blood fractions, I think they work quite effectively. Let's just take one case, Paravignier. The offence was committed in 2011 and in 2017 the Supreme Court, after 2... , after again... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Turned into a second-degree ruling by the County Court and sentenced Paravinja to 20 years of law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the subject is finished. From the day he was arrested to this final verdict, Paravignja was in custody. The other type of case is the trial of politicians and that's why the public loses confidence in the judiciary, and it blames you, not guilty or indemnity, because you're all these cases, the state's attorney's office processed and sent to the courts. For example. 2007 Sanader organised a meeting with the directors of public companies, the FIMI MEDIA affair began. We don't have a final verdict yet. And when we do, we don't know. It's 70 million kunas, HDZ first-degree convictions as a criminal organization, fined with 5 million kunas, and it has to return the stolen 24 million kunas to the state budget, but we don't have a strong verdict, we're now in a phase of a powerful indictment against HDZ as a criminal organisation. We're waiting for a new trial, which will again be first-degree and second-degree, and then re-aligned, restored, suspended, and then re-trial. ... admitted Cobankovic, admitted Fiolić, settled socially beneficial work, damage 38 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Start time 2008 There's no power yet. So Glavas acts in 1991 war crimes, followed by a new trial, who knows first degree again and second degree, we will and ever welcome power. And Kalemata, and Vidoshević, and so on. etc. Of these politicians, the trial of the rightful Roncevic and it was released. He was released for what? He was sentenced to 4 years in prison in the first trial, but then the senior court of county returned to the retrial with a instructions not to question whether he was, because you rightly accused him, the state's attorney had rightly filed charges, whether he was buying the most favourable or expensive, but whether he was the most expensive one he bought, whether he paid more than the most expensive bidder asked. It's an absurd instruction. Well, after such instructions, of course he must be released. But that's what puts the judiciary at risk. The state's attorney's office is accused, well-indicted, but then the County Court gives such instructions that the politician, behold, the HDZ wonders, will be released. The judiciary is, in some cases, too slow. Let's just say in civil disputes, sometimes it takes decades, decades. And even in criminal acts that run on private charges, it took a long time, but it took six years for a slanderer, former accounting chief Gavelle to be convicted of libel. And now we hear in the House these same slanders are repeated, slanders that have already been shown in court as slanders. And why is that? So because no one is afraid of justice, for the slanderer knows that it will be years ago, ask God whether he will experience a judgment of power. Then he slanders as he pleases. And just one more thing, Mr. Cvitan, the spread of national and religious hatred, please, football stadiums, squares, beaches, happened in front of theaters, at concerts, stupidity, dumb as a thong, that hatred as sharp as a knife. Well, isn't there one of the deputy state attorneys when the police don't see it, and the police keep telling us they haven't noticed anything. So don't any of the deputy state attorneys see anything, so if they ask the police for a reconnaissance, take a look at the footage, see who welcomed it there with a Ustasha greeting, see who was causing national and religious hatred, and we will persecute it. I assure you that 100 convictions would stop rioting, no one likes to go to jail, no one likes to go to jail. Well, if those fools, those idiots, for their idiotism, were convicted of prison and the spread of national and religious hatred, it would have gradually stopped. I'm asking you why this isn't happening. Why, while the police are already like that, and the police are watching it, the police are afraid of their minister, and the minister comes from a certain policy and that particular policy and the ruling party is sympathising something. Well, she has a right to sympathise that, too. It's disgusting what she likes, it's terrible, but my God, she's right. But the deputy attorney doesn't have the right to respect that because it's a felony, so they need to be prosecuted. Now watch, if the president publicly says that "For Home Ready" is an old Croatian greeting. So did someone invite her to talk to explain how old she was, where she read that he was old, who first used him as an old Croatian greeting. So let him explain it in an informed conversation. I mean, maybe the lady can explain, so either she doesn't know history or she's a total ignorant or a magnificent uprising. But some of it will come out. I'm the only one who wouldn't let go if I were the attorney general, I wouldn't let things go that way, anyway. Because these are dangerous things. Seselj collapsed in Belgrade today, trampled the Croatian flag, insulted our delegation. The President of the Parliament is interrupting his visit. It's tolerating national hatred. That's, that leads to it. Therefore, it must not be tolerated, it must not be allowed because it ultimately leads, if possible, to crime, war crimes, peace of mind. So it's one area where I don't think we've shown enough, not as a community, not as a society, or maybe even, if I can blame you for something, ineffectiveness in that area or insufficient efficiency. Otherwise, if I were to evaluate your entire work and you and your predecessor, then I can only commend it. I think you've been doing a great job and now you're being replaced, you're being rejected, you're being proud of it, I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79903	The Republic will be given by the esteemed representative of Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79904	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Stazić, talk about the hate speech and not remember all your outbursts in the Croatian Parliament, which were directed against the Croatian Catholic Church, against the Croatian defenders, against the Croatian president, and against everything that is sacred and ideologically similar to you in no millimeter, because your being built from the relics of the past, as well as many who have squandered to the Croatian Parliament and have done damage to you by their actions. Mr. Trailer, when I mentioned your brother, I didn't speak without arguments. And... Post, are you going to sue me along with him or not? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79905	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79906	A relic of the past, I really now believe that Croatia is at a turning point, whether it will be in the future or in the Middle Ages because such forces today work in Croatia. I think I'm on the side of the force of light that wants to go forward. For you, I think you're pulling us into the Middle Ages. It's a matter of perception. When I spoke of the Catholic Church, I spoke in negative phenomena and negative actions of the church. If I warned the President of the Republic, I was talking about what I disagreed with her and I think I spoke with her right. And as for your slanders, I'll see you in court.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79907	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Vilibor Sincic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next up is Ivan Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next debate should be the respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next debate should be a respected representative of Nikola Grumoja. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And now he's finally going to say something to a respected state attorney, Dinko Cwitan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79908	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, at the end of this term, I am grateful to the parliamentary representatives who, as they have said, dragged me here to the Parliament to say a few words in the Assembly, as far as possible in these conditions concerning the work of the state-law organisation in 2015 and 2016. I'm grateful to them. I've been to the plenary session twice, I've been on the council boards 10 times. For these two reports, I've been on the council committees six times, and I feel like I know this report by heart, but behind the work of putting together this report there have been a lot of colleagues, a lot of people, and if the report is carefully read, with all the criticism that you can have, this is about a very serious material that can be used to make, I would dare say, scientific papers. Of course, there are criticisms that the report should be like this or something. I agree that we should have criteria as applied in the EU. However, we had a major problem with the pooling of statistics. In fact, the police, when we talk about criminal acts, the persecution of perpetrators, statistics lead to the number of crimes, and that's logical. When we speak, our statistics, as far as the known perpetrators are concerned, refer to the number of persons, not the number of acts. One person can commit more crimes, by actually working against unknown perpetrators on the same criteria as the police do. On the other hand, courts have statistics on the number of cases. What's good about it now, as it unites all together, is that in the future it needs to be answered for more transparent and effective control and supervision, what this Parliament has over all the bodies, and so on by the state's attorney. Controls in the sense that it gives its suggestions and that the work of the state's attorney general makes it better. I thank you all now for here, let me say, the opportunity and honor to be in this house many times and wish you every good, to you and to your families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79909	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate with that, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. ... You lost your right, you weren't here. ... [[You can't hear it.]] You've lost your right to that. [[You can't hear it.]] Let's take a look at the Rules of Procedure, come on, let's not waste any time. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement establishing an EU-LAC International Foundation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 314. Have a nice evening. The session was interrupted at 17.55.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79910	Annual report on the operation of the DORH for 2015. The applicant is DORH, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The annual report on the work of the DORH for 2015 is being taken into account". Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79911	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been waiting to hear what you're going to say and what conclusion you're going to make so I'm asking you to give me in accordance with Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament allow me to explain for two minutes why the SDP Representatives Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79912	You can leave the scene. No, these are new rules, you're right from the scene. This is a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79913	Then let me also declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure so that I may address the committee if it is not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79914	So this isn't a club exposure, this is a two-minute break, and I'm giving it to you. And you have the right to explain in two minutes why you're looking for a break for the SDP counseling club, so there's no need to come for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79915	I'm asking if you can grant me a breach of the Rules of Procedure before I move on to exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79916	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79917	So thank you, Mr. President. You have injured Article 248(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because in the Croatian Parliament and in business and in practice it is stated that the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives is then expressed from the speaker of the Croatian Parliament. In the meantime, we changed our relationship to the breaks, of course that once the request for a break was explained from place because after a five-minute break, it was explained why we were looking for it. An explanation of why a break is required today is given before and in the way that was previously given from the pay phone I hold that would be now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79918	Thank you. So, I'm not going to meet you, I'm not going to even give you a warning because I think you legitimately requested here a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you think I'm not right to refer your objection to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and let him decide whether we will speak from a place or from a pay phone in these situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79919	I thank you. It is also clear to you that for formal reasons I have sought a breach of the Rules of Procedure just to get a chance and now I am announcing that I will address the Committee on the Constitution. Can I move on to an explanation of the break? Thank you. [[/The President's incursion: here you go.]] Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For two years, the Croatian Parliament has not discussed reports on the operation of the DORH, we have not discussed for two years how perhaps the most important body in the Republic of Croatia is responsible not only for the prosecution of criminal offences but also for the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, which the Republic of Croatia represents by law in all disputes against and in favour of it. Taking into account the opposition, it had to ask and the application of new business methods managed to discuss this report, which also coincided with the debate on the appointment or selection of a new head of state lawyer we chose a few minutes ago. We of the SDP Representatives Club consider it totally unacceptable to vote only on receiving knowledge report on the operation of the DORH. I believe that our obligation as parliamentary representatives is by a clear vote and by expressing our views on whether we agree with the way the DORH did his job or whether we agree with the way Mr. Cvitan's chief attorney has acted. Therefore, we cannot accept that we only vote on accepting or not accepting this report. I am also informing you, Mr. President, but the entire Croatian public, that because of the way you have proposed to vote on it, we will have to be abstentioned, and I also suggest that the first vote be made on the conclusion of the SDP Club of Representatives that this report is accepted or not. In view of the business department, I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-18-0.u79920	Okay. You got it. Continuing at 12.36 minutes. Here you go. It's 12.26 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2015, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 72 for and 11 abstentions and 9 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDP have proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a conclusion that reads, a report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2015. It is essential to vote on this case, because we have just reached a conclusion in line with the proposal of the Assembly home working body.
