ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78369	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which Stjepan Curaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78370	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we also had a vote on the proposal that my colleague Grbin has now mentioned, and as we said in the debate then and now I am speaking here, I was also abstentioned on this proposal at the Justice Committee. In fact, I think he's in his nature, the intensity is good, and there's no dispute there. I think that what I'm really missing today is what fills the news column and all the media, and this amount of transparency, and they've paid for it both the price of both the political and the function and the former commissioner and the former vice president. But what's the problem is that we can't take the impression when we talk about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, and we're talking about Agrokor all the time, and we should generally talk about all the potential future extraordinary commissioners, maybe in the other nine or God even more companies, that it's just about one that's not anymore, then it was the intensity when that law was proposed, the amendments to the law. But it's simply wrongly addressed with the wrong law. The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests speaks in its Articles 1 and 2. It's about a potential conflict between private and public interest, it's about public duties, it's about obligations, very little about rights, more about those people's obligations. And I think that we could and should have dealt with this through other things through the amendments to the Law on Extraordinary Administrations in System Companies than in this Law, because this law de facto cannot speak of public duty as a principle of private money, a private company because I would be in conflict with myself where the Committee of Prophets decides on its own money and has the first operative who is as a public official and who has some other obligations that come from it. Not to mention the subsequent rights that are now not mentioned because he has no such thing, so we can talk about some constitutional provisions and equality before the law, there are no provisions or rights guaranteed to him by the Labour Act, nor by the Law on State officials, local officials, or anything. I think it would be very illusory to declare someone a public official and then give him six plus six average salaries paid by Agrokora's administration, so just a net of 70,000 kuna, and then there would be three, four million for these current three commissioners. So Article 14 and Article 20, so I say hello and I said hello, and all the time, she doesn't want anything to be hidden and we lacked that amount of transparency. I've already said it several times and we've been talking all the time about who wrote the law, didn't write, didn't know it, didn't know it, so of course the prime minister should know what laws came to him at a tight cabinet and what he suggested, so everything else would be irresponsible and irresponsible. And there's no problem with writing the law, the problem is what came after that. And it's not a problem in the selection of advisors and that it went with the approval of the Ministry of Economy, the problem is in the selection of subcontractors of these advisers. There she unnecessarily threw herself and contaminated the entire process and process that must be focused and must be our main focus. We must not allow ourselves to spill everything and throw people in despair and on the labour market and bring the state before collapse because something was quick or something was done urgently. And I agree, I think that's what the Prime Minister said there were some things to fix. But I say once again, I'm not bound by law writing, it's controversial what happened after the government did its job, didn't do it, and it's protected itself enough, and it's given itself to privates who are used to doing it on the market, not taking into account that they're still suggesting. And here I say once again, I think the main problem of this proposal is wrongly addressed law and legislation because we are bringing this law into conflict with its very intensity, which is protection between private or private and public interests. And we here have a private company that finances with private money by creditors and we can't limit their rights and that's why it needs to be handled in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78371	Let's move on now. Honorable representative Maria Puh on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78372	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in a country that has reached the standard in the rights of national minorities, which have in our time been the reason why we have become an internationally recognised state, and at the end of these days, the referendum initiatives deal with reviewing and reducing the rights of national minorities. In 2018, in the 21st century. Is it possible that now that we all have to work together to increase wages, ensure better education, work on employment growth and attract investment, prevent young people from leaving the country, that some of the biggest problems represent the rights of national minorities achieved? A few years ago, the same-sex communities came together on impact. Today they're on the strike of a national minority, and I'm asking you who's next? Perhaps next time, perhaps you who wear glasses will stand in the way of someone, perhaps with the next referendum issue as an unwanted group, you will mark yourself unknowingly single women over 35 years old. Everyone, but every single one of us can be characterized as a minority by something. Whether with your looks, whether with your attitude or with your commitment. As we have already said these days, we do not expect from Željka Markic and the Living Wall, who are united in the referendum initiative, to be the President of all citizens, whether they belong to the majority or to the minority. Responsible policy must stand up to the initiatives that drag us back and oppose the population that inevitably leads to the collapse of democratic order and destruction. I want to live in an open and tolerated country and the HNS will do everything in our power to preserve Croatia as an open and tolerated country in which all people, regardless of the differences, are invited to give what is best for the benefit of all our citizens. In such Croatia I believe and will fight for such Croatia, Croatia will fight for such Croatia. And I stress that as soon as the initiative's signatures come to the Parliament, the HNS will insist on assessing the constitutionality of the referendum issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78373	Now we're gonna stop for taking a stand on behalf of the club. We have three clubs registered, so I'm going to ask first on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, a colleague of Stjepan Curaj, to come for a pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78374	Thank you, Vice President. So, I think it's absolutely clear today that the topic is and whatever we had the opportunity to discuss in an urgent procedure, discuss also individually 10 minutes in front of the Club plus the replicas of every MP who could have and discuss it also all that was needed. Today we're back on the same subject and good. It is not a problem, although a business model has been found and is being used as such, and we are not talking about the amendment that the Rules of Procedure provided for here to be discussed but rather about the very core. Well, then we could hear today very often conflicting reasons why we don't need something. The first is economic viability and that citizens will not pay or pay someone else's gas, some tariffs to keep the project sustainable. So it's already a contradiction, by the way, if we're talking about land, and like this, it's good, and by the way it costs 50% more in capital building and 30% in operating costs or maintenance. So how many companies would have to subsidize there to make it physical for the company to work. By the way, the open season competition is open by the end of this month. If we don't reach a minimum 20% lease, it won't be any of the projects. Because such economic sustainability is that if we have a minimum of 20% with certain tariffs to subsidise, if it does not affect the price of gas to citizens or can because it is a three-year guarantee price. Then how would the landers still be? Then I guess it'd be okay to pay citizens more. Of course, when I talk about environmental impact, a study that couldn't have been done if it wasn't foreseen by the county's spatial plan of such a phase building of floating and land, there wouldn't have been at all, had a basis for working and said exactly what can be done when it comes to an open system, a closed system, which are criteria that are strict and which have to be implemented. There must be no compromise. But there is, of course. And that's 0.1 milligrams, so 10 portions of thousands of pounds per litre. Because it's supposed to be a waste of the environment. And I say again, the project is invaluable, then there won't be any environmental impact because something it does can't affect the environment. So we have to decide first what our main reasons are. Why is that? So, colleagues agree, that it should, but not that one but another who is more expensive, who will put more burden on citizens, who will be more invaluable, is the question of its sustainability. But they say we agree we should. Well, of course you should. In two years, we may have 20% of our own gas production. We'll have to import 80%. Someone said this was like the insurance policy you're taking to say, God forbid we should never, evil shouldn't. May our supply routes from Russia always be cheap, let our citizens have as cheap energy as possible. How are we gonna do that? So even with having and negotiating an alternative, let's say if they say no, now the gas on the market has gone to 70 euros or however much, twice as expensive, than it is now going, we say ok, we're cheaper then to take an ingested which is 40, 50. Yeah, we can negotiate or use that supply route at the end of the line. The colleagues said why we do it for the EU, so of course we put ourselves on the map as an energy map of Europe, as someone who does not sit on the sidelines and asks no one, but as one who actively creates. I would like the most honest EU to pay for the construction and the cost of the subsidy without all income coming to us. So who wouldn't like that? On the other hand, Article 6 says there is no alienation of the company for 10 years, it remains owned by Croatia, the Croatian company is owned by the Croatian ship, so I do not believe that some Filipinos will come, not under the Filipino flag but by Croatia, because it is owned by Croatian companies, Plinar and HEP, or LNG Omisalj, which is owned by HEP. I think as far as the aesthetics of the location, that today if we were to discuss here with the same logic, we wouldn't have in Krk or the JANAF terminal where oil comes in, much greater risk, or maybe airport, or at the end of the line there, Petrochemy, or then this LNG, because all of this could hurt and we, with all that they have, are recording records there. So I think there's a lot of talk and a little talk about content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78375	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78376	We continue to make a statement on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78377	Thank you, Vice President. Here I am using this opportunity to sum up a little bit in terms of currentity, today is the agenda of the Law on Education and Education, in fact we see that a bit of a spear is being broken, maybe some don't care, but surely in the last year we can say more is being done, than in the past 25 years. We see, not because we say it and because we want it to be, of course we do, but that's what our citizens see. Well, let's just say these days we're witnessing an increased interest in enrollment in vocational schools. The same vocational schools where we have adopted the new Law on Professional Education over the past few months allowed the creation of a centre of competence, the investment of a billion kunas of European funds in vocational education, when we look at it is almost 40 million kuna per county and more, if there are more than one school in some counties, which will be invested right in implementation programmes, in equipment, in addition, in everything that our students would be competitive on the labour market tomorrow, but not only in material things, but we are also talking about the way we work. So it's more learning with work and learning from work. Not those practices that just work out and get signed and nobody gets anything, but exactly where those who know how to do and perform programs. That's what's only been done in the last year. The public recognizes the interest. Speaking of school for life, experimental implementation of curricula reform, schools that have been around 72 or how many, 74 if I'm not mistaken, huge student interests. They don't have enough class, why? So because new funds are being invested there and going through new ways and learning and equipping these classrooms and everything that we actually had to do years ago and everything that we all swear has to be, we look up to others, and when we start to realize it, we just watch something wrong. Of course you can always do better and that any good suggestion is always welcome. Today, of course, when we talked about STEM scholarships, I don't know about the introduction of mandatory IT into fifth grade, 26 million kunas for the purchase of IT equipment, so absolutely a lot of it, so scholarships 3333% are up this year. So I think the results speak for themselves, and only a year has passed. We need to be aware that most of these laws went into two readings, that there was a need to prepare well, a public debate, that it needed to be well adapted, that it wasn't just that. Of course when we talk about European resources, it's not just because we said here's what we've done, so it's gonna take time. But still, in a year and now we have here at the end before the summer break and these sessions as the crown of the Law on Education and Education. Again, I am particularly bothered by this observation where, on purpose, politicalism, public courtship, we are talking about how someone is being discriminated against. I can't believe it. Well, then we can say that the entire education system is discriminatory. Because imagine for some high schools, for some colleges it takes more points, more knowledge, for some less. How's that? What should be all for the same. Of course it hasn't been like that since the ages, who has what grades, how anyone goes to state high school, before the receptions, that's how the ranking lists are created, so we already have our differences. Differences in the implementation program so the Minister did not write the implementation programmes of individual colleges and no one can tell me that the person whom the professor of a particular subject, sociology has the same knowledge and competence as a class teacher with enhanced sociology. So where's that? Then why study sociology? Or talk about math, as I mentioned. A math teacher who basically studied to be a teacher at school equalize him with a dipl. A math engineer with PMF on the labour market. And now someone's looking for certain accounting operations and everything, so all you have to do is look at the implementation program of how much, how much knowledge, how much of it. And there's already a difference. And that's the only difference to be respected. But we know we're missing a teacher. Teachers are the basis of everything, in general both teachers and teachers. And that's why we can't close the door for anyone. And that makes this law possible. But we need to be aware of how many objects he listens to and... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u78378	Thank you, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83617	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, here we can go, as announced with our agenda, firstly: - Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of genetically modified organisms, first reading, P.Z. No. 291 Proposer is a representative of Miro Bulj based article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83618	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministry representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal that I referred to in the procedure, which is a new law on the ban on genetically modified organisms. Based on the law and the Constitution, implementation of the Article. 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I have sent this law into the procedure to protect health as the basis of social policy and legal order and public morality, and also with this sum of both the Croatian economy and Croatian agriculture. This law defines the issue of breeding, importing and placing on the market for all individual GMO groups throughout the Republic of Croatia. This proposal does not allow the use of GMOs limited or deliberate introduction of GMOs into the environment for any purpose, in particular to place GMOs on the market for cultivation throughout the Republic of Croatia, as well as to transfer or transport GMOs through the territory of the Republic of Croatia, except for medical purposes. The method of use of GMOs for medical purposes will be prescribed by the competent health ministry by a special regulation. This law also provides for damages which have occurred and damages are prescribed for all those which, contrary to this proposal, are imported to GMOs, placed on the market, work or products of GMOs or products containing or originating from GMOs. They are also obliged to compensate for the damage caused by cross-border transfer, transit, use of environmental introduction and the placing of GMOs in products containing, consisting of or originating from GMOs on the market or in accordance with specific regulations. Administrative oversight of these application of this bill will be carried out by the competent authority in its own work as described in this Act. This law requires the protection of organic production throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Currently in the Republic of Croatia we have about 750,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land, which is more than similar to organic production. We all know that we are a tourist country and that we can also use this land for economic purposes, develop agriculture, ecologically, we have a gastronomy, branded, famous for our food, but we have very little to gain from it. So we have huge economic losses and agricultural losses, and so I think that this is a huge potential of 750,000 hectares of unprocessed surfaces, because simply the introductory lobbyes that help GMOs in the products that we import, because the current law says that we can import and market. So we put on the market, we can put GMOs, and this is what we forbid for these reasons, which is simply, here we are in an unequal position for our farmers, so let's say, pigs, which we most import into Croatia pig, most of all, we are importers, I will tell you later on, about how much of this is being done, what is the damage to Croatian agriculture, of course it's targeted. Of course it was done, according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion, that they will not, at the moment, be unable to accept this law, at this point. I don't know when that moment's gonna be. When everything is destroyed. So we're talking about our very important potential and capacity, and it would be good, since we're a maritime country, we have a huge no. agricultural surfaces, that our products are on the table in restaurants during the tourist season, not GMO products from other countries and bigger have the benefits of these multinational companies and GMOs and those who use GMOs, and later I will tell you what they use and what everything is in the meat that is imported into the Republic of Croatia and which is why they are increased of course and diseases and what does the Public Health Office say about it? So these provisions simply prohibit a complete ban on GMOs in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, except I said for medical purposes. I would have to go here now to say another dissatisfaction from the government and its opinion, because we advocates must protect and protect people's health and that is our obligation, we must protect our production, agriculture and our economic potential. It is already on our shelves in the Republic of Croatia, over 400 GMO products, which is causing great damage to our economy, and it is doing great damage to our agriculture in particular. Once again, I must stress this, how the government has responded in its opinion to this bill. In the first sentence of the second sentence, he says, "The government of the Republic of Croatia at this time supports the proposed law in question." At this point. So what's the moment? Two-thirds of Croatia is empty because of what billions of dollars we give for importing unhealthy food, poor food that result in not only economic damage but also affects people's health and of course encourages the eviction of people from these areas because, of course, our farmers cannot compete with these food producers who use GMOs in their cultivation of agricultural goods. Croatia is in the world I said the most pork imports with us. Imports in 2017 of food products increased by 12%. Last year 71 kg of fruit and vegetables per capita were imported in Croatia, with billions, 71 kg of fruit and vegetables. While at the same time you remember in Vrgorec last year, man cannot sell his peaches organically produced, he took a chain saw and drank it because the policies and directives we serve and we do not protect interest and hear no voice other than the individual voices and noises in the European Parliament, which is why Croatia would not be environmentally protected and why we would not be because we have agricultural land that is ecologically protected, certainly not so in the Netherlands where we can produce domestic products in a traditional way, of course, why would we not build our future and our development? It is surprising that in the first ten months of 2017 40m euros of meat processing was imported in Croatia more than in 2016, only pork imported 161m euros, which means over a billion kuna. It is equally shocking that Croatia imports while we are unprocessed 750,000 hectares, in second place there are bread and bakery products 107m euros. To encourage our farmers, organic production, healthy production would have full villages and the Croatian state and the ministry would have to encourage it. We have now become what was our goal, only the EU lobby market and, of course, in America where large companies such as Monsanto are involved because the directives adapt to these large institutions. The question arises whether GMOs entered Croatia and that is a legitimate question. Officially, it has been mentioned for a long time that the seeds in Croatia are missing or should at least not be there if there is a law not respecting them. We need to know that both our experts and scientists, Aleksandra Sudaric, from the Agricultural Institute in Osijek, stated a few years ago that one of the consultations farmers admitted to importing GMO soybean seeds from BiH and after all for the greater contribution. Facing the public is especially known to the expert for patenting a very quality domestic variety of IKA soybeans. With this knowledge and suspicions that in Croatia it has been sown for years, GMOs have met experts but nothing is happening here. It also called on the resolution ministry to subsidise only the seed of domestic varieties because the seed is extremely quality with a certificate that is not GMOs and which is precisely why it is very wanted in the EU. Croatian institutions in charge of control continue to point out that no GMO product has been detected. However, under control, soybeans intended for exportation were found to be 12% of soybeans produced in Croatia as early as 2013. GMO positive of which 7% of samples had more than 0.9% of GMOs allowed. In this year's surveillance in the year immediately following 2015, surveillance of 4000 samples showed that 6.5% of soybeans are positive for GMOs. They were called for on the basis of what Croatia Control has done in Zagreb as part of the only laboratory in Croatia that has testing equipment according to European standards. At that time it was called upon the relevant to exercise control over the hand of Zadar-Split... Rivers and Copras import soy. And now this soybeans that are fed mainly here we have seen that the most pigs we import while Slavonia has her branded black pig, while people leave Slavonia we continue to import pigs. The presence of crops in Croatia indicates no analysis of hebricid glyphosate in Europeans. He spoke of it the most, and especially now in Croats who are not much lower in research, our expert, Mr. Prof. Dr.sc, warned about it. Marian Josh, for years these toxic compounds have been in the urine. The EU annually imports about 38 million tonnes of soybeans without import duties. Because of the resistance of Europeans to such soybeans, this cheap soy ends up as cattle on large industrial farms, resulting in low meat prices, eggs, milk and the collapse of small farmers who cannot compete there and, in particular, it has happened to us in Croatia. But in order to even import the soybean, the EU from Argentina had to increase its existing maximum levels of glyphosate 200 times. Today they are 200 times higher than they were allowed. And experiments have shown that chicken and frog embryos degenerative changes occur at 10 times smaller doses. We here as Parliamentarians must all think first and foremost about the health of our people and this law allows. It allows for the ban on this bad food that destroys our agriculture and as far as medical medicines and preparations are concerned, they decide as much as they do so so far, the Ministry of Health and their regulations. Which means this law protects our farmers, our economy because we import billions of kunas, billions of just fruit and vegetables, importing only pork like I said, 106 million euros. Meat that is questionable and that no one controls because they use GMO products. Therefore, we must all prevent these consequences together because according to the Institute of Public Health, for human health we could represent GMO products of allergenicity, the transmission of genes can also cause great damage in nature and here I will only remind you of one sentence of Albert Einstein how much nature meant to him and how much we would have to think about nature. "When the bee disappears, the man will disappear." When the bee disappears within 4 years, there is no man either, it is nature. And the Croatian state has all the conditions to protect large corporations whose interest is not only on products but also on pesticides, herbicides, on everything they can earn and there are dangerous compounds and it's proven, just remember, I'll say colloquial, cidocors that destroys weeds. There are huge harmful compounds and large profits from these corporations. Here's the basic question what about the seed? We now have an authorised market on the market and we do not have our traditional seed. We become addicts again of large multinational companies like Monsanto because domestic seeds are extinct and we don't have it. And this is why I call on everyone to buy home and this law in essence, and it is that we encourage domestic production, to have greater profits, to keep people in their places and villages, to encourage the production of organic clean food where we can be huge exporters. I repeat, 750,000 ha of farmland is unprocessable. What potential is that? We're a tourist country, importing GMOs, pork, fruit, vegetables. So bigger profits food producers have foreign companies than Croatia does. So what kind of tourism is it where we don't offer our ecologically preserved products because I simply can't fight on the market? That's why we need to ban both transport and transport and market, not just cultivation, because what did you get from growing if we have GMO seeds on the shelf? A man buys the GMO seed he planted, right? We wonder if there are any in Croatia in the fields of GMO products? Well, of course there is, that's what scientists prove. Who's gonna stop the pollinators? The wind not to carry that GMO? No one will. And for years people have warned as Mr. scientist Marian Jost, however his voice is very, very heard. According to Marian Jost, which has an exceptional effect on man, he cited among other 30 diseases. Autism,... disease, sterility, conjecture cells, foetal malformation, increased incidence of cancer, liver cancer, bile cancer, excessive thickness, cellia, high blood pressure, diabetes, kidney disease, increase in male infertility, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I quote people who couldn't be heard from protection because they're multinational companies I repeat again, Monsanto, who controls an American company, most of the world's market, and their interest is to throw away the most seeds that they need to be treated with and treat again with Monsant's products. That's why I'm stressing again, I'm going to answer, there's a lot more to say, I'm expecting one debate, I can see that there's quite a number, I'd rather have them come forward more to show our satisfaction here. Not our proposals and constructiveity, and I expect from the Ministry of Health and Government representatives that we Parliamentarians do not allow this law not to allow future generations of our own to be test rabbits. It's our responsibility and responsibility. Our duty and responsibility is to protect our agriculture. To buy Croatian in Croatia, not to import the meat that GMOs feed. Neither who controls nor has a model to control. It's an obligation for us MPs to discuss this. I gave you the proposal as a proposal. All your amendments, everything you think needs to be improved I will listen, give another reading so that we can see a way and model how to preserve our economic potential, our agricultural resources, protect the farmer, and, of course, the health of our people. Once again, I would like to ask you for the future of our Republic and our children, for the sake of our health, for the sake of sound consideration of this Law. I know this law is not easy to suggest, I know that stakeholders who even have political options that are funded by GMO companies that have monopoly, but let's be bold, we're a representative body, even the Ministry. The government has admitted in its opinion that now is not the time to vote this Law. Well, here, I'd like to ask the Proposer to say when it's time to vote this bill. Thank you very much. I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83619	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused one longer sequence of replicas. However, before we go to replicas, let's welcome the students of the Zlatar High School who are here at our gallery. Give it up! Now let's get to the replicas. He is the first respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you spoke so nicely of the ban on GMOs that you almost convinced me of your position. You and I know that the bill of this law is pure demagogy and populism. It's absolutely impossible in theory to carry out what you've been saying. We should close the borders, get out of the EU, and there is no way to ban transportation. It's not imports, so the imports of the products you were talking about, meat. It's all my support. It's not import, it's input, it's one market. Croatia does not produce nearly enough food to feed itself so that you can close the borders and ban all living, all living as far as GMOs are concerned. As much as you and I want it, we can't ban the soybeans, such as the soybeans from Copra, who came from Brazil, GMOs for Bosnia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83621	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83622	Well, inspections would do their job, of course, by these regulations, and of course, if the EU directive were to impose on us, and now we see the results of all these. We must consider seeing the effects of all these directives on agriculture and GMO imports, and you are witnesses, you know, that a pig where I am 130 million euros in pigs, so that it is not pulsism, we import 130 million pigs, and you are coming from the area where pig farming is and you are supporting this policy so far instead of looking for where you come from for your citizens to review the so far-called directives that we are implementing here in laws that harm and farmers, organic production, means an ecological farmer and that stems from the relocation of Croatian peasants from the area where you come from. And that's the key problem. So imagine, just for pigs 130 million kuna, the euro imports. A billion. We've given this incentive to our farmers for organic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83623	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83624	Dear Representative Bulj, I support your proposal, I welcome it, and I am pleased that you have referred it to the procedure. However, as MP Krizanic pointed out, it is impossible to ban GMO food imports from America without leaving the EU, for example, because this was agreed at EU level by an agreement between the EU and the United States. And that's why the Living Wall is looking for our country's exit from the EU so that GMOs can get food off the shelves of our shops, and protect people's health, and I'm particularly glad that you mentioned the problem of these herbicides, gliphosphates, so-called gliphosphates. ... The total herbicide of Monsanta, which is actually a living poison that is carcinogenic and countless studies that have proved it, from Japan further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry that ruling doesn't want to see or care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83625	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83626	Comrade Pernar, I agree with you that there is a need for a front against GMOs within the EU that is causing great damage. You also mentioned herbicides used in many of my Dalmatia in fruit growing, viticulture. That's what the gentleman was talking about most because for many years I followed him. I would not agree with you that the Republic of Croatia must respect all directives. We are Parliament, and if we are bold we must create a front, we are a sovereign state that there is nothing in Europe at all because we will not be able to do anything ourselves. We can be the call of that battle that already exists. But within Europe, we must create a front to produce ecologically healthy food that will encourage farmers who will mean, and health will not be endangered and of course will not work these stakeholders within the Eu for American companies like Monsanto.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83627	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, the intensity of your law is actually to create a brand of Croatia, you know how much Croatia is income from tourism and that it is our main economic branch. I already see in which direction you will go replicas towards you, one of the replicas will go that GMO free food is much more expensive than GMO food and is always what health is actually more expensive, but it actually works, that organic food is more expensive and because we have very few producers. So by this law of yours, there would be a lot more producers, and that would create markets that would cost food. And from this law of yours, in 10 years, Croatia would become a brand as an ecological country in which it would actually benefit multiple people in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83629	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83630	My colleague, we have one huge problem, let's say in 2015 that year 110% higher egg imports, then we had problems, at very low prices. From Poland, from other countries, 110%. Hundreds of millions of eggs are imported, and 2/3 of Croatia is empty. This caused what these GMOs and others, which they use, are simply cheap products that are harmful to health and we are falling production. We have to protect our farmers, we're a tourist country, we have potential, 750,000 acres of unprocessed land. And we import eggs, pork, there's nothing we don't import, dairy products also, from cheese. I therefore believe that we must create one front, I repeat, I am sorry that Croatia was restrained last year around GMOs in the European Parliament, 16 countries... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83631	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83632	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Bulj, I wanted to take this opportunity today to risk the chairman's warning, but then at one point point point point point to one date, but then at one point you said that you needed to protect the Republic of Croatia from GMOs. So today's date '41. have signed the Treaty of Rome, which even some in this hall are happy about, so half of Croatia, almost half of Croatia, is dedicated to fascists, so if I didn't get a warning, it would be easier for a smaller country, so we would be left without Dalmatia, without the island, without Istria, so it would be easier to protect. And then, as some here say again, '43. Mr. Titojugends, commies, returned to Croatia to take possession of the territory and today we have to worry about 56594 square kilometers of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83633	You said correctly that it had nothing to do with it, and we doubt it, and besides, I doubt anyone is looking forward to it, but something will say about it, colleague Bulj, here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83634	I'd just say briefly, we wouldn't be going into historical events right now, we're talking about GMOs, we if we're going to talk about it, we can talk about Homeland War and... But this is the theme of GMOs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would ask you to return to this serious topic, the farmers are watching, 2/3 of Croatia now empty. Unfortunately, it is not a country where the territory is empty, there is a lot of blood spilled and through history of the Homeland War, please, come back to the topic, which is important for our farmers, the survival of the people in 2/3 of Croatia, Slavonia is empty, Zagora is empty and empty for us and Lika. Please once again, let's talk seriously, to preserve our production throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, otherwise we'll be just a market, which we are, foreign corporations and poor food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83635	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83636	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, if there is no confusion, I am for an absolute advocate of organic food, I have been shopping in the river market for years with the same local food sellers, in Konzala, in the same butcher shop buying the meat of our producers for years, but Parliament is a place that has to be held and handled by facts, because this is what citizens who would not dare to submit to populist statements. Let's say, when we talked about vaccination, things were said here, so again the rate of vaccination in the Dalmatian and Dubrovnik County, which endangers our health. So, and a lot of what you said isn't true. Therefore, we should once again point out, in Croatia, Croatia is a GMO free growing country, there is no cultivation of GMO products. In order to place a GMO product on Croatian shelves, a request must be requested, there are no GMO products in Croatia, 129 samples were taken, none of them found GMO products, of any kind of food, meat, corn, soybeans, all processed. So we have to tell the citizens the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83637	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83638	My colleague, I'm going to tell you this last time, it's a lie, and it's proved by the only institute that has, privately, all the equipment, modern, it's Croatia's control that I've quoted how much we find GMO products and in what percentage. As to whether this is populism or not, I've put forward a bill, you've been talking about medically, in GMO medicine, so I've just protected it. The same would be the case with medicine, any product of the drug, means the regulation, it's just that, I don't know, if you've read the law, I wish you'd read the bill, as far as medical use is concerned, in medicine, in all medicines and preparations, it's excluded from this and that's what the Ministry or the Minister determines by the rule. I listed it in this law, and it's the only thing that's excluded from this, and I just don't think that this replica of you was in that part of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83639	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83640	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, I'm glad you've opened this topic, this subject is certainly, if we say in the broadest sense and the world-widest question. Also from what we like to call it the former system has defined itself as a kind of agriculture that we call in the modern world intensive agriculture in which a lot of chemical resources are used and a lot of machinery and we have continued with this direction. However, you rightly warn that despite money that has never been invested in agriculture, we have the weakest results. Something's causing it. Our villages are empty, I do not share the view that the danger is the biggest in GMO production, but when you mention organic production then it is certainly an opportunity for the Republic to produce quality food and that this food can be placed on the EU market because it is a better way to compete than to insert more pesticides, more artificial fertilisers and more machinery, and we will find it difficult to compete with EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83641	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83642	We have to fight within Europe to be a GMO free set means the whole territory is if we have tourist potential and we can be a Croatian brand, eco-production. And not to import 50% of the fruit and vegetables, and that's the increase, to millions of eggs, so every year by 100% in 2015. 110% more eggs we import, dairy products. So we must protect and fight within Europe that we are the ones who sell our organic products on the Adriatic, not theirs. It's now a struggle, we need to side with our traditional and conventional production that we need to perfect and fight. To fight for Croatia's 750,000 hectares of land to be organic products. That's our economic potential. Not that we have 400 products on GMO shelves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83643	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I absolutely agree with your intensities of the new law. Croatia is a Malta not a tourist country and we all know how much we earn annually in the state budget from the tourism sector. And I just think that if we were to declare ourselves a country maybe the only one in the EU that Malta is not a GMO free country that would have an additional tourist potential if we couldn't compare ourselves with other members to Germany, Poland and larger members going to the quantity. We can only talk about quality. As for the view that there are no products in Croatia GMOs, sanitary inspections at the annual level of 200 controls and 10-20% of these products have been established to contain GMOs, with it being less than 0.9% of the permitted limit. And that's exactly one of those 0.9% fictional figures, and I think Croatia should be 0%. Also if it contains up to 0.9% we need... they don't need to be declared at all. Therefore, probably these 10% to 20% of products that exist Croatian citizens do not even know that there is GMO content in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83645	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83646	Here's when we talk about colleague Pranic, then I'd like to mention the same Croatian brand of Vrgorica strawberries or my head cabbage from Sinj and a number of other products that we'd like to advertise and invite to buy our own. Here we have now had a government that... the money it gives for imports or Mandarins in Metkovic, which we give for importing that we have invested in irrigating the Sinj field that has at all forgotten 6 acres in the government's session, is repeated every 4 years and that we are a moot, impervious to what areas of the karst fields do not matter, I believe that the new ones we give for import that we could have vervain strawberries all over the world, and not that we are now being pushed by Spanish who are four times larger, who have no taste and smell and who knows if they have ever seen the country, have been instilled in the country at all. Maybe on the way to the transport they saw the land, who knows where it came from. That's what they do here, and we'll see how they vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83647	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83648	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Since farming, therefore, cca 10 thousand years has been involved in cross-breeding or genetics. We can start with Gregor Menedel, who first laid down genetic laws and who dealt in a more primitive way with modern geneticists using sophisticated methods. We know that Croatia is a GMO free country so there is no production and no production and no planting of GMO seeds in Croatia. So the products that are imported into Croatia must be declared if they have over 0.9% of GMO products, that's something we have to accept, that's the European law that we have to adopt. But my question to you, must we be critical, do more damage to the excessive use of pesticides and insecticides with a long half-time decomposition than GMO products or plants that are based on cross-breeding are not needed by many pesticides?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83649	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83650	It's a shame, of course, that the damage and pesticides and hebricids, and of course it's in Monsant's best interest, are the most toxic. It'll domestically say cidocor... per weed it's their product,...as it's being destroyed around. But what are they doing it for? Is domestic traditional that were seeds no longer simply cannot be treated by the team. These seeds are progressing and it is important that the seeds they control, and they will simply be able to be bought with them for the treatment of all plants. It's an interest in taking over. So check out the few products and what scientists say about Monsant products and hebricids. We're talking about GMO products here. So, we have to keep traditional production here, it's strategic because we're going to have agricultural land processed ecologically, we have tourism, we have a gastro-produced offer. Here in my Sinj son's armbash everyone heard of a number of other sonic prosciuttos, a braid prosciutto, a top-notch ham, but to be a pig in a domestic way, not a GMO.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83651	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83652	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Col. Bulj, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU, meaning the common European market, which makes up 508 million inhabitants and right here I see an opportunity for our agricultural producers as well as for the food producer. And now that our agricultural products are more quality, instead of strengthening agriculture, agricultural producers, we are using EU funds, we have been increasingly discussing someone in my opinion, a crazy idea of getting out of the EU. Imagine the situation that we just give up all the billions available to us, and for agriculture, and for infrastructure, health and education. Therefore, I believe that there should be far more debate on how to make the most of the EU's quality funds, especially when it comes to agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83653	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83654	Well, we need to reconsider that. From 2014 to 2020, the Republic of Croatia will invest about 4 billion euros or 30 billion kuna in EU funds and will return 3%. So we have to come to the stage of reviewing all the directives, the features and what we signed until 2021, Juncker, Tusk, Macron and this team where it belongs, and our prime minister is going to be off the balance fund, these reaching funds, so I'm afraid that we're paying to stay in those countries where we're paying. So we have to review the whole story and we have to protect the farmer because if we import the most pigs and we have the benefits of producing pigs, domestic pigs, I will now quote after five minutes, one of my friends, what he said about Slavon pigs and how much money could be brought only to get politicians to remove their fingers and interest groups that suit GMO production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83655	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83656	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, so you probably already know in advance that I support this law, that it is one of the better laws written in this House, brought to debate, deserves all praise. What I don't understand is why you wrote this law on your own behalf, why isn't it written on behalf of the Most Independent Lists to which you belong, is it not likely that your own does not support this law of yours? Well, here, if you can explain why your initiative is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83657	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83658	Comrade Bunjac, we are representatives here individually, of course we all belong to some kind of clubs and we can act individually. Here on the Health Committee were representatives Marko Sladolev for this law, Ines Strenja-Linić and the Committee on Legislatives of the same three opposition, Mr Vlaović and Mr Alexic. So individuals voted from these clubs. I believe that here all those who think they should vote, those who think they need improvements, that we will vote mostly, go to another reading. That's what matters, that most of them will. I believe, here's a fellow who thinks from the Most, from others, will vote and everyone will support this. This is my personal initiative because I gave the amendment to a law that was passed on to GMOs a few months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83659	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83660	Your Honor, Vice President. If it hadn't been for the crossover, if it hadn't been for the pesticides, if it hadn't been for the protection of crops, the fruit, the vegetables by certain means, all of this would have failed and we would have lived in hunger. We'd work more for a kilo of fat, we'd have been digging the Turican corn all day. I'll tell you like this. When you talk about prosciutto, let's find out where those pigs come from, and so many pigs for that huge prosciutto produced. From Slavonia, part of it. And Slavonia is protected in Slavonia Cvelferia from both GMOs and pork imports because we have our Ferbežar not to advertise it here but I must say, we buy and eat still our own and you won't see Slavonac going to Lidl, and in Bill to buy bacon, to buy a tower or sausage, they eat homemade. We have to change ourselves, we have to change our consciousness. It's yourself personally, not the world. When we buy from ours and ours, then ours will go forward, not others.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83661	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83662	Natural crosses are okay, but here's something else, here's something else we're talking about. Did you know that we only give 131 million euros for pigs? So as much as the Chinese would import Slavonian pigs, it could be from Ploč to the Serbian border, so it would take 1,000 km, but just to remove our tentacles and not please the rams that control both seeds and do not buy domestic ones. Believe me, 2/3 of Croatia is empty, you know they're empty. We don't have irrigation, we only have for that money we give for the import of pigs, we could irrigate Vrgoračka and Sinjsko, Imotsko and Drnik, but we don't do that. And we do not sell our products on the Adriatic but unfortunately your green Croatia come down to the season and sell these GMO products and pigs from other countries, from the Netherlands. And there's the problem. 750,000 ha of land is unprocessed, agricultural.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83663	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yes, the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Željko Plazonić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83664	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives. I'd be very brief, on the other hand I'd go back to the scale of things, and that's the GMO Act itself. Namely, the proposal for a law prohibiting GMOs proposed by Mr. Parliamentary Representative Bulj is contrary to EU legislation, which we are obliged to apply since EU accession, and its adoption would create a legal gap and Croatian national legislation would no longer be in line with EU rules in this area. Very briefly, what is very important to which I would put the main accent is the provision of the European Community and the 2015 Directive. 412 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2015 amending the 2001 directive, which it says, I would ask that we all be very, very careful. It regulates the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. Therefore, if we adopt the directive, we as a state have the right and opportunity, and I see that this would be a very interesting opportunity to ban or restrict modified organisms on our national territory. Therefore, the Ministry of Health does not support the proposed law on the prohibition of GMOs by Mr Bulj because it is the same as existing legislation in the EU and the opinion is in line with the central authorities of the state administration responsible for agriculture, science and the environment, in accordance with the competences set out in Article 3. The Law on genetically modified organisms of NN of 70/05 and with the Chairmans of the GMO Council, the Committees for the introduction of GMOs into the environment and the Committee on Limited Use of GMOs. That's what I said. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83665	We have a few replicas. First is Honored Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I am interested in the fact that the Ministry of Health is responsible for food sampling in the Republic of Croatia, whether the exact data I found, and my colleague Bulj said it was not true, that no GMO product was found in the Republic of Croatia. So there are no GMO products on the Croatian shelves. And secondly, did any producer, distributor request and submit a request to place on the GMO product shelves in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83667	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83668	As far as I'm concerned, your data is accurate and consistent with the true state. As far as I know, no one has filed a request to place GMO products on the shelves of our commercial markets because it is simply not allowed under the current law. Therefore, we have a 12 - year - old Law and it does not allow it, so we still have to act according to that old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83669	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83670	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you have defended the Law here means that HDZ with its partners has brought to the CNS and others, which at the small door allows for the introduction of GMOs, seeds and to grow in the Republic of Croatia. What is said to have no GMO products in the Republic of Croatia, it's a notorious lie. Most of the soybean buckshot used for the cattle is from Argentina, which is the world's largest... for the production of GMOs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you think that the pigs that ate GMOs were not treated with GMOs, then you're in one big delusion. Secondly, soy producers last year, Croatian soy producers, although they received declarations that soybeans are not GMOs, by coming into silos and testing, have shown that certain samples have shown that GMOs are GMOs. So someone's setting us up, and we can't defend ourselves because you've passed such a beautiful law that helps us to get to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83671	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83672	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. I have to admit that you remind me a little of Andrei Plenkovic who keeps saying he doesn't have any affair, and then a few hours later, reality disproves him. So, you're saying the EU allows Croatia to ban GMOs, but it does not allow Representative Buljo to ban GMOs. So please explain that logic to me. Your other illogicality, you say there are no GMO products in the Republic of Croatia. Then what's the problem? Then Mr. Bull's Law is a completely empty form. He's not jeopardizing anyone. There's no GMOs, OK. Then what? The law is just some piece of paper, it doesn't apply to anything, it forbids anything. Then what are you afraid of? Explain that to me a little bit, I don't understand that logic of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83673	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83674	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I'm going to say this for you, and most of all for the public. I'll point you to one problem. Although it is medical products that are used in the wind, they have quite an implications for human health. According to many veterinarians, there are not enough clear and precise inspections of products given to animals, many times these products are supplied on the black market, of course for economic reasons, and certainly, as I understand it, you are from the Ministry of Health, Health. However, attention should be paid to establishing these controls because it may be more dangerous at this point than the danger we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83675	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Miro Bulj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83676	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I would quote your opinion in the first sentence, you represent the Government. The government of the Republic of Croatia, in its opinion, does not at this time support the bill in question, at this point, do you support it now or not? Either you make a better suggestion, or you play another reading, and we'll see. So at this point, you're saying, right now, right now, you're not in favour of this proposal. Here, take an opinion, and you'll see. This definition has never happened before. So why not at this point, it should have been before, because we would have protected our organic production in the Republic of Croatia, so we wouldn't have imported all of this from 71 kg of vegetable fruit per capita. They wouldn't import the most pigs, they wouldn't import our livestock, i.e. The dairy production has failed, we would not have had 750,000 hectares of land lying unprocessed and suitable for food production, so all of this would imply economic growth, employment, because in tourism they would sell our food, food produced in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And for this money that we import, we could irrigate all the fields, all of Slavonia, have the best irrigation system. But we don't have it, we only have promises, and people are leaving, 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Who will now become the owner of these plots, these, agricultural land. We know that by selling agricultural land in 2020 you made it possible for foreigners to buy land agricultural, and even the OPG can open up foreigners. So whom did you allow this whole process to be emptied 2/3 of Croatia without importing the most pigs? And you know how much you can produce Dalmatian prosciutto, a dredger prosciutto, from domestic pigs to encourage domestic production for this money that we import. As far as agricultural goods can be introduced, as long as you say that at this point, and that moment should be, it's 20, 15. To encourage all this agriculture, not import lobbys to destroy Croatian peasants and villages. Because without peasants, there's no rich country and we don't have a city. Well 2/3 of Croatia is empty. Here's a colleague with me from my neighborhood, when we go down, an empty character, you don't see sheep, cows, goats, you don't see anything, empty. I asked you to reconsider and explain here, to all of us, to explain what it means at this point you do not support the proposal in question, and otherwise, sanitary inspections, each year, carry out approximately 200 controls of different products from Croatia, in Croatian shops. It is found in December that between 10% and 20% of the product contains GMOs. It is within the range of 9 and then seas, it is above the limit of 0.9 even above the borders, so 0.9 borders and 0.9% is controversial, however, the fact is that the only laboratory that is equipped for testing food according to European standards has proved Croatia's control, we see it from the media in the tribune, where it was then also former Minister Jakovina, that he proved that, in the control of a soybean grain intended for export in 2013, 12% of the soybe produced in Croatia, GMOs positively, from only... The samples had more than 0.9% of GMOs allowed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the following year, i.e. 2015 A view of over 4,000 samples, it showed that 6.5% of soybeans are positive for GMOs, so I need to say one more time, I also refer to independent laboratories that exist in the Republic of Croatia and that publicly present that data, however, we do not want to keep that quiet. And I would once again ask all of you fellow MPs, as the government said in its opinion, that at this point it does not support this law, that you support it, and in the second reading, I guess there will be a moment, to finally improve the law with the amendments, to finally accept it. Because no one can accept this definition, and mostly my parliamentary representatives, that from now on you can't... and will be in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83677	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83678	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you have well quoted this, that the government does not at this time support this law of yours that fights GMOs, we know what the government supports, group capital, banking sector, and one of the biggest capital capital is Monsantno. We know where Monsanto is an expert and what he does most and exists in Croatia in one address where no one is ever there, but Monsanto moves and slowly enters the Croatian fields. And from the looks of it, there was a series in America, where farmers produced soybeans of soybeans, monsantically releasing genes that patented through their seeds, eventually through their own police force they formed, they were able to prove that this gene had moved on to all the soybeans that farmers had been growing. And no one could take their seeds more than everyone had to buy from Monsanto. It's gonna happen to us, too, but then it's gonna be too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83679	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83680	That last line that's basically a definition of everything. That's the definition of everything, it happened in America, that they were farmers, so they pollinated their surfaces with GMO surfaces, and they just couldn't do it anymore, just their seed. And it's an interest, a fight for the seed. He who has seed in his hands and who rules over the seed is the ruler of the whole world, for the seed is the source of life, and without the agricultural product of the seed there is no seed. That is why in Croatia, we have to run the entire front, if we have to across the EU, we have to potentiate from Croatia, to protect organic production, i.e. production, traditional, congenial, and we have a surface and we even have a market for our surfaces and this is the tourist season, where we have a million, and this way we would have 5 times the profit in the tourist season, more employees, the country would be processed 2/3 of Croatia would not be empty, and this money from imports, where we import meat, which we do not control and that was fed to GMO products and soybean, it was essentially contaminated the entire space of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83681	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83682	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. I find it very interesting here that actually here is my colleague Jovanovic just left the assembly and the secretary of state agreed that there is no GMO food in Croatia, that there is no GMO product on Croatian shelves, and then Bunjac responded fantastically, if there is nothing to the problem. We actually have two thesis or someone's lying, so there's one, or you just don't understand the scale of this law. If there is no GMO product so what would be the problem then this law would be passed? Why doesn't the government accept it? So it's very simple, here's a colleague of Bunjac's fantastically figured it out, if he doesn't have one. and you and your colleague Jovanovic from the SDP agreed that there is no, let's adopt this law, so there are no problems or there were GMOs or there will be one, so the matter is extremely logical. I don't see any problem. Maybe there's a little GMO after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83683	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83684	Well, here's what I'd like to say is simple if there's no GMOs, why don't we pass the law, if there's one, why don't we adopt it. Here, it is all the time being that there is no GMO, and here is an independent laboratory that is the only one that can control the EU standards, they were publicly on the stands where former Minister Jakovina was in 2015, saying that there is a GMO on our shelves, in cattle. In cattle food, the problem is what we do, the meat we import, we don't control, and of course it feeds off of GMO products, and that our livestock production is going down, and that's how our damages are even more done to us, not just by emigration, this is a demographic measure of this law. Because we would encourage organic production, traditional production, and this money we give for imports, and the import lobby is too strong. They're very quiet here now, so that import lobby is too strong and we can. They say we'll do it ourselves? Let's make a front across the EU and let's hear a voice in the European Parliament, let's fight if Croatia will be extinct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83685	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, a respected representative of Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83686	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Today, we have a law that is completely logical, very constructive, very positive, a law that protects Croatian citizens, which protects what they have most valuable, and that is their health and lives themselves. It is very interesting that this House of the High 20 years ago means 1998 banned the seed of GMOs and even used for experimental purposes. Meanwhile, all 21 counties have declared GMOs free and according to some available surveys 90% of Croatia's population is against GMOs. And here says one fellow representative, why Croatia is not branded as a country without GMOs, she branded herself, branded in 2001 when all over Croatia, and especially in tourist areas, raised a jumbo cry and wrote on those jumbo posters: "Dear guests, we want your stay in Croatia to be as pleasant, more content and healthy as possible. Croatia is a country where environmental and nature issues are very important to its population. Preserving the untouched nature, its beauty and biodiversity is a priority for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, Croatia said NO food production containing GMOs and preserved the traditional way of food production. Croatia is a country of healthy food, preserved nature and the environment, clean sea and warm people. If you're looking for a healthy vacation, you're in the right place. Welcome!" It was a campaign by the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy in 2001, the flyers were divided, they were jumbo posters. What changed in the meantime? In the meantime, this changed, that, of course, the flyers and the jumbo posters were gone, and in 2003, suddenly the Nature Protection Act was passed, which in principle allows the introduction of GMOs. In 2005, the Parliament already passed a law on GMOs, which is being introduced as an experimental, deliberate introduction, so stories begin completely unfounded by some combination of GMOs and organic agriculture, so that's not just a lie, it's not a stupid thing. As the state secrets say, it is contrary to EU laws, and I argue that the co-existence of GMOs and organic agriculture is contrary to common sense. Because you think there can be a GMO field and next to it an ecological field simply isn't possible. The consequences of GMO fields are felt within 25km, thanks to traffic, for example, bees, insects, birds, climate conditions such as wind etc. It's not possible, and it says in this law that it's possible. We have seen that, in 2004, according to the captured Wikileaks, the US Embassy says that in Croatia the resistance is very strong and that it will need to be gradually crushed for two to three decades. It's been 15 years now since then, and we can see that resistance is breaking down. GMO lobbyists are inserted into all GMO-related councils, scientists are bought. Monsanto says he will buy one-third of Croatia's country. Premer Tim Oreshkovic, wanted to buy 10,000 acres in Slavonia, never said, which is what he needs, because it's like a business secret. Watch out, a country's diameter has a business secret. I guess that's the same business secret borg 2. The quasi scientists we listen to here even here in the Parliament come to us with a story that this is about science and not science, which is, say, objective, but science that is fatal. Scientific fetalism is spreading, and it is said that GMOs are necessary, that it is inevitable and that delaying the introduction of GMOs prevents progress, and it is not about any science, but about continued science and propaganda, which serves exclusively profit. I repeat my profits, and science must not serve profit. And most importantly, he serves profits exclusively to foreign corporations and is the funniest of all the profits of 3 corporations. So the entire GMO legislation that's being passed is being passed in the interest of three foreign corporations, and then it's still called science. We're also listening to a lie here, people who have no idea what they're talking about. That GMO products are cheaper than conventional products, i.e., than organic products, are not. They're more expensive. There are far more herbicides being spent, far the consequences are catastrophic, by nature above all, by the organism, by the animals. The yields are 15% lower than organic farming, please be informed. There's a book down there, there's a library under our feet, if you didn't know, go, borrow a book, you have books, so read. Release the portals, release the secretary of state and his stories and Jovanovic, but be informed. Don't listen to Monsanto propaganda, Monsanto is a company that was created to produce war poisons. The killer's company. Which in India caused its contracts, GMO planting 300,000 suicides of farmers, 300,000. A company like that wants to be brought to Croatia. So where is it, is it not a crime against his own people? He says there is no GMO in Croatia. Croatian Institute of Public Health in 2009 announced that out of 33 controlled products, 14 contained GMOs, almost 50%. Do you know what the consequences were? The Director of HZZO, the Public Health Institute, was removed, it was a government measure. Instead of checking, is that true, they simply replaced him and the end of the story, which you're going to to us, publish some data. Do you know that 100% of the crops on the globe, 100% of the crops, 71% question bees. Yes, the bees died in Canada after the introduction of GMOs. Which in the future, you will pollinate the orchards when there is no more bees. Study the study of Danish farmers, published at a food safety conference in Beijing, 25th and 26th. Seven. 2014 based on the observation of 30000 pigs. Pigs fed to GMOs had digestive disorders, they needed 3 times more drugs than pigs fed by normal means. They had two, two little pigs in each bed. Far less, the milk, the large bleeding in the abdomen, the ulcers, the shortened life span, and the fertility of the sows has been reduced from 8 legal to 6 lifetimes. In blood, kidneys and heart tissue, they had a huge amount of glyphosate, which comes along with GMOs. Don't listen to me, keep in touch with the legal scientists. Study one of the greatest experiments ever made in the UK and it's called.../The speaker speaks English./... which cost $11 million and during which 4,000 field visits were made, a million plants, 750 thousand seeds and a million and a half animals were examined. It was found that where GMO fields were located, the plants were completely destroyed by the principle of burned soil, that the number of butterflies had fallen by 2/3, that the number of bees had dropped by 50%, that the spiders had disappeared, that the insects had disappeared, that the birds had disappeared. That it was completely destroyed was diversity. I repeat again, do not trust me, inform yourself, these are publicly available data, it just takes a little goodwill. Read the study... scientist Andres Karask, who proved that GMOs and glyphosates cause malformations in the embryos of frogs and chickens, identical to those that occur in malformed babies, born in rural areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the introduction of GMOs, before the introduction, 19 babies were malformed to 100,000 born after the introduction of GMOs 90. The number of malphromations increased by 4 to 5 times. Indigestion increased by 250%, pneumonia by 350%, liver cancer by 10 times. Read in Paraguay where they dusted glyphosates from planes, when your glyphosates fell on children, the children died, died. Read it, don't trust me, inform yourself, sir, I know it's hard to read, but here, if you want to argue, well, please try a little bit. Also, research in the RR regions of Brazil and Argentina showed that people had toxic visual and breathing disorders, to increase the number of spontaneous abortions, that infertility was increased by 25%, that people had changes in the nervous system, bone damage, kidneys, skin, gluten allergies, a completely unknown disease before the 20th century, and no one knew either. Turn around. Here, I've asked the counseling questions. What is the tendency of patients with cancer in the Republic of Croatia? Like this. Here, he knows Mr. Cell. Straight line. Croatia is 6th in the world for cancer mortality, 6th in the world. The rate of growth of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Chron's, autoimmune diseases. Well some reason there is, some reason there is. '97. We've introduced these malls and since then we've been feeding on malls with imported food, here last year we imported as many as 10 billion kunas of food. Let's import everything alive. We import leaves, we import branches, we import moss, we import meat, we import fruits, we import vegetables. There's a cause somewhere. Have you heard from the Health Committee of Minister Kujundzic who says the cause of the disease is food. I didn't say, said your Minister of Health. Do you have ears to hear? Therefore, if this government is indeed against GMOs and if it is aware of all its consequences and if all Croatians are against it and if all Croatian citizens want to eat healthy, I hope the secretary of state does not want to eat GMOs. I hope he doesn't want to wear GMO clothes, like GMO cotton. I hope he doesn't want to use GMO cosmetics, whether it's deodorant, whether it's detergent or something. I hope that's the way it is. Then take sharp measures. You say yourself, Europe allows. Let's ban it. Why don't you publish a declaration for GMOs? In 2005, you prescribed the GMO law that there must be declarations. So, you in your Ministry of Health that doesn't do anything, and this is not where one-one law, total incompetents, can't implement the 2005 Law. You violate consumer rights, you violate consumer rights to information. You're breaking Croatian laws. You're selling fog. How is it possible to come to Slovenia, here is perhaps an hour from here, that each product is marked whether it has GMOs, whether it contains colors, whether it contains additives, whether it contains lactose, anything, you all have on that first page visible that a man with high dioptria can see the same moment. And we don't have it. Why? What are you afraid of? Do you know what the Minister of Health Andrija Hebrang said about why no declarations should be introduced? Because it would damage corporate profits. You keep an eye on the statement from the Minister of Health. So it's the minister of corporate protection, not the minister of human health. Think about what you just heard, keep in touch.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83687	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Križanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83688	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to talk about this serious subject behind this speaker and discuss the real circumstances in which we bring this Law. Mr. Bull, now you listen to me, I've been listening. So, I thought I'd talk the same way as you, by heart, 15 minutes use it, so that I'm talking about all the inability and nebuloses as many of those 5 articles in real time. I am glad that there is Mr. Zekanovic who voted two months ago for that previous Law and I am glad that Mr. Vlaović is sitting with me and that he put it there non-GMO or GMO free because in the previous meeting of the Parliament on the same wavelength we discussed about the previous Law. So unlike my colleagues, I claim that this law is not logical, this bill is not enforceable and not realistic. Well, that's my opinion. But before the debate on the Bill's proposal, I would refer to an opinion that is within the framework of political dialogue. In June 2015 we sat together in the Committee on Agriculture. The Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture has instructed the European Commission on the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and food for... in your area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the opinion was expressed that the proposal for a regulation that was then in the procedure of adoption needed to be made clearer, we asked for this opinion to be more clearly prescribed to exclude the use of genetically modified food and feed, but also to leave the Member States' right to decide on an exemption from use without giving specific conditions. At that time, the Commission answered this question and pointed to the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, and in particular Article. 15th Freedom of Entrepreneurship and Art. 41st right to good administration. So then it was about the use of GMO food and food for animals, and in the meantime we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the GMO Act, generally speaking of comprehensive treatment with GMOs. It is important to stress that as a serious member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has taken over the rights and obligations that we need and we need to respect whether we want to stay in the EU and whether we want to be a member of the EU and whether we want to act by the rules laid down by a organised community. Of course, at the same time, we should protect the interests that the Republic of Croatia represents and related to GMOs. I would like to remind you here, you have said to your colleague that all units of regional self-government have declared their areas by their decisions, so all GMO counties free and they confirm the direction of the Republic of Croatia as a GMO free state. The adoption of the law, last in this Assembly on 2 February 2018 on GMOs, provides for the adoption of a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture to prescribe the restriction or prohibition of cultivation, so I am talking about a ban on cultivation in part or in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Following the procedure to be submitted by the Republic of Croatia to an EU request for exemption from GMO cultivation, sufficient space has been left for determining the reasons for which the Republic of Croatia may be called in connection with that request. So undoubtedly we are the HDZ club is undoubtedly against GMO cultivation throughout the Republic of Croatia according to the position of all 21 counties in the Republic of Croatia. Independently, the theme of GMOs is driven by the right of great public interest, but also by certain and legitimate doubts as to the possibility of preventing the impact of globalisation of, in particular, the single European market on the preservation of the national sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as regards the introduction of GMOs into the Republic of Croatia in the form of food, but more important seeds and the prohibition of cultivation of the same. Here we must be energetic and resolute because the thought of the possibility and the test field of fellow Bulj, even under controlled conditions, could cause incomprehensible consequences, and what GMO seed could cause if it got out of control. Croatia is a small country and therefore, as far as the intake of any GMO seed is concerned, even if it is specifically against experiments. And in the most strictly controlled conditions, therefore, take all measures to protect against the sowing of GMO seeds as well as measures to severely punish the offender. On the other hand, the already mentioned Republic of Croatia is a member of the Single European Market, thus taking over the rights and obligations that it is impossible to prohibit the import of meat from GMO-fed animals, colleague Bulj. There's no import here, there's no entry, there's no border control. It is not correct or economically justified and lawful to ban our peasants, now I am speaking to you gentlemen from the HSS because at one point you speak one thing, and now you're saying another. I would very clearly like to hear your point of view about it. Are we in favour of banning our farmers from GMO food for animals that their colleagues in the EU use uninterruptedly and what food does this meat come to the Republic of Croatia uninterruptedly? To you, Mr. Bunjac, for information, yes, GMOs are cheaper, not more expensive, it's 20% cheaper, and who else would import GMOs? Is that logical? It is. That's why it's imported because it's cheaper. It's also normal to... seed GMOs because it's very likely to give higher yields, not less. Such a ban would make our cattleman additionally uncompetitive with all other benefits used by farmers in the EU. For example, I'm asking the question again of yours that you've been saying, where does the GMO soybeans that arrive in Koper go? It goes in an environment, Bosnia, Croatia, Serbia, Austria, Hungary, etc. This meat of these animals enters our shelves uninterrupted, imported by chains, that meat is subsidized by the Member States that I have listed and thus the Croatian production is destroyed. But now I'm going to tell you another thing that you haven't talked about today, but it's very important to say, and that's the coming African swine fever that's already at the borders of the Republic of Hungary, but between the Czech Republic and Poland, there are barriers at the border. Such pressure from such pigs fed by GMOs now arriving in the Republic of Hungary at seven kunas, brought down the price of pigs at eight kunas at this moment. Now here I appeal to the Minister of Resort and other ministries to protect us from such unfair competition because these pigs, live pigs, are entering. So the Republic of Serbia banned transportation through Hungary, banned meat imports. However, they are not in the EU, but we must find mechanisms to protect ourselves from such a situation. So these are the pigs that are fed to GMO soy and now living enter the Republic of Croatia this week and slaughter seven kunas. So, the Agency for the Protection of Competition, colleague Bulj, did not do her job. We've passed the law on unfair commercial practice, 20 kunas advertise every day on TV meat return, is it normal for 20 kunas to cost a return, and salad or pepper 30? It's not. Now that meat is subsidized, it's meat fed to GMO soy and that meat was brought from Hungary from the infected area with African swine fever, dear friends of 20 kuna. I should report to the Competition Protection Agency that meat is sold at 20 kuna, that it's below the manufacturer's price, so every day there are commercials on TV. Is everyone normal able to calculate that it can't cost 20 kuna. My dear friend, it's a much bigger problem than this. That is why it is more important, by example, to encourage all possible ways of GMO free production, to encourage GMOs free production. Yes, the import lobby has destroyed us, destroys us still, agrees with you 100%, clear the labelling obligation. It's prescribed. Is anyone controlling her? GMO free, and then in that case is a consumer choice, anyone can choose what they want. Of course we need to be declared and that no one can forbid us Croatian state representatives from telling our people to buy Croatian products, domestically declared GMO free products, of course. Once again, I want to say very clearly and firmly GMO free cultivation no, not even for experiments in laboratory conditions most strictly controlled, no. Animal food to be bound by declarations and markings, yes, as long as we can't control the import of everything else from the outside for so long. Finally, I would like to say very clearly that the GMO Act, which has been in force for more than 12 years, has been in line with the relevant EU legislation, the provisions of the law mentioned, as well as the new law on amendments and additions to the Law that this Parliament adopted in February, have ensured that Croatia still remains a country free of GMOs in our fields, at least officially. Following the above-mentioned HDZ club, it will not support this proposal for a law prohibiting GMOs because it is ineligible and unreal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83689	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Miro Bulj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83690	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. Here I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac and now my colleagues Križanić from HDZ for their observations, for their suggestions, but I am sorry that my colleague Križanić did not accept this to go to another reading, if he himself is aware that he is only growing in the Republic of Croatia if he is forbidden to do any more harm to our peasant, and you have ultimately explained that. From this soybean through Hungary come these GMO soybeans that are fed and controlled by no one, so we can see that the commercial used the most Agrokor after the recognition of Monsant's products and seeds is a known fact. So this is where you said we banned farming, and import and market remains. Well, of course they'll be there if the import is possible and the market of those cattle and that meat will give us if you've allowed it, you've allowed it. You understand logic, just logically. And this law couldn't have made that meat on our shelves, it couldn't have been because you banned farming, and you allowed imports, transportation and the market. So you can deliver it to the market to negotiate with someone two years ago, which was three, that's pointless. The fact is that the stock fund, i.e. As Croatia, we import the most pigs 131m euros, which is about a billion kuna, 71kg of fruit and vegetables per head of the population of the Republic of Croatia. I just said an example earlier where people here at the top of last year were drinking an entire orchard drank, a young orchard and went outside to see if ours couldn't fruit that was ecologically, conventionally organically produced in our way as we do traditionally had to drink a huge orchard and go out. For these all subsidisation subsidies that we give i.e. The export lobby that we give to invest in the irrigation of the Sinj field, the Vrgorak field, your neighborhoods that we gave in the incentives and production of pigs would then not from your parts, people from Slavonia would leave in the season in the Adriatic or Ireland, the Adriatic is even good, and households would remain empty, farms empty. It's huge money. So the fact is that we are the only one who is banned except for medical purposes, which I said, by banning GMO products, we can stop and import meat that is fed from soy in other countries, comes through Hungary and destroys our pig farming, our livestock production and complete production, and economics has catastrophic effects. If we are a tourist country, we have brands, so here I mention the Sinj arambashi, Glavički kuku, Vrgoračka jagoda, Slavonski kulen, and all of this was supposed to be from domestic products. What's it gonna be, these Hungarian soybeans, GMOs? So you yourself thank you for admitting that you are essentially allowed to import into Croatia and pigs that destroy Croatian villages and peasants, two-thirds of Croatia for that are empty and our legitimate right, I will not now list, and I have time for these genetically modified cultures of corn, soybeans, cotton, oily tails, tomatoes, potatoes, sugar tails, rice, wheat, kid, pumpkins, tobacco, chicory, flax, melon, papaya, etc. Even the melons are imported until we can sell our own products which are also GMOs, and who knows how to make Croatian production. In fact, we are destroying everything that can be destroyed and I think that this law and that we can create a front within Europe, the EU to protect Croatia from GMOs if we have land. 750,000 hectares of raw land where we can produce fruit and other agricultural products, not that 71kg per head we import fruit and vegetables who knows which and who knows what GMOs share in it. And proven, you say there are no GMOs, it has been proven that there are GMOs on the shelves of Croatia's 400 items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83691	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83692	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Bull, I understand your concern, but I don't understand your logic because it seems to me that you want to be more papal than the Pope. So, with amendments to the GMO Act, additional services have been made to strengthen the sovereignty of the Republic of Zagreb and its independence from Brussels, so that Zagreb, regardless of Brussels and the opinion of the European Commission, can bring a ban on the territory, part or whole of the Republic of Croatia, and also independent of Parma where the headquarters of the European Food Safety Authority is, and they are most responsible for health risks. Now, with amendments to the laws that have occurred no longer require scientific evidence of harmfulness, it is enough for a Member State to declare GM products incompatible and inappropriate for the public interest of the Republic of Croatia. So I don't understand, you're looking for something that's already been incorporated into these amendments and additions to the law, so I don't know why you're doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83693	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83694	I don't get it, so make a deal. I don't understand, import and transport allowed and market in the Republic of Croatia, so in the area of the Republic of Croatia, it's just not growing. That's why we're from Hungary, which your fellow party on behalf of the club was telling us, and it's a problem because they're importing what they're feeding us with soy, soy shotgun, which is a GMO product, and we're selling it cheaply. Here, he said a return for 20 kuna. And destroyed the pigmeat. We import 131m euros of pigs annually, and Slavonia is empty and now these people who have been engaged in pig farming or will be in season or in Ireland. Instead of that product, that this law is being brought in, to accept it and give another reading, did the Government itself admit in its opinion that at this moment it cannot accept it. To create that all together front to protect 750 thousand acres of unprocessed land where we can create our brands and sell, export, we do the opposite. And this law solves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83695	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83696	My colleague Bulj, so I said that the last Law was no doubt against the cultivation of GMOs, and that law had to be passed in order for the Government to pass the Regulation. I ask you again, for the 15th time. We are a single European market, an intertrade. There are no borders, no trucks, no meat clippers coming to the Republic of Croatia uninterrupted. There is not one, not at any border, barrier that this meat from the EU cannot pass. Tell me a way, except for exiting the EU and closing the borders, which is a way of controlling such meat that is a single European market, just like the single Croatian market when you drive from Zagreb to Split. There's no limit. Such meat that is now coming from Hungary, but not only meat but also live pigs that are now coming from Hungary, they're breaking the price to our producers at 7 kuna, they're going through this unhindered. Tell me how to ban it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83697	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83698	Well, this is one of the laws and where we should fight in the EU this way. This Law and we are a sovereign state and we can pass the law that you are essentially admitting ourselves that we have a problem, that pig-eating is destroyed, that the price is being reduced, you admit it yourself, in your area. And to import bad food that causes numerous tumor diseases further, is that food and you say what we're going to do. Well, here's how I'm the bill. Put him in another reading. Did the government itself admit that it's a good law, but that right now it can't accept it, so it's in the second, you can have me, if you don't have... Well, see that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I answer simply, that this law solves this problem and that these pigs that are fed to GMOs, which are harmful to the health of our people and destroy our pig producers and affect a lot the economy and demographic depopulation of those parts, that this law solves this problem and that everyone together in the European Parliament, if you have the courage, we say against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83699	The next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Bernarda Topolko will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83700	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law prohibiting GMOs to the respected representative of Mira Bulja, which proposes a complete ban on breeding, importing and placing on the market for all individual GMO products or groups of GMOs throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As far as this bill is concerned, the HNS Club can't support it for a few reasons. First of all, I will recall that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU and as such respects the European normative frameworks, European policies and legislation, and this proposal does not comply with the provisions of current EU legislation, which provides that EU Member States cannot prohibit, restrict or interfere with the placing on the market of GMOs as products or GMOs in the composition of products when they comply with the provisions of the Directive and of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 run 2003 on genetically modified food and feed for animals. In addition, Croatia's GMO Act, which regulates the conduct in the area of restrictions on the use of GMOs, has introduced them into the environment and placed them on the market in 2005 and has brought it into line with relevant EU legislation through several amendments so far. The last amendments to the Law were adopted in early February, which further improved Croatia's status in relation to GMO products and we actually have more restrictive rules than most EU countries where GMOs can be up to 1% in food, and that this is not specifically indicated on the product, while in Croatia, this limit is 0.9% and everything that crosses that line must be marked as GMO product. I will note that there is still a ban in Croatia on the cultivation of genetically modified crops, but I ask you how to prohibit the transport and transport of GMOs through the territory of the Republic of Croatia, with a view to the fact that Croatia is not an isolated island but is a country that respects international economic and legal norms. HNS is well aware of Croatia's potential for organic farming and sustainable agricultural production and we support every intention of improving and preserving them and, of course, through policies and legal frameworks, it is necessary to work continuously to promote agricultural production and preserve the environment. But in this process, it is necessary to adopt legal solutions that are in line with the application of good practice and European legislation to which we have committed to our EU membership. I note, however, HNS is not against GMOs, but for these reasons we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83701	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83702	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state. Here's the HSS club will support this proposal for a law banning GMO production and traffic in the Republic of Croatia. I hope that both HDZ and SDP and others who are against this law are not against this law simply because you think this is a populist law, that Mr Bulj is a populist, I think personally, and others that he does not need a new political rating and monitoring of his appearance because in many media he has been present over 1400 times discussed here in the Parliament and the whole of Croatia knows him. It turns out that he's got him everywhere, that it turns out to be what other people used to be said to come out of every pasture or talk about all the issues, so he gets involved in everything, that who's Vegeta to mix with everything. And what we in HSS want to say is that we want every consumer in Croatia to know what is in this pasture and that these ingredients in Podravka Vegeta are produced from domestic raw materials. Unfortunately, it's not today. Today over 90% is inside these products from imports. Yes, the HSS has been working and campaigning and it is for Croatia to be part of the EU and to respect European legislation, with the aim of preserving our production through the withdrawal of funds for agriculture and food production, raising our production to be sufficient in all areas of food production and that our consumer knows what it is eating. Is the existing Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition and Transport of GMOs in the Republic of Croatia 100% ensuring what we all want, what 21 counties want us to be without GMOs in the Republic of Croatia? No, and that's why we voted against the law because in one article it allows the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture to rule out where and which particles to be tried with GMOs, so we were against that law and therefore we support this law which is still a step further to protect domestic production. And the well-proposer said, if something is not in line with European directives and legislation, correct up to another reading to make one law that will protect domestic production and will be in line with European Directive 412/2015, because it also says that every country within the EU has the ability to limit or ban GMOs only needs a good explanation. Well, it is also the role of this debate, so I call on the scientific community to engage, to give us grounds to pass a more quality law to be part of this Europe and to produce food in our fields, that our consumer knows what he eats, and on the other hand to protect the health of these people. I'm an agronomist, just the direction of plant protection, I worked in the agricultural industrial combination of Nova Gradiška. After ten years of being here, he was more interested in wholesale plant protection funds and, as Ciro Blažević says, I imagine I know something about this problem, and I was also the head of agriculture in Brod-Posavina County, which is one of the first to bring it to his county assembly that we want to be without GMOs in our area, precisely for the reasons why I know what the problem is. One is the natural crossing of genes, plants, animals, secreting those that they have to increase productivity, productivity per unit of surface or per unit of throat. And the second is when you violently laser or some other mechanisms shoot a gene into a plant or animal tissue, and that happens with genetic modification. Your best example is tomatoes or tomatoes as anyone calls in their neighborhood. If we take from my mother or you from your mother from the garden after two or three days he softens, it starts to rot because it's a natural process. And what happens to the tomato you buy in a shopping chain that's imported from me don't know where, which is like a tennis ball beautiful, shiny, equal shape? Well, for a month, nothing will happen, so the genes that allow it have been introduced. But what happens after 5, 10 or 20 years? Does anyone do this research to the organism of a man who consumes such foods? That kind of food? He would remind me that in the '50s and '60s, we used a terrible good insecticide DDTI that was comprehensive, it solved all the problems with both the leafy ears and the animal pests and the human. After 20 years, it was found to be carcinogenic. It took 10 years to ban him and we still have him in the ground today in the remains because that's the way his half-life is. Similarly, it was established for glyphosate produced by the company mentioned. The active substance is glyphosate and the trade names are mentioned already here. I'm not going to advertise them. Why would I bring that up? The fact that consciousness is changing in Europe. The consciousness of European representatives. It has been asked by the European Parliament to prohibit the use of glyphosate in Europe and a broad debate has been opened, evidence for and against. And you know how long it's been in use for two years? For 2 votes in the European Parliament. What's he saying? Yeah, and we have to think about it, too, and don't wait for someone else to tell us now, but let's take it one step ahead. Also in 2001, 2002, the HSS launched an initiative to declare Croatia free from GMOs, we launched an initiative with Slovenia, Italy and Austria to be a region of the Alps-Adria without GMOs because we are aware that our 11 representatives in the European Parliament do not have the power to impose this will on the European Council and the European Parliament. But together with the countries of the environment, we can do it. And it is an opportunity to perform in this way, to protect our production even more, not to let what Mr. Križanić said on behalf of the HDZ club happen. It's sad that we can't shut down the borders and ban the imports of soya buckshot because we have nothing to feed our cattle with. And we have potential. We have our institutes, the Agricultural Institute of Osijek,... An institute that has a quality soybean seed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also have surfaces on which to sow but no, we need to introduce it because it's cheaper. Oh, please, if it's cheaper, I checked it out in the meantime, soy shotgun is sold in Croatia between 2.8 kuna and 3 kuna. And the mercantile soybean produced from our seed is also marketed between 2.8 and 3.2 kuna. And if you extrude that homemade soy of domestic seed, you have not only soy juice but also oil. And what's cheaper? Of course, it is unfortunate that we do not have the ability to feed these 500 000 pigs we produce in Croatia and we need 2.5 million. Here's where we brought our agriculture and agricultural production. We miss 2 million pigs because we don't protect domestic production enough, we don't encourage domestic production and we don't protect domestic science and industry like the institutes mentioned. And I also asked from this pay phone a month ago, before the soybeans were soybean soybeans began this year in Croatia because some companies, I won't name them, asked them to get a declaration that they could release 70% of the soybeans soybeans into the market. And they let it go. I asked to allow our agricultural producers to sow their own soybeans from their own attic that was better quality and that had a capacity of about 90%. And they have to buy this declaration from respected companies because it has to have an account that he bought 80kg of soybeans per hectare to claim the right to pay direct payments. Here's our absurd where one rule, one regulation, and the minister, because of extraordinary circumstances, could bring such a measure, he didn't. It means that we should have laws, we should have tools, but we must also have real policies, and the president herself said that she was saddened that we invested more than 40 billion in agriculture, that we halved production and that we do not have a strategy for the development of agriculture and food production in the Republic of Croatia. And that's what she was public talking about, and I'm talking about here, but we all have to move together and do something to really make our O.P.G.s, our companies and our companies, the trades that deal with agricultural production, have a chance. It's not true that genetically modified seeds are being harvested by a unit of surface. You can do this, have institutes our comparative indicators, crop experiments, seed varieties from Osijek Institute, with import and there are offerings, even some of them our own. It's not true it's cheaper production. There's a perimeter around here somewhere. Only the goal of foreign companies is to destroy domestic production, our market and our goal is to be dependent on imports. And then when a disaster like this happens that can happen like a swine fever in Hungary, then it's panic, we don't have enough of our own production, we can't protect our borders. And Mr Jovanovic says 129 samples were analysed in Croatia in 2016 and there are no GMOs present in any of them. 129 food clippers a week and may enter Croatia daily. Is that 129 analysis enough? No, and I was already talking about it here, that we need to increase control and quality analysis of all these samples to protect the domestic manufacturer. And here, 15 days ago, there was news in the media that it was pulling off the shelves of a large amount of meat because it was unconditional for human consumption. Yes, inspections work, but they do not have enough resources or capacity, and that is why we are all fighting together to strengthen domestic institutions, to enforce laws, but what is more important, for all of us to be equal in Croatia according to these laws. And it is unacceptable to crash domestic production, and to be so liberal and just say, we are part of the common European market and we cannot do anything other than that. And we are all aware and we know and we have spoken both Kržanić and I many times here, that there are support from EU members, which are not shown, in one way or another. Well, that cattleman with 15 cows couldn't be more than 2,000 feet above sea level in the Alps competitive with the one in the plains, but he has other support and stays up alive and products. Now that's what HSS requires to do, a special law on Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and other underdeveloped regions, with special support to preserve life and production in these parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83703	Thank you very much. Here, before we go any further, let's welcome the students of Nikola Tesla elementary school from Mirkovac and the students of the elementary school Ivan Goran Kovačić from... with a desire that when they grow up, they stay in their home in Eastern Slavonia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here he is, now the esteemed representative Miro Bulj will speak to us on behalf of the promoter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83704	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, behind the HNS Club which did not support and the HSS I have to show, that Croatia, every year, is increasing the import of food, and it is mostly GMOs... And I don't understand how you don't support it, so at least the other one, which is why, at least in the second reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why are rabbits trying to be our children, to eat this food that is unhealthy, to increase the number of diseases, to read, to say that these children are not being poisoned, and we have potential and capacity on earth, we have resources, 750,000 hectares of agricultural land unprocessed, we are a tourist country. In the heart of Europe, we have the Adriatic, we are a Adriatic country, instead of that food, ours, ours, ours, and that's why we have to fight. We sell on the market and our people have 2/3 of Croatia moving out. Where food can be produced, and not food that is the same, which has not been killed for 2 years, there is no natural process to be on the market during the season on our restaurants, along with the most beautiful coast in the world. We are the god of the day of the state, and 2/3 of Croatia is empty, we do not invest in irrigation, while in the same way we favour import lobbys. Import lobbys of unhealthy food, food where tumors are increased. And many other diseases. So the Chinese are thrilled with the products of black pigs, Slavonic, imagine how much market it is, lobbying, protecting, investing in this money, which gives lobbys that have been destroying Croatian villages and peasants for years to fight. But this bill makes it impossible for a colleague from the HDZ on behalf of the club, Križanić, to import pigs fed by GMOs, soy juice, which has increased the number of diseases. So lately, the public health care office has been deliberately silent, is it also giving evidence of an increase in the disease? Well, of course we're in Europe, so we're not in Africa, where are we? But we fight not to have 750,000 acres of unprocessed land. We're making that food. Make it a brand of Croatian. 71 kg of fruit and vegetables are imported annually per capita. What kind of fruit and vegetables, who controls who? There are 400 products on the shelves, so far, 400 products on Croatian shelves. And not only that, a colleague from the HSS mentioned and here I agree absolutely, that Monsanto, alone, in the area of the former Yugoslavia, representatives of these, say that the largest Monsant corn is sent to Western Croatia, meaning eastern Croatia, and the most useful means according to their words is Agrokor Ivica Todorovic and their production. And of course, when you changed the glyphosad in viticulture and fruit production most of all in Dalmatia, most of all in Dalmatia, and you said by 2 votes, that it should have been abolished and banned, is that from lobbying, are we poisoning? Are we poisoning ourselves? Do we have the right in the EU, to say our vote to this Parliament, about what is happening and to be their market, as a ban on growing, but we can be importing the market, their products. And that fellow Križanić himself admitted it, he admitted it to the man, I made the proposal. I'm sorry that the HNS, thank you to HSS, of course, but I'm sorry that the HNS doesn't take this topic seriously, raises it to another reading, to go to another reading, because the government itself says that at this point, there are no objections, that at this point, I can't pass this law. Why? Because they owe the lobbys, which have destroyed Croatian farmers, which is why 2/3 of Croatia is empty, and we have the greatest potential and resources, that I will repeat all day long, 750,000 hectares of ecologically preserved land, agricultural land, which is unprocessed and every day more and more. And all the legislative initiatives that have passed so far under the EU directive are designed to be bought by foreigners, for what? For in them the earth is not as good as it is preserved in us. The Agriculture Act, agricultural land in 2020 will also be able to sell the country to foreigners, and the OPG foreigners can open up to better criteria than Croatian citizens and Croatian peasants. 2/3 of Croatia is empty and this is the reason, support this in another reading or make the same law or better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83705	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first of which is the respected representative of Mladen Madero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83706	Thank you. Col. Bulj, clearly the HSS will support this bill of yours, because it is he who makes it impossible for his colleague Križanić to say that we are importing from Hungary, imagine, I importing from Hungary meat, such meat goes to the shelves of trade chains. We're practically allowing our own people to be poisoned, so is that normal? And now that this law, this law will make it impossible for them to support it. So I'm asking them, however, to go to another reading because this is really amazing that we ourselves admit to importing GMO-infected meat, and by this law we're going to disable it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83707	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83708	Well, that's amazing, and I agree with you that colleague Križanić, I agree with him that Hungarian meat and live meat and as a product, means that live pigs come at the time, Hungarian means via Hungary to the Republic of Croatia and that we are destroying pig husbandry. And it's not only that it's damage health is most important because it's proven that GMOs are contaminated, and we don't know what they're going to be, later on results mostly on young children and that our children are test rabbits. And we're not going to talk about how much it is for economic growth, for emigration, for a demographic image because people can deal with pig-eating, and this law solves it, only the tribune improves it if it stands. I'm making the law the way I gave it. And I think I should go to another reading. And the government doesn't object in its opinion, but says now is not the moment of this law. And of course, because apparently Monsanto's lobbyes have too much pressure on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83709	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83710	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, I am absolutely against GMOs, but do you know what our problem is? We have this problem that we have been abandoning our agriculture and livestock for over 20 years, that there is no strategy to improve agriculture and livestock, that we have done nothing as a state to round people into some kind of cooperative. We have some kind of a dangerous notion. Cooperative, imagine it's something from the former system, and the cooperative is nothing but a corporation of farmers and cattlemen. So why hasn't the state launched any activities that farmers and cattleherds corporate that they work together, that they participate together. No, I don't. We work at the store, we work to help merchants, we work to help financial institutions spill from hollow to empty and get rich on it. How do you see how it's possible to change this policy that's been completely wrong for 25 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83711	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83712	A fellow Alexic, the fact that political elites actually favored import lobbys. It is an eclectic example, but we are increasing our food imports every year, I am and will repeat again that Croatian citizens, we import 71 kg of fruits and vegetables per capita, while at the same time our orchards drink their orchards from the revolution and go to Ireland. So, we only give huge money for pig farming 131 million euros. So we encourage essentially that food to import, and we don't encourage it, so these are import lobbys. It is a crime against the Republic of Croatia and it has done more evil than all the occupiers, Chetniks, Turks, 2/3 of Croatia are empty. ... 2/3 of Croatia is empty and I am disappointed. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83713	.../Intruder Glasnović: You're lying, you're lying./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83714	.../Intruder Reiner: Please. Comrade Glasnović, please calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83715	2/3 of Croatia is empty because it is suitable for foreign corporations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83716	... [[Vlasnović: not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83717	It's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83718	.../Intruder Reiner: Comrade Glasonović, calm down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83719	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83720	.../Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Glasnović, I give you a reminder./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83721	... [[Attack Glasnović: you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83722	The next replica is respected... Comrade Glasnović, that's enough!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83724	... [[Attack Glasnović: you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83725	Enough! Enough! The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will, in 2005, when it was debated, then Mr. Bozidar Pankretic said, if all the counties adopt a decision to be free of GMOs, then the GMO law won't be necessary at all. I also reiterate that these changes and additions strengthen Croatian autonomy, sovereignty that, regardless of Brussels and Parma, decisions can be made. And one question for you, colleague Bulj, how will you limit, therefore, insects, butterflies and winds that carry pollen across state borders, how do you plan to do so with these amendments to the Law?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83727	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83728	... Quoting Einstein who clearly said, when the bee is gone, it's a very short time for people to disappear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you've turned it around now. The fact is that the Croatian state is 750 thousand hectares of agricultural land, and we have allowed us to import from Hungary contaminated via Hungary, contaminated GMO pigs and live and meat. That's a fact. And this law gives us a solution. And the government admits it where it says it is not the time in its opinion, that now is not the time to protect farmers, Croatian farmers. We must be sovereign and we can produce, and this money we give for import, to give to the peasant. Well, here I am, in the well, in the blue end, a lot of people leave, drinking their orchards. So look at what's on the market. Where are domestic Croatian products? It's the people of Slavonia going to the Adriatic now, instead of their goods being in our restaurants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83729	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83730	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, it is no wonder that this bill of yours has caused a little more debate than the intensity itself. From what I understand, you want the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to eat healthy food, and what is the problem, we cannot produce enough of that healthy food. I agree with you, if you come to my place in Slatin, we can walk freely under the silo, there's no more pigeons up there that we have to be afraid not to mess us up. So, what I agree with my colleague Alexic, Croatian agriculture has no strategy. In the last 30 years, Croatian agriculture has been marked by false manipulators who have dealt only with agriculture because of incentives. Now they come at a time when we have to decide whether Croatian agriculture will be built on a healthy basis. Minister Tolusic gave a good framework, and I am surprised that the law has passed. When he allowed units of local self-government to limit the amount of land that a single farmer could rent, we will see how it will eventually pass, whether this ministry will only stop that decision of the law that he made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83731	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83732	In short, the state had a strategy but a strategy for import lobbying and destroying Croatian villages. The Croatian peasant could have survived in these areas, we have a market, we are a tourist country, we have brands. We have our own gastro offer in every area. We have from Dalmatian prosciutto to Slavonic cuisine. And we have the possibility of developing it from Croatian pigs, to be Dalmatian prosciutto, not import pigs that are GMOs and no one controls. And that's why we import the pig the most. That's why our villages are empty because it's not worth producing. And this law makes it impossible to import those pigs. So we're making it impossible to import these pigs here. And I think this law that goes to agricultural land, we'll see who, when foreigners can, who will own this more quality land, is 750,000 ha.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83733	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you suggested...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83735	My colleagues and colleagues, let's listen to my colleague Lovrinović for a moment, please. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83736	Dear counterpart Bulj, you have proposed a law banning GMOs and party change Croatia will support your proposal. This is not a party issue because all representatives of all parties are exposed to the dangers posed by the consumption of foods in which it is contained, so the crops are genetically modified. You are stating that there are over 700,000 ha of unprocessed land, that it is healthy soil, etc., but I want to stress here that this is not about their ignorance. They all know that. This is a state policy, i.e. policies led by the parties leading Croatia over the past 20 years. Only new parties that have come to the Croatian Parliament can change such a harmful policy and preserve Croatian citizens and Croatian peoples from various diseases and guarantee them one health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83737	The answer of the esteemed representative of Bulj, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83738	Chairman, if you can, I know they don't care about this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83739	Please calm down so that Comrade Bull can answer. Please. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83740	Thank you. I agree with my colleague Lovrinović that political elites have basically worked against the interest of Croatian agriculture for years, that they worked in the interest of import lobbys and this proposal gives a framework that can be changed in other readings but they do not want it. And I agree entirely that simply the new people, it feels, that the new political options, who will be in the next term, will not, that they will still stand in the end just so it won't be too late, I'm afraid. Is the government saying, she states,... He knows what's going to happen that I can't support this right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is a sign that it will be in the next moment and probably when these old political elites are no longer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83741	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83742	Mr. Vice President, I don't think it's possible in these conditions to work, so please stop the debate until these handlifters do the job, and let's talk about this smart and good subject later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83743	I asked my colleagues to calm down, and here, they calmed down. We'll continue the debate. A colleague named Branimir Bunjac, is not here, is losing his right to debate. We will now return to the debate individually on the proposal for a law on the ban on GMOs. He's reporting for discussion, individual, respected representative Zeljko Lenart, is not here, losing his right to speak. And the next is Honorable Representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83745	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, I will, of course, support your proposal, which is understood. GMO is something that's completely unexplored, we don't know how it's gonna end. In the end, we hear that in 10 or 20 years, we might find out how good that is or not good. So, the very risky thing is GMOs and we have to ban it in Croatia, but what I would like to talk about, besides that, is the fact that we haven't done anything in 25 years to raise our agriculture and our livestock farming to the level of countries that have very developed it. Why didn't we ask her now? Let's remember in that former system there was a dispute over how labor is stretched out in front of farmers and cattlemen, and then people run off to workers, no one wants to be a farmer and a cattleman. People were only dealing with the domestic needs of agriculture and livestock; it wasn't something organized at a higher level. However, the Republic of Croatia needed both agriculture and livestock to raise to a far higher level and should have helped people join together and work together. To produce together, to place products together, to get away from traders who use them, to sell their products at some real price, not to be used by traders, to buy from them at low prices and then sell at 5 times the price to consumers. How do you do that question is now? If we've ignored it these 25 years back, how do we do it now at once? How to change politics completely? How to form a strategy to improve our agriculture and livestock, to make people turn to this way of production and see for it? Here, I recently spoke to a man who explained to me what foreign corporations are doing in the Republic of Croatia. They are doing the following, agreeing with our OPGs, which then grow the baby in their countries, that the baby is drying, peletizing and driving to Austria, and then with that baby of ours, the Austrians feed their cows. And then they sell us the meat of those cows. So instead of producing here, we buy meat from outside, which may be quality, I'm not saying it isn't, but why don't we really raise it to a higher level in the Republic of Croatia, why don't we really turn it into a real, real ecological country, which Croatia is, it's still not polluted as some other highly developed industrial countries. Why not turn strategically towards higher production in agriculture and livestock, why not link it to tourism? Why not further brand it, and why not become recognized in the world as an oasis of organic products? We can do it, but we can't do it without the state. It is the state that has to come up with a strategy, the state that has to help people improve their production and make it worth their while. When someone says the word cooperatives, many go back to socialism, but the cooperative is nothing but a corporation. Today, cooperatives should actually be a corporation of farmers, cattle corporations, which also produce and sell. If they're going to produce and sell, then the big trade chains and smaller trade chains will certainly come to another plan. So, this kind of policy that we're running, all we're allowing is that foreign traders and domestic merchants collect fat, while those who produce barely survive. I wouldn't last any longer. I think I've said enough. We really need a global strategy, a state strategy, long-term plans, so we need to gather the best heads in the Republic of Croatia who know how to do this, and we really need people to really help them produce in a sustainable way, and that is not the way that has been so far to encourage people and not to think about what that incentive will spend. We know that incentives have been spent on things, not on what they should have been spent on, and that's why the state has to be in control. If a good and quality long-term strategy is made, that control will not be left behind, and there will certainly not be any results, and it will certainly help in a demographic sense, so people will go out less, new opportunities will open up and stay here and produce here because it will be worth it. At this point, we have barely sustainable agriculture, barely sustainable livestock, and therefore we are at low levels as far as this is concerned, and GMOs will further put all this into the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83746	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83747	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our colleague Alexic, in one thing we absolutely agree on, which is that Croatia lacks visions. We don't have a strategy to develop agriculture, we don't know where we're going, and unfortunately, it's a problem in not only agriculture, the economy in general in the development of the state, we don't have a clear vision of how we want to develop, in which direction, and that's very important for strategic branches like agriculture. GMO's definitely a problem. We're looking into the U.S. how many problems they have because of the major GMO injuries. However, I would also point out that the EU has done much to limit GMOs in the EU, as well as our representatives in the European Parliament who have been very active on this issue. So, we don't need GMOs, we have a quality country, we also know how, so the knowledge that we can use just say, put that country in place and we need to put farmers in office and develop it strategically, in the long term and in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83748	The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83749	Thank you. Col. Hajdukovic, it's just that customerism is a cancer that eats Croatia, and that customerism is everywhere and so is this part of agriculture and livestock. Clientism is something that must be put into optimal frameworks when one day we have, if we experience it, hopefully we will, the situation that the best among us who are capable of a particular area will do the jobs that are responsible in this area, then we can expect progress. As long as they settle on the party key, according to the political key, as long as those who come down from power are trapped somewhere by those who were their people, and the government allows them to wait somewhere in the seal, so when the new government comes to take them back, we'll have a situation like that. So, clientism is a cancer that eats up the Republic of Croatia and it has to be eradicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83750	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83751	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, my colleague Alexic, I listened very carefully and I agree with everything you've been saying, and here's a colleague from MOST who made these suggestions. However, I would like to say that we should be very careful when it comes to GMOs. I wouldn't want it to come down to the witch hunt. We've had many times in the history of such examples. It might be good to be careful in the qualification of whether GMOs are good or bad. I think I'm more of a bad guy. However, it seems to me that we really need to have concrete information as to how harmful it is to human health. How bad is it? So if we could have such data, and we know that GMOs haven't been among us for a long time, so if we could give one real qualification even though here, I would ask how good we are for our agriculture and our traditional way of using pesticides? I have to tell you that at this point, and I don't know much about GMOs, and none of us know much about GMOs, I'm much more concerned about pesticides than about GMOs. Here, that's my opinion, and as far as agriculture is concerned, we can really talk for a long time about what's better for agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83752	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83753	Thank you. Well, you see, I said we should force organic production. If we force ecological production, then pesticides will be much less, but this state has to strategically design and then it needs to help people because organic production is safer and more risky, they're certainly less likely to win, but if it's strategically designed, then the possibilities are huge. Especially since we have tourism, if the tourists who come here realize that here you can eat healthy, peasant to say so, then they will come even more and enjoy here in our food because they enjoy it now, but when they have real proof, argument, the fact that food here is extra class, it will be even stronger and better. So tourism with agriculture and livestock can really lead to peaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83754	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the final thing will be said by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83755	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have raised one question in essence which is the key issue of the development of the Republic of Croatia, which is what we have and what God has given us, along with being a tourist country, it is agricultural land. I'll repeat that again and again, at this point 750,000 hectares of farmland, ecologically preserved we have that we don't use, and it's just us who have to potentiate it, and not that, as so far, import lobbys are spreading food through meat or animals, waiting for what in the case of pigs I said that, where 131 million euros per year, Croatia imports only a pig, it's a billion kuna, we're just talking about a pig. At that moment when we talk about this law, I expect not to tell me we don't know what science will say about GMOs, and why we would be guinea pigs, why would we destroy our economic system and potential, why would we destroy agriculture in order to ban the existing law from growing, and we allowed the market, which means selling and transport across our territory. Well, I think it's absurd, it's incompatible. We in this law are existing, is this law when we enter into force which I have proposed, and I hope and expect from the MPs that they will accept it and go into another reading, we are essentially preventing that pork and other meat that has been contaminated by GMOs and a colleague from SDP from saying just before what the consequences are and then we have gathered scientists and all the consequences of GMOs, of course we can't know everything, but why should we be trying rabbits of poor food quality. So we're importing everything today, only in 2015, and so on the rise, 110% of the imports of eggs have increased, and two-thirds of Croatia is empty. Therefore, we have this bill of mys that I have given exclusively because it is unclear to me that we have an existing GMO law that says you cannot grow, but can be imported, can be sold. We sell pigs that are full of GMO soys means contaminated and, of course, that the pigs' doors will then be 15 kunas in the centres of foreign and which is then our interest, which we have an interest in. And we have all God-given, we have tourism, we have land ecologically preserved, and this law prevents it from being activated and that this money that we give to import to protect such a poor quality of food that comes into us. Do we have to know once again that 76 kg per year per capita we import vegetables and fruits, that's not a small amount. 50% fruit and vegetables needs we import. While I'm talking about my end here's about Vrgorec the man was dealing with, the young man fruit growing peaches couldn't sell them because of the import lobby and GMO food is better-looking, they're cheaper but they're not naturally ecologically preserved. A man of rage and no longer able to fight that competition illegally took a chain saw and drank a young peach orchard. And that's true, and now that man's gone to Ireland. What are we talking about here? So this law defends the import of GMOs. how to control is we in the EU, that we are part of Europe. So we fight, we send a message from here, not a government opinion says at this point we're not prepared to uphold this law. When will this moment be, Mother of God? When there are no more villages, when there are no more peasants on agricultural land. In any case, laws were passed here in 2020, and foreigners can buy land, which is what we in Most and most of the opposition clubs have warned about since 2020. OPGs can now open foreigners under more favourable circumstances than Croatian citizens and citizens. What did we do? We have made it possible that Hungary has banned the purchase of agricultural land, but Hungarian Hungarian legal and natural person can buy our agricultural land and it will buy for small money. Purely preserved land, ecologically, of course, that will have to process if it's abandoned. Once again, we are importers of bread, we are importers of bread means 107m euros importing bread and bakery products, and 750,000 hectares of land is lying to us. Let's stop. What kind of politics is that? And I agree with my colleague Alexic and his colleagues from HSS, where they say that cooperative is what should be potential, and it should be pursued and done in the cluster system, these products, these sales and so on. But the fact that Monsanto mentioned the pesticides that Monsanto, I am not going to repeat now the names of all pesticides, this is to favour the policies of import lobbys, import corporations that favor EU directives, is that they are lobbys within the EU. And why should we, as a Parliament that has all the conditions, Croatian Parliament and for agricultural production and for the market, have tourism, which is why we would be selling pork from Hungary that enters Hungary which is contaminated in the tourist season? And our people who used to have farms in Slavonia and other parts go to the waiters and work on the coast, empty farms or even worse go to Ireland, instead of being the other way around. We have always mentioned the combination of blue and green Croatia, this law is a combination of blue and green Croatia. I'm not saying he's the best, but he's clear. We do not interfere here for medical purposes, meaning in GMOs which, for medical purposes, some minister determines by a rule of insulin, other preparations. Unfortunately, we also destroyed what we produced in Croatia. I make it clear here once again that the laws so far, and in particular this current GMO law in the Republic of Croatia, are suitable for import lobbys and harmful food is imported, and this has been proven and we know that products that are of a lower quality are sold more expensive than we which are imported from the EU. That's what many of our scientists were talking about, and at least I can mention Albert Einstein, that's what's left of him, so that moment, he's always repeating it, but it's proven. The moment the bee disappears, people will disappear. It is predicted that if the bees were gone, that within four years the whole... Four, five. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're not supposed to play around here, or catch witches. We only encourage domestic organic production here. In Slavonia we have meaning Slavonic tower, in Zagorje, each has its own brand. I'm here to descend to my end, to the Chetian end. We have an arambache, a Dalmatian prosciutto, a head cabbage, known by former Prime Minister Milanovic, he is from Glavica, a head cabbage. It's a triba brand, it's a triba... The prosciutto, we got it. But we can't have a prosciutto unless we have a pig. Can we have GMO Hungarian? We must encourage, so we give a billion kunas for importing only pigs and 50% importing fruits and vegetables. I see me – tomatoes, we say the pardons in Dalmatia, when they come from outside all the same. Like twins. A whole box of twins. Same size and I've been holding them for a year, and they're always the same color beautiful, but it doesn't taste good. Is that natural? Is it natural that what happens to pesticides all over Brazil, South America, China, where there are no bees because there are no bees these pesticides, so people climb the branches and shake themselves. Well, it's shown in documentaries that are serious. We have evidence of bee mutations that are, I mean, we have evidence of a number of these things and that's why. The human hand shouldn't bring down the whole system. And when we look at the Republic of Croatia, they are afraid of the EU and the directive that favor Monsanto in this case. And everyone sees it alive, too, everyone. And it has scientific literature. Well, people publish that. But these companies are too strong for us to fight them, but we have as Parliament the possibility of this law being passed. Of course, I expect if the government were to pass and give their amendments, so let them change it, or let them bring in a better one. But no, this one, which is at the expense of Croatian agriculture where it is prohibited to grow, is allowed to import that food and absolutely destroy Croatian agriculture. 2/3 of Croatia's empty, tourism will be made more by outside producers, farmers than Croatian farmers, and that is the only point of this story. In the end, here's another buy Croatian, let's buy on the towels said in Dalmatia, on... The markets, we go to our OPGs, we fight these harmful foods contaminated by our imports, we fight it, and one way to emphasize our purchase of Croatian, let's buy our own home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] None of us are the world, everyone goes to... I'm aware of that, but we're all trying to motivate and shop with our people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the key. Otherwise, this Law, which the Government now refuses to accept, is suitable for GMOs, large multinational companies that produce and various toxicities, is pesticides, herbicides that are poisonous and lobbying in the EU to be on the market, so they pass hardly by a vote and one, two votes. ... Calls on our Europarliamentaries to be loud, to call for a review of everything that's going on in terms of GMOs, and let's not let our children be test rabbits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, at least that. If we suspect that this isn't how it's written, how it's spoken, then let's not let our children be guinea pigs. Here, at least that. Here, dear secretary, let's fight it loud and clear, let's not be courtesies to the harm of our people, is it GMOs, I'd like to mention... Pigs, and so fruit and agriculture, we give billions of kuna, tens of billions of kunas for importing and food that threatens human health, the number of tumors is increased, but nobody says that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are the reasons for the increase in tumours? Imports of food. Here, once again, my fellow Members and colleagues thank you all and those who have made their remarks, I think that every parliamentary representative in voting with this Act will stand before himself, regardless of party membership. I am sorry that the Government has given this opinion that at this point, I cannot support the law on the ban on GMOs, but I expect that in, as in Parliament, there are people who talk about it openly, and even we propose laws, that soon there will be most of the people's MPs who will stand in the protection of the Croatian economy, Croatian agriculture, Croatian tourism, Croatian economies, and that such a law in the defence and fight and at EU level will still pass and that we will be a strong plow in the protection of national interests, rather than the Brussels officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83756	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83757	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bulj, here's HSS is absolutely against GMOs in the Republic of Croatia in any way. About the harmfulness of this Dr. Agronomy Mr. Marian... he wrote a book entitled "Izum without Reason" or when we read it differently, mindless mind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, it tells of the harmfulities of GMOs and these productions, but unfortunately our government does not listen to experts, they have proven themselves to be in the protection of large capital, banking sector and simply do not think about the Croatian people. Unfortunately, there is neither mind nor reason in our government nor invention. We have often mentioned Hungary here. I wish Croatia had a prime minister like Hungary, who opposes the EU and does what is best for its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83758	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83759	I have nothing to add. In this debate we have come to the conclusion, the only thing we can say and tell our colleagues to the other parliamentary representatives is that the government has not accepted that the vote will give this an opportunity to go to another reading and that we will make improvements to this proposal and that we will jointly protect what is strategic, which is Croatian agriculture, economic growth, the survival of people in these areas and the production of healthy food, and we have a place to place it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83760	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83761	Thank you very much. Comrade Bull, you mentioned pig meat and import. So that's why it's an important strategy and strategic thinking about the development of our agriculture. In fact, you probably know for yourself that Denmark is the largest pigmeat producer in the EU and that it is simply very difficult to be competitive with those who have been preparing and building the system for years to be the largest producer. Therefore, we must clearly agree with ourselves first where we want to direct our agriculture. We cannot compete with the Danish, therefore by no means price, and we need to decide which direction we will be developing agriculture in then, whether it is organic production, so production for a little bit, but quality that is recognised on the market not only in Croatia but also in Europe, or whether it is some other direction, but we must choose that direction. We should have picked him 20 years ago, but it's not too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83762	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83763	Thank you very much. ... my friend Marko Buratovic wrote his status on January 26th "Swine budget. The other day there were delegations from China and they saw domestic black Slavonian pigs grow, they would immediately order five million pieces. To illustrate better, if they were exported to Luci Ploče it is eight rows of pigs, one pig per metre from Bajakova-Serbia to Ploč 777 km, it is 600 tons of meat. If a kilo of such organic pigs is 20 kuna live scales that is 12 billion kunas, a tenth of the budget, the Pelješki bridge from VAT, the rest is given to politicians chosen for wages and that do not happen to come to work. I could've broken up like Mujo in Apollo, the Croats are missing high-tech, the German invented it all anyway. Close one lane of freeway for seven days and there's a hip. Make Slavonia happy." I'd end up with this is a man ordinary from the people, he's a professor but a man has told the whole story. Politicians, put your paws away, and mostly the import lobby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83764	Thank you. That's how I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And for a dozen of us who are here in the hall, we will continue the session on Wednesday 23rd May at 9.30 and the first item will be the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2017. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.36 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-18-0.u83765	Proposal for a Law banning genetically modified organisms, first reading, P.Z. No. 291, the promoter is MP Miro Bulj, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The bill on the ban on genetically modified organisms is not accepted, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 3 abstentions and 39 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The report on the work of the Water Services Council, from March 2015 to December 2016, is the applicant of the Water Services Council. On this item of the agenda, we will vote in accordance with article. 44 paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Water Services Council is hereby adopted from March 2015-December 2016. Please vote. I am determining it by a majority vote of 77 for and 3 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home constituency working body.
