ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66943	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, everyone. We'll vote today, but here I see a esteemed colleague from the SDP, has more hands, here you go. Let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66944	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDP representative club is asking for a break of 10 minutes related to tonight's statements by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. an obvious discrepancies in the conduct of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66945	A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66946	On behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, please take a break from 10 to talk about an anti-executive package that will present to the clubs of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, MOST and HSS today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66947	A colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66948	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club to discuss problems in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66949	Comrade Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66950	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of GLAS and HSU, the topic is the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66951	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66952	I'm looking for a break in the matter of completed and blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66953	A fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66954	I'm looking for a break on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66955	Okay. He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66956	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66957	A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66958	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ representative's club, I demand a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66959	That's it, eight demands. We'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] We're going back to work. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66961	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, once again. [[Intrudica Jandroković: My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and treat your colleagues correctly.]] The president of the Republic of Croatia spoke with the president of the Russian Federation yesterday, Mr Putin. She congratulated him on winning first, right after China, Cuba, Venezuela and Serbia, and then cordially invited him to visit the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards, during the day yesterday, they asked the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia what he thought of the call, the Prime Minister who went to a meeting of the European Council to discuss certain killings in the United Kingdom considered responsible to be Russia, and he replied that he had read the news. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia read, read, that the President of the Republic of Croatia invited Putin to the Republic of Croatia. He didn't know about it in advance, he didn't deal with her about it. However, after giving the statement that he did not know about the call to the president of the Russian Federation, the Prime Minister took part in a meeting of the European Council, where 28 heads of state and the EU government, including the Republic of Croatia, unanimously found Russia alone responsible for the attack by nerve poisoning in the UK. As in the best times of the Cold War, only instead of the umbrella today, some more sophisticated methods are being used. Afterwards, as it did not care, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia had a rather dramatic statement about the Croatian public that the Republic of Croatia was considering diplomatic measures against the Russian Federation and that the two options under consideration were to ban Russian diplomats from the territory of EU member states, or recall European ambassadors from Moscow. I will remind you, all on the same day as the President of the Republic of Croatia invites the President of the Russian Federation to visit the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The President of the Republic embarrassed herself and the duty he was acting a few days ago with her shameful statements in Argentina. A colleague named Bauk asked a question from this place, imagine what it would have been like to have made such a statement by Angela Merkel? It would be, as my colleague Bauk said, very simple. On her return to Germany, she'd either be in prison or some other facility. However, the president of the Republic of Croatia did not experience any of this on her return to Croatia, however. She was given another chance to embarrass herself and her duty. Unfortunately, this time it also compromised the position of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, the SDP advocates' club insists that a meeting of the state summit be held as soon as possible to finally bring the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia into line. Few of us, respected colleagues and colleagues, cannot speak with two voices, at least not when it comes to external relations. At least not when those two votes are the diametrically opposite voice of the president of the Republic of Croatia and of the president of the Republic of Croatia. It's a call I make to the state summit, and the call I make to all of us is much simpler, but more long-term. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think the time has come for all of us to consider together whether the Republic of Croatia needs this kind of dualism in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66962	Second debate, respected colleague Goran Aleksic, Advocacy of the Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66963	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The government of the Republic of Croatia has announced measures for blocked citizens, measures that will make their position easier for them at the first moment, I welcome these measures, I cannot say that I do not welcome them. They will certainly help some people temporarily, but they will not permanently. So, after a year, after these measures have passed, the situation will repeat, nothing will happen. The problem needs to be dealt with systematically. To this end, in order to solve the problem systematically, the SNAGA Party has prepared a mini anti-executive package, an amendment and addition to the Implementing Law and the Law on Mandatory Relations. And I tried to get that anti-executive package, as many club representatives as possible, to support it, so I managed to get my club to the side of those laws, I managed to get the Club Mosta and I managed to get the club HSS. I thank my club, I thank the Most Club, I thank the HSS Club, which together we will send this anti-executive package in the form of proposals and amendments and additions to the Executive Act and amendments and amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, to the Assembly procedure. Although it is a minianti executive package, it will do a lot of good in the next 3.4 years if it is accepted in the parliamentary procedure. What's this about? It is that this anti-exploitation package aims to minimise the cost of the implementation and tighten interest. In what way? Let's start with the Mandatory Relations Act. The current way of collecting debts, where interest and expenses are first charged first, and only then the principal, are very bad for the debtors, because the debtors who pay their debts in such a way, and they are in gable because they do not have enough financial resources, to pay off the debt until the end, are constantly paying for tight interest and expenses and do not come to the capital. And they pay, they pay for years of constantly tightening interest and the cost of the execution, and they don't even touch the principal. Therefore, it is transferred to the Law on Mandatory Relations, to reverse the order and to charge first the principal, then the costs and interest. If this were to be charged, the debtors would be in a much faster situation. The second thing, tight interest is not limited, and should be limited, this has already been said before. I think they were limited in that former state to the size of the principal and are proposed to tighten interest limits to the height of the principal. So, if someone owes a 100 kn head, when they tighten the interest at 100 kn, it's no longer charged. Stop, there can't be more than 100 kn tight interest. In the Executive Act itself, it is proposed to re-propose what has already been proposed and not accepted, that the only real estate should not be carried out, in the case of a credit with a variable interest rate, and in that loan, a variable interest rate, is not agreed correctly. So, if a man is obliged above what he may be obliged to do, that his only property must not be completed until the moment, until the bank has agreed an interest rate with the debtor in a proper manner. We can't let an unfair business subject finish, it's scandalous, I find it scandalous. The second thing, the change on the confiscation of full income, which was signed before 17 June 2008, must be put out of force. It has already been put out of force by the Constitutional Court decision of 2009 when the Constitutional Court found that no whole income could be made to anyone, because that is contrary to the law. 55. The Constitution and the article, it seems to me to be the first constitution. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has already established that all receipts must not be made. It has nothing to do with that decision to put that rulebook out of force, signed by the minister. That's got nothing to do with it. But more specifically and more about what I talked about at 10:30 at the press conferences, where the Live Wall and SNAGA clubs, the Mosta Club and the HSS Club will participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66964	We're going to the 3rd debate, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66965	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break so I could talk about the problems in agriculture. As part of these other political issues, we have somehow forgotten agriculture and food production. These days, our agriculture is under great pressure from climate change, i.e. high water conditions and threatening floods. Well, first of all, from this pay phone, I welcome all Croatian soldiers, firefighters and other civil protection associations that are on the ground and who are here today, who agree with the dikes and worry about flooding the agricultural surfaces. However, the question is how will agricultural producers, whose surfaces have been affected, and large areas have been affected both in Lika and in the vicinity of Karlovac, Jasenovac, Stara Gradiška, due to high coastal waters, large agricultural areas, winter cultures and pastures are underwater. The Minister of Agriculture is not advocating, we see that the areas were visited by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior, and the Minister of Agriculture was not. Where's the minister? How will agricultural producers be compensated for the damage caused by these high coastal waters and by floods? We ask that the minister also be shown on behalf of all agricultural producers who expect the news. We also expect news to rise food production in Croatia, and there is no food withdrawal without investment, no fertilisers, no mineral fertilisers. We still have no news, and we have repeatedly sought a solution here for domestic petrochemical producer Kutina is still waiting for the ruling response in which this company will be restructured, whether we will have the production of fertilisers in Croatia or we will be dependent on import lobbyes and the import of fertilisers and without them there are no high yields. The second or third problem is also state agricultural land, no production without that resource. The agricultural land law has been passed, it has entered into force. The units of local self-government and regional government shall have a obligation of 90 days to bring a programme of availability to state agricultural land within 90 days. And the minister left himself 180 days for the regulation to regulate what the programme should contain. Minister, where's the rule? Well, I can't have units of local self-government bringing in their programs without that rule. And what's the key question is, what are the farmers asking when the contest is going to be because a lot of contracts have expired. How farmers will report their area for direct payments in this year until 30 May if they do not have State agricultural land contracts because they have expired. And what's most important is no production without sowing, no quality production without quality seed. And what did the minister do? From the field comes horrifying information, people are disgusted, defeating the profession, that the minister has allowed the transport of the seed soy with a 70 per cent clearance. It's really another proof that it suits import lobbys and foreign companies, because we know that our companies produce seed soybeans from 85 to even 93% and that this one of 70% is not conditional. Why soy seed is allowed, they do not have enough on the market. And if it's not enough on the market, then why don't we let our family farms sow their soy, because they have a better soy in their warehouses than they'll have to buy this seed. And they have to buy it because the Direct Payments Regulation ordered them to show that they bought 80 kilos and soybeans, they must have invoices, declaration and everything else. And okay. It needs order. But this is an extraordinary year. If it has already failed the production of seed soybeans, if the profession has failed the exam conditionally, then the minister has also failed the exam because he has allowed the transport of such unconditional soybeans. If we really want to protect food production in Croatia and if there is our chance, and the chance is because there is a soybean production from 40,000 hectares to 78000 hectares in Croatia that we now want to benefit from? Import lobbys and companies that import us and GMOs through this seed soybeans because certain parties in the seed soybeans and GMOs have been observed. Ministers allow family farms, make a decision and that they can sow their soybeans and thus leave 350 kunas in their pocket per hectare. This will preserve rural space and food production in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66966	Thank you. We're going to debate number four, honorary colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66967	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It was really irresistible to ask for a break after all because here's the last chance that we can have a break in the morning Friday, because from the next time we see each other, it won't be possible anymore. Likewise from this pay phone, a man often uses words that he has to say something else very quickly. I've talked about Agrokor a few times, and every time I say I hope I speak last time, and I won't say it this time. I'm sure I don't speak for the last time, because I'm sure I'll talk about Agrokor a few more times. I spoke from this pay phone and that we all have two Agrokors, one Agrokor Mr. Ivica Todorovic, and the other is Agrokor who started with Mr. Ramljak and now the key question is whether at this point we have the third Agrokor who leads Commissioner Fabris Perusko or perhaps another Agrokor. I remind you that a year after we brought most of this, by the will of the majority in this assembly, lex Agrokor was on April 10th or 10th, that at one of his final stages, former Commissioner Ramljak said he needed another 3 months and that it would be 10.7. Unlike Mr. Ramljak, who obviously liked media performances and media talk. We have a commissioner now who doesn't like it very much, but it's a question of what he's doing. The question is, what's going on? The question is where everything goes, the whole story goes in the context of something that we have a chance to see both in the papers and yesterday and today, and these are announcements of the gatherings. And all of a sudden all the announcements that he's picking up electricity, that he's going to collect in the city of Zagreb waste disposal all kind of experience normal and no one's doing some big story about it. However, there is another announcement where Agrokor suppliers say what they will deliver to Agrokor through his network will also have decided to collect. The question from this pay phone is, where is the story with Agrokora going? Is that the other Agrokor, Agrokor Ramljak-Perushko? Are we working on a third Agrokor? And the key question. Recently, one room was shown on one of the media, which was packed with several cubes, or in a few meters there were possible lawsuits, or lawsuits that were filed. The question is what's going to happen with it and the question is who's going to end up answering it. When the light goes out, when the stage lights go out with Agrokor and you see that they're getting pale and pale, you finally know who's paying. They pay the citizens and pay the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I think the time has come for us to, or again, to hold a thematic session, and I hope that the time has come for the Prime Minister to explain to this House what has been done and what is going to be done and how far we have come. That's one of the reasons why he's calling on the Prime Minister to defend his vice president and tell us what's going on. Yesterday, the prime minister showed that when he had to have determination. She was a government meeting where there was not a single minister who could have stayed behind and sent a secretary of state instead. And it was still obviously that picture in everyone's head when the very casual prime minister told his secretary to write me a solution. No one dared try it yesterday, so it was a unanimous decision, which makes me personally happy and I think it's good. So the prime minister has shown that he can decide, the prime minister has shown that he knows at certain times to say enough is enough to do. And now we also expect this same prime minister to say what's going on with Agrokora, where we've come from, and where is this other Agrokor going to end? When the lights turn off those that last turn off the light will create a great burden for the RS budget and what is the other Agrokor that we do, the other Agrokor that we create and what are the consequences of everything that's been going on so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66968	We are going to the fifth debate, dear colleague Zeljko Glasnović, A Club of Independents for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66969	Dear colleagues. There's one saying German says, "Better end of terror than terror without end," it can refer to a bad relationship, when you live in tyranny then a coup that's the end of terror, that's what we've been doing here in the 1990s. And what about the finished and blocked? How are they spent every morning, under what terror? I've been looking at some accounts, for example. where you have an account of 25 kuna KBC Rebro and today is the account of 940 kuna, the second account 120 kuna to 1600 kuna, how will this new law be resolved? It's a strategic issue of the Republic of Croatia. We have 320 thousand blocked, tens of billions of kuna debt. How do you solve that? Not even Cosa Nostra does that. We have 50% of public sector employees and they just feed that food chain parasiticly where they're here, for example. Notaries, public notebooks and lawyers, that's not where new values are produced. These people are totally cut off from economic social development, and it has to be solved as quickly as possible. I mentioned earlier some countries have foundations where they give free advice to people who are in debt. If we have so many clerks it could be done long ago to help these people, how... these debts, reprogramme those debts. We're still statued. He wants to settle the new law? I doubt it. What does common sense say? Solve that real debt and blow these parasites away. What's the state doing? And the state has a debt, 88.3% of GDP. But they have other countries, they have twice the external government debt, but what do other countries have? They have a stable police and economic policy, a stable fiscal policy. They have central banks that are credible and stable. We could be a quiet port for investment in this part of Europe, a quiet port. And where are we now? We could be an EU anchor for investment... And where are we now? Last year, 1.2 billion euros of investment came here, and the diaspora brought nearly 2 billion GDP here every year. What's going on here? Why haven't we solved the issue of corruption, where the law on the origin of property, the property tax, where pension reform, where the professionalization of public administration is, why haven't we taken care of the public administration of this mastodon? He costs a lot of money doing nothing. And what about those anti-corruption laws? There are some... just one example of what's wrong with the Rijeka Bank? Mr. Crescent. Edo Nodillo where he stole up to $100 million, where's that money? Why doesn't that money go back to Croatia, where he ended up? Did he end up at the Ljubljanska Banka? Why don't we trace the money that was taken from Croatia, and why isn't it pouring into the state budget? As far as Agrokor is concerned, again Agrokor, does the main state auditor know how many state guarantees have been given to the companies that have failed? What about Agrokora, for example, Oil Chepin? Where are your data and why isn't the state working any faster? That's what I told you before I started. "Better an end to terror than terror without end" but the way this is going is terror without end. When are we going to set up the system efficiently and start working?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66970	Thank you. We're going to the sixth debate, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66971	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We hear that a number of our colleagues receive messages that are not only pressure but at the same time some forms of threats due to their beliefs, their attitudes and their commitment as parliamentary representatives. And because they're committed to supporting a civilization document called the Istanbul Convention. The Istanbul Convention is based on such facts, based on a public campaign that can be seen and based on messages from some people in the non-political sphere who are now being threatened with excommunication, not only the issue of achieving women's rights, preventing violence, sanctioning this violence, it is in fact a place to defend the autonomy of social action called politics. And as I do not think that anyone should enter into matters that do not belong to the political sphere, which deals with politics, especially should not enter the private sphere or should not enter into the church sphere, at the same time politics and people acting in public political power, such as parliamentary representatives, should leave, in their conscience, their conviction and their determination to make decisions that should be made here in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. I'm saying this because a number of our colleagues and colleagues think that this thing is just a question of individual club representatives. Well, then I hear some of our colleagues won't be saving this soldier or that soldier, so no one expects anyone to save this soldier or that soldier. Here is the need to save something else, to save some of the fundamental values of this country's Constitution, to save some of the fundamental values that this country has been building together with other countries of Europe and the democratic world for centuries. That's what this is about. And that's why it seems to me that it would be time to realize that it's not a question of people who belong to one political option, but it's a question of all of us sitting in this House. Do we want to preserve the secular world republic? Whether we want to preserve civil liberties, rights or not. Do we want to let us, instead of dealing with all these issues mentioned by colleagues who spoke before me, as well as many others who are waiting for a solution so that this country becomes a decent place to live or we will allow for our low interparty relations so we will say let them do so, and we will sit on the side. Either we're gonna be solid and not tell those, regardless of political beliefs, whether we're satisfied or not, we're not quite happy with what he can write or what he can stand in a statement of one's or the other's. He's defending himself a lot more here. It defends what made this country, as well as many other democratic countries, and that is its freedom and freedom of its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66972	Let's move on. Now it's your turn... Get a colleague of Cjelic, a colleague of Cjelic [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Cellic, what is it? [[/Intruder Cell: Shame on you. Is this a democracy?]] What kind of behavior is that? ... My colleague, I beg you, we are in Parliament, we are discussing, if you have anything to say outside the Assembly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's order here and we stick to that order so we can work at all. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, here's my colleague Bulj. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66973	The Honorable Chairman. The breach of Rules of Procedure in 238, and I agree with my colleague, Pupovac, that it is not good pressure, but it is not good pressure for HDZs who are threatened by excommunication unless they follow Pope Andrej.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66974	.../Intruder President, colleague Bulj, where is the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Comrade Bulj, where's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? I give you my warning, this has been an abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injury. Here is a colleague of the Grmoi on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66975	I'd like to ask you to calm down a little tension in the Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have come to the end of the seventh session of the Croatian Parliament and it is time to recapture what we have dealt with as representatives, as well as what we have not done while we have wasted energy and time in vain discussions on Ustashas and Partizans and similar ephemeralities. So let's start with what we didn't do because you didn't let us, because you're the only one who created the agenda. You didn't let us deal with anything that matters to find the citizens, you didn't give us the opportunity to deal with problems that were done and blocked. Of the reforms that are obviously not implemented, the ruling people tried to frame us for those cosmetic changes in the judiciary. As for our entrepreneurs, exporters and others who create value in our Croatia, we have done nothing for them. Not to mention reforming the state and public administration, we also missed another opportunity to open a serious debate on our electoral system. I remind you, MOST's Proposal to amend the electoral law introducing 3 preferential votes into our electoral system has been on the Parliament's agenda for a full year. We in MOST have also proposed a declaration of an exclusive economic belt and expect this issue to be discussed as quickly as possible and to make a decision. It's a question of the Croatian future. We are also offering a solution to the real reform of the judiciary that will be complete and that will finally eradicate the syncopes that have multiplied in our judiciary. We have offered to amend the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering in order to publish a register of real owners of companies that will contribute to the prevention and detection of organised crime and conflicts of interest. We'll offer more of that. We will offer a law on microsolars aimed at creating news in people that they can be energy independent but also eradicate energy poverty. We'll offer the heat bill next week to finally solve the problem of these divisors, but one divisor is Mr. Division, we can't solve at all. We have presented projects that need to make public administration efficient and efficient, which works for citizens. Finally, in the public administration, we need to calculate ourselves with earrings and separate those who work, so those who do not work from those who do their job fairly. We will also offer measures to relieve entrepreneurs of bureaucratic and other obstacles. Entrepreneurs are the value of our society that we especially must cherish. And what are we doing all the time? We're dealing with Plenkovic's and Macan's spins. When an affair of advisory fees broke down in Agrokor, we started to deal with Ustashas and partisans, or recommendations from the Council for the past, and when the opposition questioned the responsibility of Minister Dalic, Plenkovic and Macan, they occupied the entire public with one single question, ratification of an international document that would convince us overnight to address the problem of violence against women. Gentlemen, Croatia is dying out. And what do we do? GDP slows down drastically, and there is a final act of drama that depends on the future of our economy. At the same time, we have a demographic breakdown, and who is the only one who offers demographic measures to praise and our famous demographics? The opposition political option with 14 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We'll deal with real problems through our residue movement platform, we won't waste time on these infertile debates. Why? Because our Croatia is worth fighting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66976	We are going to the last debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66977	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I had the intention to conclude that by amending the Rules of Procedure that is before us these breaks that we do not contribute to any parliamentary representatives, to remove forever from the parliamentary debate and to continue to do exactly as citizens expect us to do. But I will be free to make two remarks, which is to ask my colleague, Pejo Grbin, who is the real SDP, truly? The one who today, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, calls the president because he calls on the president of the Russian Federation of Vladimir Putin in Croatia, because of what he says, the Russian Federation's policies or the SDP from 13 days ago when, at its convention, he greets Anwar Azimov, the Ambassador of the Russian Federation and thus shows what SDP thinks of the Russian Federation's policy. But what I would just like to say and what I was saying yesterday, that in the past year or several months of the work of this Assembly, the Croatian Parliament has passed a series of laws that help Croatian citizens and how we think that the Croatian Parliament has fulfilled its obligation. So he would remind his colleagues that a minimum wage law has been passed that has increased the minimum wage in the past year on two occasions. That we have passed a law that increases maternity and parental benefits by 50%, that we have passed a Law on the financing of units of local self-government, which decentralises over a billion kuna by law to units of local and regional self-government, thereby contributing to the work of units of local self-government. If the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on OPGs were passed, thus decentralising the role of the state again, the way in which units of local self-government are allowed to manage land that is state-owned, that we have adopted the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, that we have passed the Investment Encouragement Act which we promote, then we encourage investments in the Republic of Croatia in order to clearly enable new employment and GDP growth through investments. We have brought in a budget that once again determines the significant economic growth of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time testify that last year's budget has been the first time we have experienced a surplus of the general government which has not been the case until now and which is then recognised by the international financial agencies through the definition of the rating of the Republic of Croatia. We have passed a series of laws that strengthen the position and units of local self-government that define the conduct of the Republic of Croatia, we have passed the Law on Defence, the Law on National Security, we have passed a law on bankruptcy in which we are speeding up the bankruptcy procedure, so a series of measures that went towards the units of local self-government, according to the owners and then clearly all together contributes to the better position of all Croatian citizens. Therefore, even after this 7th session, which we are concluding today, we can say that the Croatian Parliament has fulfilled the obligation that is expected of the Croatian Parliament, which is that by its work it brings improvement to all citizens and thereby the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66978	This is what we came to the end of the debate after the break. And now we're going to go to the vote, please all MPs and deputies to take their seats. Here you go, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66979	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask the president to allow me a minute just because I have no other way to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66980	No, you can't get anything, it's past the Rules of Procedure, there's no form in which you're one minute asking to say something. Don't be angry, but it's not in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66981	I'm sorry I can't work in the interest of the citizens, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-23-0.u66982	Okay, I'm sorry, but it's not in the Rules of Procedure. We're going to the vote.
