ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66641	Good morning, everyone. There's more or less of us than when we split up on Friday, but we already have three MPs looking for a word, I guess, for a break. The first was Mr. Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66642	Dear colleagues, I demand a ten-minute break to discuss the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66643	Thank you very much. Let me ask you right now, are you ready right now or do you have to get ready? You're ready now. Let's see what's going on now. The other one was Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66644	Thank you very much. We are looking for a break on the general political situation in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66645	Thank you very much. Are you ready to talk about the situation right now? Thank you very much. And the third Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66646	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Please pause on behalf of the Most Independent Lists regarding the economic political situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66647	Also right now or do you have to get ready? I'll be right there. Here you go, Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66648	Dear colleagues. Again today, the topic of the Istanbul Convention, gender ideology, has been opened. We have seen in Croatia all governments selectively take over directives from the EU. Why do I say it selectively? For example. Those provisions of 1481 for the condemnation of communist crimes, we have now seen what has happened to this Council for dealing with the past as it has been, 1096 for the ban on the directive, the ban on communist traits and other features. Who remembers Lex Perkovic? 8% of people in Croatia don't know what lex Perkovic is, they still don't know that we're out and we're still living up to some level in a Colombian communist Caliphate that's taboo topic today. And what's going on? Those heirs of the system, heirs and others of the former system today found new ideology, gender ideology, replaced Marxism, titoism, this self-government anarchy of gender ideology. Speaking of the Istanbul Convention, the Minister of Justice already knows this, he mentioned in an interview that all 48 mechanisms protecting women and children are already in the Croatian judiciary, are set up... written in our legislation. You have experts who have looked at this, this convention, you have an expert in administrative law, Dr. Dubravka Ljubic, who noticed that we were being imposed through this convention by gender ideology. Secondly, it is in total contrast to the Croatian Constitution. You have 18 EU countries that have not signed, ratified that convention, e.g. Bulgaria's 85 university professors and nearly two thousand teachers and all religious communities have written a petition against the convention. What's behind that convention? I'm just going to quote a quote here that a journalist mentioned in Canada where this gender ideology is being imposed, this said, "The goal of this gender ideology and to break the reality of two sexes and impose a terrifying vision of a world where neither man nor woman exists, that is the ultimate goal of this gender ideology." In Canada, act C16 has passed, which has now been recognized, I think at least 19 generations, and this terrifying tyranny has begun with that act in Canada, this political engineering, and it will soon come here. By this act whoever opposes this ideology speaks against it is open to criminal persecution. That means we're being forced into a new total ideology. You have an example. What are native neutral toilets, what does that mean? Soon we'll need six toilets here in Parliament, one for a man trapped in a man's body, women, etc. in a male body vice versa. You have already recorded in America about 200 attacks have been recorded against girls and women in such toilets, where a man who feels like a woman goes to the bathroom and what we do know, reads perversion. I would say we don't need to impose countries that have legalized pedophilia, zoophilia, actually the pedophile party is legal in the Netherlands, in some countries zoophylia is legal, in some coprophagia. In some countries, the highest prizes are given to and abortionists who are state-run merit winners, abortionists who have abortions of tens of thousands of children. We don't need role models like that. And we need to shape our destiny and see countries that aren't... The EU has no global movement, no globalism, no Mr Soros and its companies here in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66649	Mr. General, thank you. And MP 20 seconds early, but you've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so we'll continue the conversation, I'm afraid. The first is Mr. Marase, not the first has Mr. Glavasevic, right, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Glasovic injured article 238, which says among other things that the representative must not deviate from the rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament. As far as I know, one of the rules of conduct in the Assembly is that we should respect the Republic of Croatia's constitution. As far as I know, the Republic of Croatia is a democratic state, it is not a Caliphate, and that phrase Mr. Glasnović persistently repeats is simply offensive. Second, except it's untrue. Secondly, everything Mr. Glasovic said is now in continuance with his breaks in which he constantly insults minorities, sexual minorities, national minorities. He's talking about things that really have nothing to do with the truth. There's no obligation in the Rules of Procedure to tell the truth, but this was terrifying, Mr. Vice President. And I think it's about time Mr. Glasnovic got his notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66651	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Glasnović injured Article 238. I'll just expand this introductory explanation by my colleague Glavasevic And I have to admit that the least I'm concerned about is what you as a representative of the national minorities are presidening and not reacting to these frightening comparisons, to a resolution adopted by the Council of Europe that speaks of freedoms and which speaks of foundations, I would say to our society that people can freely express and live their views, to say that they feel that no one is holding them back and that at least compares them with the most terrible crimes we've ever heard from this speaker. [[No, no replica Mr. Glasnović.]] So someone must already tell Mr. Glasnović that this is not allowed in the Croatian Parliament. So it's not allowed to compare the most criminal crimes with human freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66653	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66654	So what did I say isn't true here, I'd say?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66655	Just a little bit I haven't given you the word Mr. Glasnovic yet. And you gave the line, how much did I see? Replica, there's no replica here,... Oh, good, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'd be surprised if you hadn't dragged the minorities into the whole story. We're used to it. Anyone that's in power we're used to that kind of thing. And when you're in power and you're in power. Let's go now. All right, next break, Mr. Maras, you have a chance to relocate now. Here, with me, of course. We have one violation of Mr. Glavasevic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66656	Well, I think there's a theoretically injured article in 220, and I think it's the one that's talking about having a session. Or it's 232. But you didn't say if there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66657	Who? Do you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66658	Was there a breach of the Rules of Procedure or not? You didn't find out, there were two injuries after which you didn't say whether or not you did or didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I mean, as I'd like to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66659	As I would say, that was one of the opinions that I personally thought was a violation of the Rules of Procedure because here it says everything but everything that I agree with but I'm not here to hurt the Rules of Procedure who, MPs who express their opinion, even if I don't agree with that opinion at all. I disagreed with not one word from Mr. Glasnovic, but if I had to react every time anyone here hurt the Rules of Procedure, I would just do it. So it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was, but I'm not giving a warning because I'm not giving it because you have the right to speak now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66660	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Then we should not be surprised when Mr. Glasnović performs this way every morning if the chairman, regardless of whether he was from minorities, most of them and anyone else, allows gender equality to be equaled with criminal and the ugliest possible, then we do not have to wonder what our citizens, fellow citizens, listen to every day. And I would ask the media people to turn to Mr Furia Radin when next time Glasovic has his own exposés here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66661	Don't pollemize with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66662	Thank you very much. But this is where we wanted...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66663	Wait a minute, when I'm talking, you have to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66664	Can you stop time?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66665	When I say you have to stop. Yeah, stop the time. When I'm talking, don't pollemize with me, Mr. Maras, not because I'm me, when I get back to the clubs, I want you to pollute with me as much as you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66666	This is not polymizing with you, it's fighting to stop this in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66667	Once again, I'm telling you, don't pollemize with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66668	Thank you very much. We've been looking for a break here for one thing that bothers our fellow citizens. And after hearing on Friday that Croatia is a country where there are no reforms, the European Commission has made that very clear. This majority, this government does not carry out anything in Croatia except to put out fires, but most often it puts out fuel, gasoline and then these fires are even bigger. Despite all reforms to be made in Croatia, the Croatian government has come out bombically with pension reform. It means a message to that part of our society that is the hardest to live, which has the biggest problems, the older people or those directly before retirement, that they will break all reforms in the Republic of Croatia. Because there is no reform in health care, because there is no reform in demographic terms, in regional, in economic, tax, but there will be major reforms in the pension system. So our fellow citizens from 2033 will work 2 years longer, the pension of early retirement for those who can no longer work objectively because of their health problems will be increased, i.e. the benefited occupations that have, for example, existed so far, that people who do jobs that you can't do at 55, 60, 65 will no longer have the right, the benefited job experience will have to retire when and everyone else at 67 years of age. Translated, this government wants to send a message to the citizens, you'll be able to go directly to the cemetery from work. It is a message sent by Andrej Plenkovic, which is a message sent by HDZ and all those who support Andrej Plenkovic and this majority in the Croatian Parliament. So I'm calling you ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66669	Mr. Maras, you have a warning. It's the first warning, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66670	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66671	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66672	For what? Why did you give me a warning? [[Intruder Radin: Let's move on.]] Well, I don't know why you're ashamed to imitate people who don't want the Istanbul Convention in Croatia, I really don't understand. [[Intruder Radin: Due to non-verbal behavior, go ahead, it's the first warning.]] It's been two years since the SDP left power, Mr Furio. [[/Intruder Radin: Here you go, you haven't ratified the Istanbul Convention for 2.5 years.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66673	You haven't had a theme of the Istanbul Convention that I've supported from the very beginning, you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66674	I see you don't quite agree... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: You did not, you did not support the Istanbul Convention, let's move on.]] And now give your warning to yourself. So, instead of starting reforms in Croatia, in health care, that our pensioners, older people, don't pay more contributions than they pay this month, to start regional reform or decentralisation of Croatia, to reduce the number of counties, which is why we have 20 counties, we have because HDZ has more mayors. It does not bother them, it is not a problem, 20 counties, health reform, Kujundzic said a month ago that he would solve the problem of unhappy people who are struggling with their children, here they were in the Croatian Parliament and that he would allow them to co-finance their medicine, did nothing but open a jury account and asked citizens who paid taxes anyway. So nothing these guys do, Plenkovic and those who support him, do nothing...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66675	You have a second warning, Mr. Maras, you can leave, I told you not to pollemize with me, you can leave the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66676	What is this, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66677	You have a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66678	What's this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66679	You have a second warning, you can't polarize with me in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66680	For what? I'm not having sex with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66681	Yeah, you're semi-committing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66682	What did I do? Tell the Bucharest to Mr Fury what I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66683	You're polarizing with me. Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66684	I won't move because I don't want to put up with the violence here. Tell me what I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66685	Mr. Maras, Mr. Maras, please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66686	Tell me what I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66687	Please leave the pay phone. I told you not to pollute with me because it's against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66688	No, I'm not plimising with you, I'm not pliming at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66689	Yes, you're semi-limizing, you're semi-committing, you're not aware or you're semi-committing, you're choosing to leave the pay phone. The third is Mr. Panenic. Here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66690	No, I'm not going anywhere. Tell me what I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66691	You're polarizing with me, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66692	Don't come because I won't move, Tomislav. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66693	All right, I'll take a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66694	Unbelievable. It's 9:50 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66695	[[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING AT 09.53 HOURS]] We're moving on. Mr. Maras, I'm not going to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now I'm going to explain why. Not one, not only this one, but no parliament for the world allows you to speak non-verbally, such as yourself or verbally to address the chairman as you speak. And yes, in fact, you're polymizing with him. It is against all the rules of parliamentaryism, and I will tell you more. It's against good taste. That's why I gave you two warnings. You have no right to speak now until the agenda points begin. Then you'll have the right to speak. And now I give my word to Mr Panenic to speak on behalf of the MOST Club, and you can continue whatever you want. On your cartoon. [[Look, sir, I'm not going to continue anything, just...]] Here you go. You had no right to speak. [[All right, all right. You can insult me here, but Mr. Vice President, you cannot abuse the conduct of the session and your position.]] Thank you. You don't have the right to pollemize with the chairman. [[/Intruder Maras: you didn't even call in the article I hurt. You were distracted by me saying you support Plenkovic. So what's the problem?]] Please, Mr. Panenic. [[/Intruder Maras: What's the problem?]] Please, please, please. [[/Intruder Maras: it is the most normal political communication. What a shame to support Plenkovic, which he's in.]] Don't make yourself [[/Intruder Maras: Why did you take my word? Because I said you support Plenkovic.]] Look, you're trying all the time to go [[So look, but Mr Furio. I ask you for minority service in Croatia, react when Glasnović speaks here/]] You've been trying to figure out how to kick you out all the time. ... [[Intruder Maras: You didn't mind when Glasovic evened the Istanbul Convention with Crime.]] I love you and I'll keep you inside while I'm inside you'll be inside and you'll be inside. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Mr. Panenic, please. [[You don't have anything to hold me, so this isn't your Parliament. This is a meeting of Croatian citizens, you have nothing to hold me.]] Here you go. Mr. Pupovac asked for a break and asked for a word. [[I beg you, Mr Furio, for your...]] Here you go. Because he might be looking for a break. [[Intruder Maras: And why can he get the word?]] Let's see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66696	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I request a 10-minute recess.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66697	Thank you very much. But we'll be done before the break, before this break is over. Before this break, we'll finish and then we'll have a new break. Here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66698	Sir can the Club of Representatives also... No, but the same about this. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66699	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, to discuss the level of communication in the Croatian Parliament and the quality of the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66700	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66701	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, a little bit now, of course, that the topic that you're talking about this context seems to be losing to importance and this should be a key topic. After last week's announcement, early last week, around GDP, the decline in GDP when we spoke, at the end of the week we were welcomed by new news, which is that industrial production has fallen and that third month in a row, for the first time since 2013. I think it should be a theme for polemics and for, and if there's a need for bickering and if there's a need for chatter, but let's talk about something that can help our citizens. This data, I didn't write, it wasn't written by someone here, it was written by the State Statistics Institute, and they're just saying that, and they were saying when industrial production grew, when 2016 grew by 14.9%, which was the biggest increase since 2001. So they have moments, when we have to say, we're in the right direction, on the right path, on the right direction and on the right path, and we should also say when we're not on the right path. It's definitely that this data can't be said to be good, because if it were good, I wouldn't have the need to speak here today. What's going down? The production of capital products is dropping, which is actually the basis of what we all want, if it were happening with us. So that we may not only be critical within us, so we may compare to our previous periods, which may have been measured in one way or another or not, when we look back at the same countries, which we mentioned last week, Romania and Slovenia. In the EU, it is the two countries that are the most growing. Romania has grown at a monthly level 3 8 Slovenia 2 7 at the annual level of Romania 13.5 Slovenia 12 2 and then we really need to ask ourselves, why does the President of the Parliament say if we present such data that we are blubbering. I believe that the information that we provide, which is the official data, that behind it is an institution and if something is incorrect, then you should ask the State Statistics Office. In the end, this data is also official data published by the EU, and yet we cannot say that it is chatter. And then we wonder how this will help us, unfortunately, if at the level of Croatia falls, all indicators of industrial production, where in my Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, about which a lot of talk about the project, where it is least expressed, how will it reflect there? How will it be reflected in the Dalmatian Zagora? How is it going to reflect in Lica, somewhere else, where it's definitely the weakest result of industrial production? But not to say it's all so bad, there's good news, this morning the news, that our prime minister Plenkovic, will appear to be a bar candidate, candidate for head of the European Commission. Is something going to change that? This way he's unhappy with his crew in the government, we see him making them work more. They object again that they want to control everything. He's unhappy because the results of his government's work don't show up, we have negative indicators. And we're also unhappy, which is how it happens. And I think that's why it's right to say that we will support his candidacy, to be the head of the European Commission. He will be better at that moment, I hope that he will then start, only I do not know about the EU, what will happen to it. I hope we don't have such negative indicators at EU level, then they'll ask us again, how come we're the only ones who support his candidacy. We really have one question, but the data speaks for itself, data from the State Statistics Institute, data from the number of buses, data from people who don't believe they can live here anymore, start their families and look forward to the future. This is the subject, everything else in my opinion is controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66702	Thank you, Mr. Panenic. Now, I'm supposed to start the debate, but quite unusually, two MPs and I gave them my word they asked for a break. I ask them to speak without delay, so that on a very important topic we can go to a very short time because today, the OPG is a very large number of people on the agenda and we respect that. The first one asked for a break, but I'm gonna ask him if he can use that break right now, Mr. Pupovac, can you? Can you talk right now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66704	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I agree that it is irrational to waste time on breaks because there are people in the hall who practice the rhetoric of verbal violence against their colleagues and colleagues continuously. But I think it's time to say enough. If there are no serious arguments, if there is no adequate culture of communication of the political then resisting the finger, polymizing with the chairman, non-balming means, attempt to humiliate other MPs as individuals in this House have repeatedly, of course reminds us of some infamous and shameful time of debate in the Croatian Parliament as we had in the 1990s. It is still necessary to start flying individual items from the bench to those who speak or to those who chair these sessions. So the culture of verbal violence and the humiliation of other people in this House should stop. And if it were different, we certainly wouldn't be discussing the injuries, we wouldn't be discussing the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And to you, Mr. Vice President, I would like to express my support for the way you conduct the session. So if we had held these sessions like this eight months ago and all eight months ago today, we wouldn't be spending time on changing our Rules of Procedure not particularly inventive and not particularly productively contributing to these discussions, we wouldn't be wasting our time at our disposal, we'd be discussing laws and we wouldn't be discussing laws. We're breaking up, we're discussing based on what we hear in the birties, we're discussing what we hear in the hall towers, we're discussing based on what we read on portals and forums, and possibly on what we see in the media, newspapers, etc. It's not any serious parliamentary debate. A serious parliamentary debate means dealing with the situation of family farms in a serious way. By discussing the details, every detail of the law including the decimal if necessary. But what we are doing and what has been imposed by a few colleagues in this House is absolutely against parliamentaryism and that is why you have our support. And if someone continues with this kind of verbal violence against you or anyone else, we will find ways to respond in the most civilized way possible. We've tried that so far on several occasions, so it didn't work out. But if someone can't contain their aggression, they can continue the practice of harassing other people here and insulting their political decisions and political views, let them keep it somewhere else. We can all show that, and we national minority representatives can talk about anything we don't normally talk about in the interest of peace and tolerance, and we could talk about it. We have both what and why. And how who and when he was acting. And now he gives himself the right to verbally and otherwise harass the people who sit here in this House and try to help this House do what its constitutional role is for the country and for the people, not to be a disgrace. So, Mr. Vice President, no matter what someone tries to call the Rules of Procedure, freedom of speech, I don't know what else. You're here because you're in charge of the agenda. You are here because you are in charge of the Rules of Procedure, you are here to give and subtract a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the rules that should be laid down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66705	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. [[Attack Pupovac: How you, so everyone else who comes behind you.]] Time's up. I'd like representatives who are now one violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you of course when Mr. Bull. I would you, I can't interrupt you if you do, if you stick to the Rules of Procedure. However, I would ask all MPs not to even pollemise with me or with my colleagues while we are here, because it is not Furio Radin, Mr Brkic, Mr Jandrokovic etc. It's just the chairman and we can't be plimized in a verbal or non-verbal way. And don't even praise us because we can handle the situation ourselves and otherwise I'm giving my word to Mr. Bull who was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66706	Thank you very much, President. I would like to agree with you fellow Pupovac that there should be tolerance, however, Article 238 of the injury. Item 4 where he spoke, where he also insulted his colleague Pupovac, means MPs. In fact, you first said that MPs should treat their colleagues tolerantly, and we agree. However, the debates are sometimes as they are and of course in that kind of intense debate that the tribals would be even desirable, that they should be ok. But you insulted the MPs because you said that sometimes they speak in your view as if they were in the bar, so you're the same part of the MPs regardless of who you refer to in the same way, and you even threatened to find the possibility of doing business to forbid these people from speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66707	Mr. Bull time, time, time. If anyone says that finding within the Rules of Procedure will not have offended the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, Mr. Bull. You took advantage of your opportunity to speak, but you will agree with me if someone is looking for a way to answer a question in the Rules of Procedure that offends no one. And now we have a far more important thing than all of it, I have not forgotten you, so that I may forget you, but rather, you can come slowly here, but while you are coming, I will welcome the students and students of OS Vladimir Becic from Osijek who are here with us and who share this morning here with us in Zagreb and of course their teachers and teachers. Here you go, Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66708	.../The speaker speaks Italian./... My colleagues and colleagues. This morning is a very good example of a situation that simply got out of hand, and in politics and political communication, the form and content of communication are equally important. For the form of communication is in this High House we have a Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure determines how we can communicate, what we can do when we consider our rights here to be injured and how order is maintained. Also another thing is the content of what is said. It seems to me that what happened this morning, or what happened in the last half hour, is a very good example of a situation where the form became more important than the content, and in fact it shouldn't be. Namely, the form is to ensure that we all hear and talk about the content or the subject. What happened just before this conflict, which I am extremely sorry happened, was one silence and ignoring of the scandalous content that my colleague Glasovic said here. So I can understand that a colleague, that the Vice-President of the Parliament, felt hurt by the way my colleague Maras communicated, can also understand that my colleague Maras was gunned down by the situation or the things he heard here at the pay phone from Mr. Glasovic. My colleagues and colleagues, most of you here have not responded to the things you've heard. I'd ask the question, is it worse what my colleague Maras did why And that's exactly the point. [[Sir... don't, keep going but don't talk to me because I can't really answer you. I'm here for the form long before the content. /]] So we reacted to form and we were gunned down by a form injury, and we were silent about the content injury. For you colleagues and colleagues, most of you here were okay to keep quiet the things you heard, which Mr. Glasnović said here, it is fine for you to discuss the document which is a big and important topic in the Croatian public Mr. Glasnović told lies, lies for this speaker. So there are many concerns about this document, there are many fears, and instead of this pay phone being used to ease these fears with our citizens, so that all the lies that have been told about it, and many lies have been told to demystify themselves and to expose the truth. So Mr. Glasnovic abused it and said a number of insults to a number of our citizens who fall into minority ranks. That didn't scandal anyone here, almost no one, sorry colleague Maras was scandalized, I was scandalized and a few more of us here. This did not cause angry breaks or requests for a break and to talk about it. And you know why? Because, apart from Article 238, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament do not allow or foresee the possibility of abuse of this parliamentary pay phone to be warned. I'm sorry, but I think it's an incomparably bigger problem. These situations that we saw earlier between colleagues Radin and colleagues Marasa will be resolved by one hand and coffee after and peace, peace, peace, peace, no one's fault, it's something that happens in a political debate. It's not nice, it lowers the level and very low the quality of political communication and our citizens, I assure you, have seen this situation with contempt this morning, with contempt. But with an even greater contempt for their colleague and colleagues, they looked at our silence in making sure and not reacting to what his colleague Glasovic did this morning, what his colleague Glasovic does almost every morning and won't give up. And you all, we all here have a constitutional duty to fight exactly that, and you look in the mirror when you succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66709	Thank you very much. Just one word because I don't want to get into the controversy. What you call form, it's called procedure actually, and the procedure is the basis of democracy. And I'm here because I'm here, not because of the content. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66710	Dear Vice President. Dear fellow Members, you have violated Article 238. You have demeaned and insulted other MPs or colleagues of Glasnović. Three or four times you said he's lying, he's a liar, he's not here to defend himself, I have to defend him. So you've given yourself the right to tell yourself who's telling the truth and who's lying. And you called us, here we are fighting against what General Glasovic says. Well, I'm about to fight what you're saying and what you're saying about General Glasnović, it's clean... And that's a lie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66711	Here you go, Mr. Glavasevic. Also a breach of the Rules of Procedure, also refer to the article and please turn it off, turn it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66712	I thank Mr. Vice President, Article 238 was injured when counterpart Zekanovic said I was doing something in the manner of communism. I mean, I don't see any reason, if I've called for nationalization of state property, if I've called on that, I don't know that we're after someone, that we're killing someone. I mean, I don't see in any way that in my debate, I touched anything that had anything to do with communism. And I don't know, my frustrations with my colleague Zekanovic can't write a letter to Stier or anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u66713	Look, Mr. Glavasevic, I'm surprised you were hurt by the word Communism. You should have been hurt by the word lie you told each other. I'm not going to give anyone a warning because I'm tolerated, but now I'm going to continue my work and my work is to review the procedure and finally move on to the agenda point, to finally move on to the agenda point that is important to a huge number of people and rural areas. As a notice I'll tell you that today we'll be working without a break by 4:30. And we move on to: - Final proposal of the Family Agricultural Economy Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 213; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. We have Mr Majdak, Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74979	I thank the honourable Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies of Parliament's representative and the gentlemen of the Parliament's representatives. In front of us, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Family Agricultural Economy and this way means on behalf of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Agriculture defines the family holding as a strategically important organisational form of the agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia, important for achieving sustainable development, achieving the principle of general food security, preserving natural agricultural resources, and improving and increasing the competitiveness of agriculture as a whole. Family farms are an organisational form in which 97% of all farmers who are kept in the register of farmers in our country who are not adequately recognised in the existing legislative framework, which speaks in favour of the justification for the adoption of this law. The insufficient visibility of the family holding is also reflected in their representation through the roofing interest organisations of natural and legal persons engaged in agricultural production in our country, which unduly restricts their action and create views of the particular interest of this significant form of organisation of farmers. The OPG Law opens new opportunities to improve the working and business conditions of the OPGs, and this is particularly important for the safety and development of small and young OPGs. This law also lays down the conditions for the conduct of the economic activity of agriculture and related complementary activities carried out within the authorised framework by the organisational form of the OPG, as well as the arrangements and conditions for enrolment in the register of OPGs, responsibilities, rights and obligations of the OPG holders and members of the OPG and the competent authorities in the implementation, application and supervision of this law shall be established. As a natural person, the OPG shall carry out the economic activities of agriculture and its related complementary activities, production and sales of products, i.e. the provision of services with a purpose of obtaining income or profit on the market. OPG holders may assist members of the family household in the performance of all OPG operations and may assist family members who live outside the household without the obligation to have a working relationship. The OPG register shall be established as public official records containing credible and up-to-date, public data on natural persons in the organisational form of the OPG and their resources. Therefore, all public authorities may, depending on their needs, establish cooperation with the implementing body in order to use public register data in a personalised and non-personalised form and use the update of the data for their own purposes. The aim of the adoption of the law is to define the CAP as an accepted and recognizable organisational form of farmers, a natural person who works, the income of carrying out the economic activity of agriculture and related complementary activities and the sale of his own products on the market. The final proposal of the Law provides a different framework for those natural persons engaged in agriculture in production, enterprise and market coverage than those of natural persons engaged in agriculture under their own needs. Finally, this law does not violate the existing legal framework, i.e. it does not prescribe the conditions of the detour, other regulations and the detour of the tax system. However, it opens up assumptions to identify the OPG's problems in business and assumptions for further adjustment of fiscal commitments, the opportunities of the OPGs. It enables us to monitor indicators of the economic size of the CAPs at annual and multi-annual level, and thus also to direct agricultural policies to the needs of the CAPs when adopting a new strategy, programmes and measures. The monitoring of the economic size indicators of the CAPs will allow better use of financial instruments for which the Ministry of Agriculture has established frameworks of assumptions for implementation, together with relevant implementing agencies, investment banks and credit and business banks in terms of the use of investment crafts or guarantees. The final proposal of the OPG Act defines in a much clearer way certain relations that have not been clearly identified in previous regulations by the most recent short supply chains of end-users. The bill provides a framework for the approximation of domestic offers, domestic OPGs to customers, consumers who will recognise the original domestic and traditional quality. The draft final draft law differs from the first reading of the Croatian Assembly for the Proposal for a Law on the OPG. As an expert holder of the final draft law, the agriculture ministry has carried out very extensive preparations with stakeholders and has agreed with other competent authorities with a view to improving the final proposal for a law respecting all constructive objections from the parliamentary committees and proposals from parliamentary representatives made during the first reading. Thus, by respecting the observations of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives in all articles, the titles added and the provisions on performance, pension and health insurance have been discussed and agreed with the relevant ministries and, in order to make the statement clearer, the language and the new technical harmonisation of the provisions has been carried out. Similarly, while respecting the observations of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, the proponent makes it more clear in the final draft of the law that the seat of the OPG is to be laid down in the exercise of a competent inspection the proviso of the notice of non-compliance with the provisions of the law, the criminal provisions are segregated at all levels in order to point out that penalties are only a final tool and do not serve administrative bureaucratic repression at the expense of the OPGs but are pronounced only for a more significant offence and their recurrence. Further provisions relating to the company as a feature of the OPG have been amended and, in the final proposal for a law, it is defined that the OPG has its name and, in all articles, the term OPG has been replaced by the name OPG. The conditions of the OPG holder's rights have been defined so that the right of a natural person to be the holder of the OPG is in no way incompatible with the management or ownership functions of undertakings, and a fully deleted earlier provision which the right has restricted. In the text of the final draft law, the Proposer also builds on a provision that regulates how to better use installed facilities for listed supplementary activities, the OPG may negotiate joint production with other OPGs. In this way, the intention of this law on the retention and direction of the OPGs in entrepreneurship activities is stressed with the promotion of self-employment of family members in order to continue their work in agriculture in areas where they live. It is also intended to enable sustainable management through the process of rounding up production resources and education and professionalisation of production, processing, sales of own products and services of OPGs. In a clearer way, the law regulates who are members of the OPG, which are their rights when they are members of the family household and adds the possibility of retaining the performance of the OPG member to the person who ceases to be in the family household provided that he continues to work on the OPG. An amended provision relating to the solidarity guarantee of the members of the OPG so that the obligations incurred in carrying out the economic activity of agriculture are met only by the holder of the OPG as a whole with their assets and, for better implementation, the determined amounts of resources to be excluded from the implementation in order to ensure adequate care for the animals at the OPG. Therefore, the exercise against the OPG holder cannot be carried out on the part of the agricultural resources necessary to carry out the economic activity of agriculture and are entered in the OPG register and, if that activity is the main source of means of life and in those matters and rights on which it could not be implemented if it did not carry out the economic activities of agriculture or on the real estate in which the OPG holder and the person who is obliged to support it must be carried out when the search is less than 20 000 kuna. Furthermore, the provisions governing the management of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries, rural development in the implementation of the reported changes in the OPG register and the exchange of data with the competent authorities and the articles have been developed in order to clarify or eliminate bureaucratic barriers and excessive administrative procedures. Finally, the development of the OPG Act as an important part of the comprehensive reform of the agricultural policy currently being implemented in Croatia has a positive impact on the numerical state of the newly registered OPGs is the growth of these in the last 6 months. Therefore, in the period of intensive production and communication the provisions of the law with farmers but also those who intend to be, over the last 6 months, there has been an increase in the number of new OPGs by more than 10 000 compared to a negative trend until when a continuous decline in the number of OPGs was recorded. The largest decline to recall the number of registered PAGs was recorded from 31.12.2013 to 31.12.2015 when more than 41 000 OPGs were shut down in just 2 years. The new law will certainly provide a quality basis for their sustainable development and quality of business and thus further visibility as one of the most important forms of self-employment for the sustainability of agriculture as an economic activity in the rural area but also in general agriculture itself as the strategic branch of our country's economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74980	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. We've got a series of replicas. The first line has Mr. Whiteman. There used to be a Bull. There you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74981	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary, first of all, we expected here a minister on such an important Law on the OPGs and the fact that it is a tradition of these OPGs based essentially on family and tradition. However, this law discriminates against foreigners against Croatian citizens and family. Foreigners in Croatia to establish OPGs is enough to have a residence. While Croatian citizens cannot, if they have a place of residence, establish an OPG. Of course, this is the policy sequence of Minister Tolusic and you in the ministry because it can be sold, become owners of the country foreigners, foreign owners, this is the law where we opposed, you did not accept and, of course, you have brought Croatian citizens into an unfavourable position here because they must have a residence until the foreigners have to. It's enough to have a place to stay. I would ask you to answer this very important question with a number of changes because this is a direct blow to the family, to the traditional, family economies, and therefore I expect, and yet again, I oppose why this important law, which is why Minister Tolusic emphasizes, which is why he is not in the Parliament. This is the law, actually, this is bald... The O.P.G.'s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Discriminate Croatian citizens over foreign citizens. Is this a family agricultural holding or to explain to me here right now, that the public hears that our village hears, is really what you have allowed the agricultural land to go to the foreigners in possession, and this you have allowed them to have the OPGs discriminating Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74982	Mr. Whiteman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will ask you one question, offered by experience and offered by what I am asked by the owners of OPGs throughout our Croatia, from Slavonia to Dalmatia, our islands, and also taught by the experience of some foreign countries who have tried more or less to solve a major problem that Croatia pretends does not exist. I'm going to talk about whether, or not, I'm going to ask you if you've been thinking about expanding the lists of activities that the OPGs can deal with and whether you've thought about it, even though it's a public secret that everyone or a large majority of them are doing it illegally, to legalise in the OPGs growing marijuana in order to prevent a black market that is wild in Croatia as much as we pretend it doesn't exist. Wild, not regulated, and let's say in the Czech Republic, in Spain, I won't say the Netherlands, some things have become or become absolutely normal. Of course, I'm talking about personal needs, I'm talking first of all about medical use of marijuana, or Indian hemp, but you should also consider allowing use to relax this incredibly apathic atmosphere that you've just brought us into by ruling. Thank you very much and please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74984	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74985	Dear colleagues. Here, I don't know, someone keeps telling me that we're complaining, that there's no solution to what we're talking about. In the army, every meeting produces action, and we just determine the situation. What are the roots of our problems? A question for you? Why, where did this catastrian chaos begin? There he sat a month ago, Mr. Tolusic, the minister and said we spent 2 million kunas, I think, on digitization, and nothing was done. Now the local self-government, which I understand, is that the local self-government units will share the land. Is that true? For the O.P.G.s. And how are you gonna do that if you haven't solved step one? That's step one, digitization. I don't know if anyone out there can... I haven't heard anywhere except in this country, which is the heir to another system, which can't be talked about, that someone can be copied to other people's land, a particle. It's unimaginable out there. Like other concepts, like illegal construction. I walked, I walked in these areas for special care, what did I see? That's what I used to say, people pull the woods out. What kind of mechanisms you've continued, set up controls and surveillance. Without it, it won't work. We know that the Baltic Republic has withdrawn millions and millions of euros for macro-economic development. How much did you pull to make this here? In the end, has anyone made an assessment of the market? You have these so-called. straw agripalettes, etc. Have you advised these people to invest in money so they don't fail? No one outside will pay if you go bankrupt. And that's unimaginable, that parasitic attitude towards the state. You've got a private company outside, you're going down, it's not going to save you. The state won't come. You've done your agenda, your work assignments, it's gone. Bujrum. And with us, you expect the state to do something. That's not real.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74986	Thank you. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74987	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you see, time flies fast. The law is here, the final bill. I just wanted to introduce you to an amendment you're about to get on the table. In the light of the law, it states that individual forms of farmers, entrepreneurs, can solve their specific problems through certain laws, including the Law on Cooperatives. And that's why you're saying that this Family Agricultural Economy Act is going to solve some specific problems. And now on one side we have O.P.G.s that are de facto and itself some kind of cooperative. Although they are a cooperative of members of the household, households. On the other hand, we have cooperatives that define seven members of the minimum, so they can start. Here I think, it would be very good, I suggested that in art. 5 add a point that defines what an OPG cooperative is. We are not inventing hot water, but we are moving towards models that apply developed EU countries where production, distribution and supply have been shown to have significantly improved and improved levels of innovation and quality and food security. That's what I'd say. 22., added Article 22a, which would define how the OPG cooperative can be established, that it may be two or more OPGs and, of course, the contract would be settled, and in accordance with the Cooperative Act. Because the Cooperative Act is in Art. 57 defines that the agricultural cooperative is of particular importance. I think you could do it with this law. Believe me, at the end of the day I accept yours, I do not accept, but I am glad that you accepted some proposals from the first reading, accept this amendment, because this law will certainly show in practice that there will be a lot of changes around it, because we hope that it will get the result, which is actually the development of the OPG, their competitiveness, their survival, at the end of what it said, chairing the existence of rural space, but not just rural space, we all eat food and ultimately to be what we eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74988	Thank you, Mr. Sagar, Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74989	Thank you, Honorable Chairman of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Majdak, Secretary of State, here, I have listened very carefully and I agree with what we have said that this law is important for agriculture in Croatia. Here, you said it was strategically important for agriculture as a whole. I really don't know why we're going in reverse order, why we didn't make a strategy in agriculture, which then this law will adapt. To be honest, I don't have that many farmers in my environment, but those who are and the OPGs say we literally don't know where we're going. The fact is that Croatian agriculture is in an extremely difficult situation and this law will not change anything drastically. We are one of the few countries in Europe, which has the Law on the OPG. That's a fact. But we see that agriculture outside is really on one envious level, that many countries live on that agriculture, that is, produce enough agricultural products for their own purposes and they do not have the Law on the OPG. This is what concerns me, and you say that this law is part of the reform of agricultural production, politics, I honestly don't see, in which way this OPG law will be part of the agricultural strategy of Croatia that is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74990	Thank you, Mr. Prelec, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am sorry that this law today, which is one of the important laws on agriculture, did not come from Minister Tolusic, I do not know whether it is insignificant to him or not to talk to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but probably he knows the reason. I think he was supposed to be the minister here and talk to us about this very important law. We do not diminish your expertise as a colleague, Majdak, but one thing you would like to point out in this law is not decidedly written, and what was initially spoken, that this is not possible, that at one address two OPGs are registered. We know that the structure of households in the Republic of Croatia, in the Croatian village, was built family houses in which one or more families live, which can have different OPGs even though they are at the same home address. If the son is separated from the household where his father lives with, perhaps another child, he should be able to place his OPG on the same address, which will open normally with other resources needed for production. I'm not saying it doesn't say it can't, but I think we should put a supplement on it that decadently says that at the same home address you can start 2 or maybe even 3 OPGs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74992	Thank you, Mr. Lenart. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74993	Thank you, Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The minister said this morning that Croatia needs this law, to know what an OPG is, who deals with agricultural production and what kind of agricultural production it is. We at HSS and I say that we need this law, we need to know what an OPG is, but we also need to achieve the conditions in the Republic of Croatia, that this OPG can be done by food production. Because the fact is that Croatia does not have enough food production, that the tendency of the decline in production, that agricultural businesses are recording losses in production, that we are growing imports and what is an additional problem and a major problem, that is a large number of blocked OPGs. And it is good that the secretary of state pointed out that since 2013-2015 the number of OPGs has dropped. I dare say that there will be an even bigger fall if this law does not make it possible for the OPG not to be blocked, that they have a growth in production, that they have income growth. That I am this law will not be solved. And my question is, what is planned to be done to help the now blocked OPGs. It's a good thing it's put into law to protect the assets that are necessary for production, for the future, but we also have a large number of OPGs that have been blocked since 2011 and we have a growth of 5% of the blocked OPG and the amount that has been blocked has increased by over 95%. And the largest number of blocked holdings is Osijek Baranja County and then Virovitski podravska, etc. I don't want to pick up other Slavonian counties. Right where we should have food production we have a large number of blocked OPGs and that's why we pushed them through operational investment programs and left them alone on the market. What is this ministry planning to do to protect and help these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74994	Thank you, too. Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74995	I thank the chairman. Secretary of State, unfortunately, I must conclude that you are currently defending yourself with silence. I hope that you will finally expose your answers to all previous replicas. I would also like, when we already have a chance to address you, then you should say, that you have unfortunately missed the opportunity to make this law crucial. You said in your statement that this law would reduce the administration, and you are unfortunately increasing it. For the reason you're introducing a paying agency, which increases the administration. On the other hand, you are making discrimination against people living in Croatia, because under this law, people who are resident in other EU member states have the right to apply for the OPG, Croats living in Croatia, to this they have no right. On the other hand, you have also given a more difficult task to the family farms for conditions in which they can achieve their work space, and you will make it even more difficult for them to have those family farms alive. After that, an additional administration is needed to change names that were not needed so far. I could list a series of things that you've actually increased the administration in this law, and in your presentation, you said you'd reduce the administration. It also remains unclear how other family farms will adapt, because as far as I understand they are not all covered by this law, some kind of ominous assessment is also some limit that family farms enter into this law, which they do not enter. I'd really like to ask the following questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74996	Thank you very much. And now the last of the nine replicas is the only lady and then they say that women are not discriminated against. You're the last one. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74997	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. Obviously, the methodology is that it does not answer questions, i.e. asked questions. But I expect you to maybe unite everything, all nine replicas, so I can get an answer after all. I'm interested in something that you have stated under this law, which is that, says the target group includes those OPGs that have carriers under the age of 56 that need to be directed into entrepreneurial activities. As you are in the context of all the changes that are happening at EU level, where the idea is that at the age of 67 you are actually going to retire and everything else is decided on just those 56 years. Keeping in mind that perhaps working in the OPGs and that the population can really be both quality and at another age, and also that 56 years are very interesting. What about 56? Why isn't it 55 or 57? How did you get to the age of 56 and what was the point of that finding, that it was your target group. It seems to me that the target group should be all those who are willing to work on the OPGs, who are willing to make and at all OPG as an organisational unit to be the bearer and specific development in agriculture in a certain way. So I'm actually really interested in how those, that 56-year-old code age came from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74998	Thank you very much. State Secretary Mr. Majdak will respond to the replicas all at once. But unfortunately, there's only two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u74999	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So like this, [[Shucker: Well can't, can't just two minutes from the place by the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75000	Please don't talk. Please! Please don't, because he's a gentleman. Just hang up a minute, stop the time. Mr. Secretary of State he decided to take five minutes after the first speaker because now he can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This is how the Family Agricultural Economy Act, starting from the last question, defines the last line as 56 years as a single age for one reason why we have measures that encourage young farmers up to 41 years of age. And we've taken into account this age line, so we'd be directing family farms towards professionalization and safer business. And a total of these 164,000 economies in the Republic of Croatia are registered, one third of just this age limit that you agree with is worth investing in. It is precisely this law that allows them to professionalise in their business. As far as further administration in part of the law is concerned, we disagree with the question, i.e. the replica to impose additional administration on this law. Over 20 articles refer to what has not been incorporated anywhere so far in existing laws and the legislative framework towards farmers and family farms. And it was certainly necessary to define this law, and the paying agency was before in the part of the administration of family farms as part of farmers in the Republic of Croatia. 97% of farmers registered in the register, i.e. the farmer's register is registered as, are registered as a family holding is the paying agency since the beginning of the administration means in this part and it is the agency that manages the enrolment. As far as the seat itself is concerned, so the residence is like any business communication, so the place where it was necessary means to define from the title For a while? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75002	We'll give you five minutes later. Wait a minute, everyone decides and you have the right to criticise when you'll get the word after. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, wait, wait a minute. Yeah. We're done with that. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr Tomislav Panenic in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75003	Thank you very much. Here's March today, we're getting the OPG Act on the agenda. We remember in November last year we had our first reading. We can only see how much change there was, we know what it was, then it was a proposal. And I look forward to having through these discussions and the promoter adopted a series of our proposals. But when we look at the initial proposal from this, then we see that it actually means that it wasn't even prepared in a way that was as close as possible to the final one as possible, that it would happen as soon as possible. And this period of time and all the remarks that have been stated that they have been adopted, they say that in the end we may have a law that is not the law of the Proposer, but the law of debate in the Parliament and what is good, but it would be good if they were laws that really bring a significant change. With this law, I, when I read it well, have two changes that I think are good. The first is that members of the family household can help the joint OPG where they are members of the OPG, but that could also have been settled in the Labour Act, so we didn't have to have a new law to regulate this at all. And secondly, regarding the part relating to the performances where the OPGs are protected, this is already indicated in the Implementing Law itself and could also be regulated there with a small supplement. I'm saying this is not because we don't need the OPG law, but that the two most significant settings on which we can say that something advanced could have been regulated by other laws and that the tendency we all have to reduce our legislation, to be as few acts as possible, to make it as easy as possible to track anyone in this way is not being solved, but we are producing a new law that makes us practically unique in the EU. What we expect from this law is that we, therefore, all of you colleagues and colleagues, and especially the OPGs, which is that we have a certain financial impact. And again I can say an impact assessment of what will happen to one standard OPG after this law has been passed that size greater than 3000 SO or less, what will it be? I have an O.P.G. like that, I don't know. I didn't see any financial benefits. So my condition before and after will change as far as the financial part is concerned. Well, I'm lucky I don't have any work to do, so basically, most of it's an O.P.G. And it's not going to change anything with that part. But then I ask you, what's going to happen to those 110000 OPGs that aren't covered by this law, which are less than 3000 SOs, what are we going to do with them? For them, it's all the same, so this doesn't apply? Well, everyone expected that this law would have the protection of the OPG, the protection of the traditional business model in agriculture, is that they wanted these OPGs to be very neatly arranged then they would probably form a craft or some company, simply d.o.o. or d.o.o., the cooperative could eventually. And in this way, one part of the flexibility that has been given to households that have agricultural resources is lost, that they can quickly, simply, without a lot of administrative burdens begin to produce and generate income in agriculture and that this does not require them to work towards administration. After this law comes the next, and this is the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. It will be defined ok if the OPG pays its membership fee and slowly those benefits that have been since the beginning of the OPG, they disappear, they are lost. But we have a law in front of us as it is, we have made a lot of remarks through public debates and through debate in the Assembly, a part of it accepted, but here I also have a list of 9 of our amendments to the bridge club of independent lists on which, here I ask the promoter that, in the context of this proposal, which we generally have the view that it is insufficient, that it does not bring... and that we consider and remove the last obstacles that we can look into our agricultural economies and say you have a law that will not burden you. That's what we can say. I don't know how much it's gonna help you if it's not standing in there, we don't know what should be an advantage in some future time. I'll go through some of the conclusions we discussed as a club. It is already mentioned here that a Croatian citizen at the residence cannot report an OPG, a stranger can. So he doesn't have to have a place to live, and that's clear, I personally think it's discrimination. So he's in Poland, for example. It's defined as having to have a place to live. Secondly, we have a need to prove the right to use space. After the aggression committed on the Republic of Croatia by a number of persons who have disappeared in this aggression, what are we going to tell families who are engaged in agricultural activities in areas owned by a missing person, this person is not declared dead, how are we going to ensure that these people have proof of the right to use? In order to provide evidence of the right of use for an area for which courts or courts do not act, they could not have entered their property under the Law of Inheritance, who would give them proof of use. Furthermore, we all know the situation of agricultural economies, they carry out activities in the areas where they live, where they did not need a number of consent especially to technical installations. We are not looking for agricultural activity nor are they intended to have any specific conditions, however it is clear that they must take care of technical regularity, when the inspector comes to take care of technical regularity, means that there is evidence of the correctness of electrical installations, that he is carrying out noise protection measures, that he has evidence of water and sewerage installation, evidence of the inability of the collection pit, I do not think most of them have. And most of those O.P.G.s behind whom the name and last name of people stand, they're actually the best guarantee. And not now we're going to add a special name to them and what I'm here for multiple times multiple times asked to define clearly what that special name means. Of course we want no one to deny any form of name he wants. Mandatory elements should be name, last name, seat. The name doesn't have to be a mandatory element, so let's be academic who wants to be put in, and with that, actually some OPGs won't have significant changes in their business. I would also like to ask the Proposer to consider defining a member of the OPG. Why a member who is a minor must be a business man. What about our citizens who have a number of problems where they have reduced their business ability or are even banned from court? Because they have to be exceptional, can't they function within the agricultural economy where one of their family members is the bearer? So didn't we start a rehabilitation administratively on it through work, through connection, through contributions to where they recognize themselves. And okay, it can be a carrier, let it be businessable, and if each member has to be a fully capable person. Furthermore, records of production, sale of own agricultural products and records of services provided. Why the OPGs have to deliver, why the crafts don't have to deliver to the ministry and the agency. Why doesn't the company have to deliver to the Ministry and the Agency? In my opinion, it's one business discrimination. And I don't see why the Ministry has to become a new statistical office. This imposes new administrative barriers. Okay, here's my colleagues from HSS, about family members, about the number of O.P.G.s. It is clear here that, it says, only one OPG member of the household can be established. But what still stands, and those funds that make, earn, stand, spend together. How will you prove that someone spends something together or does not spend it? With this you built a fence so anyone can say we don't spend our resources together. We'll have 10 OPGs. Rural development measures and encourage the creation of new ones, that young people have, that they have their own OPG, that they can apply for measures and that you use these resources. That's where we made the mistake of actually the way we defined it through measures. But with this to come to me, to any O.P.G. carrier and say why you have two, I'll tell you, we don't spend together and you'll prove how. Here, why don't you explain to me how it's gonna prove? In the end, we asked, and that is exactly what the Proposer said, and he accepted that there must also be a measure relating to the reminder. It has already become civilized so as not to be the first measure infringing, financial punishment. And thank you for accepting. But it itself brings up fines that are defined, whether or not the name of the OPG is highlighted, that you can sanction someone up to 15 thousand kunas. How much is this board worth, how much is it worth, how much is it set worth? We've lost little of that reality to the value of that part that hasn't been done, how much it is. Is that negligence worth 200, 300 kuna, if it's worth 14 thousand and 700, 800 kuna? Or if the accidental change of a member of the OPG that can be more or less, the change is not done in the family in due time, are we going to punish them with a possible 15 thousand kuna? Or if, by chance, he forgot a machine, didn't sign it up, and it's a production resource that's not listed, we're going to punish him with 15 thousand kuna? And that's where our amendment is, and we're still going on that smaller, lower sentence that you've provided for some violations, so I'm going to beg here to try to even it out and really be minimal because this is at the people's level of encouraging them to try to answer the bill, the new law where the adjustments, where they're going to be 160 thousand potential somewhere around 50, 60 that are going to be entered. So what are you gonna do with the inspections when they start? You know how much work that is, how much punishment it will be. Are we going to fill our budgets with fines? And in the end, I'd say, you've defined financial resources that won't be necessary. Here's a colleague Petrov has already mentioned, just to accept the OPG reports every year on products and services, how many people will need, which will need administrations and what will you do with 50, 60 reports? You want to control them? How do you control it all together? Who's gonna do it, the same people? So the agency has a problem now that the application requirements for rural development measures need to be addressed, and should be additionally burdened. I would certainly direct you to consider our two amendments to Articles 48 and 49 concerning the warning procedure because there are little discrepancies with the General Administrative Procedure Act, so consider them carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75004	Thank you very much, Mr. Panenic. Here I will take the opportunity as it prepares, rather the replicas, but I will take the opportunity to greet the students and pupils of the Biograd high school at sea, of course from Biograd at sea, who are here with us with their teachers and teachers. Thank you for being here. Give it up! Mr. Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75005	Thank you, Chairman. The aim of the replica is indeed to do the most good law that you have already begun to pass, although I will again, according to all that your reasoning and everything that has been done in the law, in the end it seems that everything could have been regulated by already existing laws, and that this Law only adds to the administration, they add to the law, as the MPs have said before, there are no EU members, and their agricultural activity works a million times better than in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I'm calling you, all the arguments we're making and all the amendments we're going to give you during the debate, at least try to think about them. One of the things you mentioned, colleague Peninic, is about financial penalties and I really agree, why you will punish a person if she accidentally made a mistake in the title. And that can happen. She can put on a board, and she can make a mistake in the headlines, make sure she gets 15 grand in fines. It's not proportionate. But what I would like to warn is especially one thing that I didn't even get in those first two minutes, I want you to explain it too. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 28. It says that a member of the OPG may be a full-age and business capable person, who is a Now just imagine how many people in the Republic of Croatia after the war have gone into invalid retirement and for whom all are worth incompetence and whether they will be able or not to be members and what message we send to people when we give them the knowledge that we do not need them and that they have no possibility of being registered either as members of the family holding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75006	Thank you. Thank you very much. Sir... I hope you noticed that I pretended not to hear that your replicas were not of Mr. Panenic, to Mr. Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that's... Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75007	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petrov, even last week when I was talking about a 5% agricultural production drop, then we talked about making significant steps. Do you really, here you think this law is going to make any of those 5% come back? How much? 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%? Or what we'd like, not just to get those 5% back, but to improve production. And this is how we administratively shape the O.P.G., suppress, try to control... So, state, politics is constantly trying to shape entrepreneurship the way it suits it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That I could statisticalally process her, that I could punish her, that I could condition her. And in the end, what do we get? Does that give us better agricultural production? Whether that agricultural producer who's on the plot, perhaps better now in the spring prepares the land, better sows something, might reap better. No, I don't. He's actually gonna sit there and worry about whether there's a sticker on every piece of equipment, that he didn't accidentally fall off, that he needs to prepare it, to take it to some printer, that there's not an inspector who's so excited about it that morning, so he's gonna say, "I'm sorry, but what's there for a warning, but what I think is too much of you have made a mistake. But when we look at you that we don't have all the violations, I'd say they're really banal. If it wasn't for the purpose of punishing this law, it shouldn't be a goal, but should encourage better agricultural production, and this business ability, I think I've chosen enough in my presentation and that indeed here, society needs to be, and the government and the Ministry should also take care that everyone is responsible for these persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75008	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75009	Thank you very much. Col. Panenić, what these OPGs get except administrative barriers, increasing the administration, which is Croatian citizens are essentially discriminated against by foreigners because the fact is that the Law of Agriculture, and this issue is very important to me, not so long ago, that legal and natural persons from 2020 can buy agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. Is this law with sanctions, the administration, it's huge, of course not sanctioning the silos that are the supply reserves of cereals... but maybe someone's gonna peel potatoes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, sanctions on increasing the administration and, of course, discrimination against Croatian citizens, which is the sequence of policies that are the Agriculture Act, which is why I am sorry that it is not here Minister Tolusic, on agricultural land and clearly given the possibility since 2020 that foreigners can buy agricultural land, and we know that it is a national resource, from the most significant national resources, especially now that these parts of our region have been emptied, especially your Slavonia, and my Dalmatian Zagora. So two questions. Which, which brings the OPG to our farmers and secondly, is whether this is a targeted policy and therefore the minister does not appear here in the first reading or in the second reading because he works in the interests of foreigners, not domestic family economies and our peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75010	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75011	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bulj, while I was Minister of Economy, I was approached by a number of organizations representing the interest of entrepreneurs. Key requirements are among other things one of the most important was, reduce that press, the state press, that administrative press, the bureaucratic press, let us breathe, let us work, create something and help us where we ask for help. Did you hear that the O.P.G. asked one to punish him? Did an O.P.G. ask you to put your sticker on some machine? Did one O.P.G. ask him to report to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency on what he produced? Why would the O.P.G. ask himself for something that will slow him down or that will ultimately be financially negative in his score? What were the O.P.G.s looking for? Help us sell our products, give us someone to make it a little cheaper, a little more expensive depends on development, on size, on purchasing opportunities, about everything they ask of us, usually give us all as much credit as possible, secure quality grants so that we can improve our business and help us on the market not to come into a situation that we constantly sell our goods below production prices or with very little profit, is that then it does not provide us with long term. That's where we made the mistake, that's where the promoter didn't listen, he didn't listen to what the OPGs were looking for. And I believe that now you're asking 160,000 OPG do they want any punishment, what will be the result? Let's not even put ourselves in that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75012	Thank you, too. Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75013	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Panenić you said and I disagree with you there that the law seems to have not been well prepared, so many proposals and remarks have been accepted between the two readings. On the contrary, I think, I think that just the kind of law that was first passed in this Parliament and this country should have as wide a consensus as possible and should allow as many people as possible to get involved in it and that as many of those remarks are then incorporated into the law and that's exactly right. As far as your thesis is concerned, it's not a good thing that the economy owner has to be a business capable person and I don't agree with that. I think that he must be businessly capable just as it's written, but as far as these other things are concerned, I went to read the same in the law written by the O.P.G. holder must be a full-time and professional person, and a member of the O.P.G. can be a full-age member. If he can do that, we can interpret that he doesn't have to be then I support it, but if it's imperative that even a member of the O.P.G. must be a business capable person then I agree with you that this should be loosened and just go in this direction he can, that means he doesn't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75014	Thank you. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75015	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Križanić, just when we were talking about a broad discussion right now, we introduced new electronic communication models, but I think we have shortened the possibility of a wider debate. Of course, the Ministry published in the debate the proposal for an OPG law within the framework of the E- Consultation. But let us remember that we once had very broad consultations, consultations on the spot because it comes to a number of coordinations, meetings or numerous events where representatives of OPG associations or agricultural producers and through a variety of where it was really much debated. This is how we all have legitimacy, we publish on the E-consultation who got involved during that time, he got involved, but then we don't have all the information from the people themselves on the ground, and it's good that we have the representatives here, and then through that communication come proposals and it's good to adopt. But I'm sure it would be better if we had talked about it earlier then we'd have less to do here, we could have said the law is good. On this second of your findings, here's exactly what this article says can be, but it's always questionable. Why even if it can be, why is there even a provision? Here's the amendment that she can be a full-age person, but after this, I would agree, let's just delete that article, just for a member if the term of adulthood is okay, here's something, but looking at it like this, then she doesn't need to be questioned at all. But I'd say that's what we're opening up about, and we're opening up space and proposing, so when there's a vote, let's actually sort of share that position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75016	Thank you, too. Next replica, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Panenic, here are some things that you might need to complete, add or change. I would like to start the first of this matter of the size of the economy of 3000 euros SO, after which it is mandatory to enter the register and thus agree that the economy above 3000 should be entered in the register. But I disagree that when they cross that 3,000-SO border, they must pay pension and health care. Since I've been from a hectare to 30 acres of economic development in my life, I know the situation. So 3000 SO is about 22,500 kuna of income, pension and health benefits annually amounting to about 7,000 kuna. If no one in that economy works anywhere, if that's their only income, then it's too much of a burden on them and they'll just shut down the OPG rather than continue with them. We at HSS will suggest that it be 10,000 SO because then it's already some amount of life and existence, not God knows how but it can survive. About business skills, I agree with you right here because there are really family members who are not business members, but they love and they want to do it and it helps them and releases them in their condition and I think we should allow such a thing and I don't think that this and the ministry are probably some kind of problem that all members have to be commercially capable. Records of sold and manufactured products, very difficult for those who sell on stands, records everything you bring, what you sell and constantly weigh simo-there, something, I think it's too much of a burden and setting up new obstacles. In two years we've lost 40,000 OPGs and let's reduce obstacles as irrelevant as this and many others that these people don't shut down the OPGs, rather than exist, no matter how big they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75018	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75019	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lenart, just defining some universal size is the problem we're about to face. Definitely Croatia is not a universal country in a way that all our areas are, is equal to development or equal potential in agricultural production. It became common for me to have tens of acres and more. It becomes more and more common, some larger quantities. Somewhere further and small amounts actually allow someone close to a larger city center to produce something and to market. And then setting the scales of 3,000, I always wonder, OK, how exactly did you get to that. Let us see these examples of how someone is doing, that will be helpful in future times, that is, the one who is up to 3,000 that he will not be covered, whether it helps him too. Is that actually some sort of sustainability measure? Here you have said yourself that when you look at financial expenditures for pension, social insurance that we come here to borders where some are not sustainable and have no choice, they have no choice but it's the only thing that this country is currently providing them with, in fact, their property, inheritance, or what, it gives them that they can create something in it. It means by introducing them and making these contributions, and that's where we're gonna block them. Of course, we all want a solid pension fund to be full, but we don't have to be the least of those who will contribute and probably later that what he has contributed will be a bad one. And that's the example we have in every debate about the size of pensions. And this about the records definitely yes, this kind of record I don't know will solve again the problem we have left on those speculators. In this way we have actually burdened those who are right and those speculators are not solved by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75020	Thank you, too. Next replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75021	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, therefore, this is a key thing that you emphasized, an administration that imposes on family farms. Keeping track, you see, the state needs to get serious first. We have warned through the Agricultural Land Act and in this law regarding the information system. He's got three parts. The first part is a system for managing business documentation, the second part is a system for visualising and searching graphic and alphanumeric data of catastrian particles. And the third system is contract records and contracts. These systems are not interlinked, and individual identical data are sought multiplely. You have a case of two rooms, that's what I called it, I read in the media. In one room a man issues solutions that he sends to the OPGs, in another room this same solution requires the OPG to return because it is necessary for the application. It's for the state, these things are inadmissible. You have in the agency a register for lab data on soil analysis. And be careful what the audit says, the base has a low level of protection, there is a high risk of input errors, difficult management analysis and data usage. Contract system and contract records. Some units of local self-government have not received a username, a password and a connection to the system. Imagine that. Now we've got, we've got that back, the units have been giving to the agency, now the agency is returning to the municipalities and we don't have a solution to the basic data. You know all these computers, someone invested in that huge money and state-owned unit of local self-government and we now have those computers then we can when the cabbage is acidified you know then you can put that computer that nice, maybe worse monitor to make it harder so let's, even if the cabbage is sour. 'Cause what's that for? We dropped the money. The state isn't being serious. We also have a state office for digital society, these are things that are inadmissible for our information systems to be less usable than a filament lamp. You know, its usability is 5% and our systems are less informative than that. It's a disgrace to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75022	Thank you. Mrs. Jeckov, please. And excuse me, Mr. Panenic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75023	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Zhagar, of course, that this problem of harmonising software support, he is not only visible here in that narrow circle you spoke of, he is also evident in relations between individual ministries. With this problem, we also met in the government of Prime Minister Oreshkovic and we tried then, I say we tried because we did not get the right opportunity to go to coordination. It means that software solutions implemented somewhere must provide a link of compatibility with other programming areas. You know what was actually an answer or a reaction? That the providers of these services, they were struggling in their hearts not to actually happen. So each of them wants to have their own individual database for which only they are serviced to share as little as possible because then, of course, their role is much smaller and that each ministry is separately getting, that they are not getting solutions that are at government level, but that every ministry, every agency, every single unit has its own acquisition, in that supply that can be manipulated and ultimately that these solutions are not universal but specific, so that we now have a problem when we need to connect basic databases, you can no longer, you don't actually have a mechanism to rip it up. And then what happens to us? Then it happens when a agricultural holding is to be reported somewhere and then all those certificates that exist in electronic databases need to be delivered in writing. And then you deliver them there. And what, here I was talking to a farmer yesterday, what bothers him? Open a tender of measures, ask for certain documentation, deliver that documentation, spend the funds, justify as funds, then ask me to, but give us another document and that. Then people rightly wonder if I need it, if it says it in the contest, why are you looking for me? If you didn't ask for it then, don't ask for it later. [[Intruder Radin: Mr Panenić, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75024	Now really Mrs. Jeckov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75025	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Panenic, which is why you think that by applying this law, this law will have a negative impact on the traditional form of agricultural production. By reading this law, I have not come across the possibility that this traditional way of production could be touched at all. I don't think anything of this law will be changed in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75026	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75027	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Jeckov. So here, let's open up a debate. One thing's actually bad, the other's good. I also practically based most of my debate on not seeing what would be so good that it would financially improve the situation of a agricultural economy. I don't see any in the manufacturing section that it'll be helpful. What if someone becomes a normal neat OPG to be recorded? What does he get out of it? Kuna? Two? What? A hundred grand? I don't see any. We just had the Agricultural Land Act, the OPGs. It does not stand for the OPGs to be defined under the OPG Act. It's not the size of this one, it's the O.P.G. So we're all universal, and we've only got one law that will cover one piece. And that's what I just said about the bad guy. It's bad when you have a simplified form of business where your administrative obligations are reduced. And then after that, the proposer and this Ministry of Agriculture thinks that you still need to get a little better involved, that more reports work, that you're on multiple bases, that your mechanism that we know has a problem, some of them don't even have evidence. Let's say you have a skater, a plater obtained by who knows when 30, 40 years ago someone's been using. Now you have to prove it, I'll put it on. It's mine. If you're going to sign up, then someone can say the same thing, no, I'm the one who signed in, and so is mine, so show me the bill. It's gonna be hard to prove. And, of course, that part of the financial finalisation for such certain banalities so far has not been anyone, no one has had to be afraid of them. I'd understand that they're doing a financial violation some or doing damage to their agricultural production, but for one sign I can't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75028	Thank you. And in the end, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75029	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, you spoke of punishment. Indeed, this punishment has exceeded all limits, all measures, people who have little entrepreneurship, the OPGs, and so on are punished for every little thing. There's an inspection coming in, he finds a little something, and then he gets a ticket right away. I think that we should radically change the entire system of punishment that exists with us when it comes to entrepreneurs and that we should prescribe that first warnings are necessary. So the first thing to do is to be warned. If after a warning someone does not do what is asked, then they should only follow the punishment. And the other thing, I think it would be very good to introduce a new system of punishment as I've heard it exists in Switzerland. Apparently, they're punishing the property there, according to income, according to the property of a certain individual. Well, not everyone has the same punishment. So it's not the same if someone has a billion in their account or if they have a million in their account or if they have a hundred grand in their account, and then they're proportionately punished by property. Such punishment would be good for both the state and the individual, and for righteousness, because it is not the same if someone who has a great deal commits a crime and if someone who has a little bit commits a crime and is equally punished. We bring people who are on the verge of existence, on the brink of the iris with such punishment as is present now. Because people often work on the edge of opportunity. They're often at zero, positive zero. And then if we punish them, they'll have to shut down their entrepreneurship and they won't be able to move on. Here's what I'm trying to say is that this is how we should approach the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75030	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75031	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Alexic, if you look at the laws on inspections, given that you are currently distributed by the resolution ministries, you will notice one single inspection that actually has such a regulation as you have said. So when I was a minister of the economy one of the laws that I proposed, actually the amendment was that the inspection in my actions, if they determine irregularities and I'm talking about those that don't mean a life-threatening threat, which doesn't mean that we don't have any disturbance important to the living space, that a procedure can be initiated to remove this irregularity and to determine a period within which an irregularity should be removed. If it is not removed within that time limit, then we agree, ok. Now let's punish. And I think it's a normal thing to do, and most entrepreneurs have just complained about such provisions. Sometimes even though they are aware that they must know, but in the scope of what they do and the extent of the law, which is like this, new failures arise. Nobody warned, they didn't see it. And then when the inspector shows up, then he determines you don't have that. And this one says okay. I'd do it sometime now, give me a chance, no. He says but hello, what I'm here now and it'll be on the record. After that, there's a misdemeanor. You even go to criminal courts. And now we have, actually this is the second law where it applies. I say, but how long do we need? So I changed in 2016 for the first time. Now there's a new one. There's going to be a reunion as far as I can see in the inspections' announcements. Whether that regulation will continue or disappear. Will there be any warnings or will they be removed? When I look at the seal, here it is now, also about the reform measures, that the seal will be removed. When did I propose it? 2016 [[Intruder Radin: Time, Mr Panenić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75032	That was the last one. Now Mr. Giovanni Sponza is in front of the IDS, PGS and LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75033	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. During the debate in the first reading, and I will speak on behalf of the IDS Club, PGS and LRI, I stressed that the bill is better than the existing one, that there are good provisions that simplify the work of the OPGs, that this specifically applies to its parts that regulate the occasional work and work of family members in the OPG, that we assess the bill as a good first step that will allow the OPGs to differ from other economic operators and that will help regulate the markets of agricultural and food products. On the other hand, at the first reading of the Law, our Club pointed to a series of irregularities, excessive administration and the introduction of unnecessary new costs, and as I stress the need for full, unequivocal and enforceable legal decisions, our Club also proposed amendments and amendments to certain provisions of the Law. So today on the second reading, I am pleased that the proposal between these two readings adopted almost all the suggestions that our Club made during the debate in the first reading. What we're getting at. 18. In particular, it was pointed out that, when registering and marking, the OPG would be uniformed with the company, which would introduce another unnecessary imposition for OPG owners when changing names, tables, stamps, but also other different documents, so as to assess both positive and useful what the applicant accepted our suggestions on Article 18. 18, so as not to impose unnecessary imposes on OPG owners. During the debate in the first reading, we noted that it is necessary to define the phenomenon of real life in the Law. In fact, it's about a lot of OPGs being founded by family-related people living in the same household, but they're because of a change in their lives, e.g. Because of their marriage, they moved to another address and are no longer members of the same household, but continue to work on the economy are still members of the economy with all rights and obligations. So we're glad there's been a suggestion about art. 22 allowing those persons to be able to become in the agency without losing the status of a member of the household that the Law defines some very important rights and obligations, e.g. death in the OPG family and therefore the rights and obligations of members. Another problem that existed in the original text of the Law and which we pointed to is the list of additional activities that the OPG can carry out. In the list of complementary activities, it is indicated that the production of agricultural and food products at the OPG may be carried out from mainly own production with the purchase of parts of raw materials from other agricultural holdings in accordance with specific rules on food. This definition represented a certain limiting factor for all those successful OPGs that currently place their products throughout the Republic of Croatia and around the world, which make up most of the production by buying out small local OPGs. There are examples of successful OPGs, which thanks to quality products, but, above all, to a good branding, have reached a production level in which most of them belong to the purchase of other local OPGs, thereby helping the local community and what is also very important to highlight, solve us for market surpluses that would inevitably occur. So I appreciate the usefulness of the applicant's acceptance of our Club's proposal between the two readings, mostly because no one should be in the interest that successful OPGs reduce production and purchase, thus creating market surpluses that are impossible to place on the market, so it is good that this restrictive provision has been deleted from the final draft law. And lastly, I would like to say that by reading this final Bill on the Family Agricultural Economy, it is evident that the proponent between the two readings listened to the voice of the professional public, and as I have today cited from the opposition ranks, which indicates that the promoter was open to all well-intentioned remarks and suggestions, and we in our Club assess no less important, that the proponent of this Law wanted both conceptually and meaningfully to define the status of OPGs. Of course, there are always certain improvements, as well as the improvements themselves, and it is expected that certain concerns will arise in the application of this Act, but we can generally say that this Law is a step in the right direction of the development of agriculture and for those living from the country, so that our Club, Club IDS, PGS and LRI will support the adoption of the Agricultural Family Economy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75034	Thank you, Giovanni. You have one replica of Mr Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75035	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you yourself have said that this Law has a real opportunity to become good and good. And what's presented is a series of actually our comments in front of the Most Representatives' Club, just in the direction that what else is polished. With this we will get the law which is technically going to be acceptable to everyone. So I feel the same way that these amendments we've given and that they are accepted in this volume or perhaps in some proposal where they would agree to make that law acceptable. But it's not just a matter of acceptability, of what I lack in your presentation, do you think this law will allow a more significant, larger income to a certain OPG? What article of this law benefits in the production work? So what will the economics of this law contribute to an agricultural economy and its financial outcome? It's actually things that are expected of the OPG Act. Not only can the OPG be arranged, we can always arrange it more or less, and of course sometimes it's necessary for some arrangement not to be all-powerful, but it's crucial to read whether in future time it's the expectation of the promoter or of you, whether it's going to be a 10% better financial result, 15%, 1%, so these are the questions we expect. In fact, the OPGs expect this to improve. Not only will it prevent execution or legalize what family members have done to them as they have done to date but what will be better in future times. At least that's what we in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem expect, to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75036	Thank you very much. Mr. Sponza's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75037	I thank Mr Panenic for your contribution to this debate. First of all, what I would like to stress is that I view as a statement of responsibility to each legislative proposal and a solution is that every single representative, including the club, in the context of responsibility, to make its contribution through concrete proposals, solutions, improvements to a certain legal act, and in my debate, I have pointed out, spoke and explained and explained why we specifically proposed, which is concretely adopted and that I am holding something that is good for the reason that the promoter has shown an absolute openness and willingness to improve the text of the final bill. I would answer this observation in a way that this final bill should also be seen in the context of the Agricultural Land Act and that it is not possible to separate one from the other by the order mentioned above, I was very precise and clear on behalf of the club when I spoke about the Agricultural Land Act and showed some restraint. But what you are asking right now, I believe that I am in the good work and I have responded, and that is that it is a good thing that the promoter has accepted our suggestion and as regards the list of additional activities that the OPG can carry out and I hold that this amendment or that acceptance of that provision also wants to have a positive impact on economic indicators in due time. It's something that's useful and that's sure to give results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75038	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Josip Križanić's turn in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. We have the Final Proposal for the Law on the OPG, given that its great importance for Croatian agriculture but also the high public interest in its adoption for the first time in this House, the ministry has indeed held the widest possible debate until this final proposal and in order for this law to be given as broad a consensus as possible. I would like to point out that, on the Committee on Agriculture, the law has also brought full support after a wide debate, and I will also say a few words about the metricity itself. Therefore, the OPG is an organisational form of the entity, someone here asked what it is, in fact, the OPG, a farmer in the capacity of a natural person who, for the purpose of creating income, independently and permanently carries out the activity of agriculture and related activities and is based on the work of its members and on the use of its own and/or leased production resources. Unlike farmers who are craftsmen or legal persons in the form of d.d. or d.o.o., the farmer in the OPG has so far not had his own regulation which would enable him to identify specificities and how they prescribe conditions for carrying out economic activities on the principles of European practices. The CAP law also makes a difference for those agricultural holdings which are engaged in agriculture in their own household for their own needs from those whose members are members of the CAP in order to achieve their incomes in the agricultural production of business and market-oriented form. It is precisely this market-oriented OPG that generates revenue from their activities that compete with other organisational forms of farmers and, therefore, an important legal regulation that will create about equal operating conditions for them on the market. The intention is, in fact, to give the OPG Act an appropriate motivation that one family is now managing a single OPG in order to enable state management and self-employment of family members with detimulation, depreciation of production resources. When entering the OPG register, depending on the additional activities of the OPG, the OPG shall select a status which may be an OPG for production, production and processing, for production and services and for production, processing and services. The OPG may also carry out the economic activities of agriculture and additional activities included in the OPG register and may be the production of agricultural and food products, the production of non-food products, the provision of catering, tourist services and the provision of other contents and activities at the OPG. The paying agency will invite farmers with an economic size of a holding greater than 3000 euros to comply with the law in question on the principle of volunteering. If someone does not want to enter the OPG registry, they will have to bring their resources in line with the provisions of the law. The adoption of this law gives support to the OPGs to assist members of the wider family in their work on seasonal and occasional jobs without the obligation to have a working relationship. Therefore, it is precisely defined who these members are and the possibility of retaining the performance of an OPG member to a person who ceases to be a member of the family provided that he continues to work on the OPG. That's changed in this second reading. In order not to create a tax gap for PAGs whose economic size is less than EUR 3000 which deals with agriculture for personal purposes in the context of the use of the country's natural resources and the sale, i.e. by replacing those activities of the products obtained in the unprocessed state which carry out the economic activity of agriculture is not the main activity, i.e. the occupation of the farmer is not the main or sole occupation. It is prescribed that such an OPG be entered in the register of farmers run by the paying agency in accordance with the Agriculture Act. In this way, their former rights and obligations are not diminished or changed. For the obligations incurred in carrying out the economic activity of agriculture, the CAP holder shall be responsible for all of his assets. In order to achieve monetary demand against the holder, this is where the fact that the members of the OPG are also removed corresponds to the property which is good. In order to achieve monetary demand against the OPG holder, the implementation cannot be carried out on part of the natural resources entered in the OPG register which are necessary to carry out its economic activity if that activity is the main source of the funds for its life. Furthermore, the enforcement against the OPG holder cannot even be carried out on the property owned by the OPG holder. In the event that the search is less than 20000 kuna in order to protect against enforcement on agricultural resources as real estate and movables, a voluntary legal procedure must be carried out prior to the launch of the exercise. In the case where the OPG has live animals in order to ensure the sustainability of basic activities at the OPG, it shall be possible to open a protected account allowing the collection of the total funds of the OPG holder for the purpose of the need for regular functioning of food supply and other care for live animals, and the amounts of funds to be excluded from the implementation for the purpose of ensuring applied animal care. It's also new in this second reading. At the same time, a natural person may not have a registered trade under the Act for carrying out agricultural activities and the OPG under this Act. The name of the OPG is the name under which the OPG operates and under which it participates in legal traffic, and it is clearly prescribed to determine the seat of the OPG. The OPG holder shall be a natural person, a member of the OPG, who shall be held as a responsible person in the OPG register. Therefore, it must be a full-time business capable person, can be the holder of only one OPG, cannot be a member of the OPG in another OPG and cannot be a person who has a registered trade for the activity of agriculture and forestry under special law. The law does not violate the conditions of the tax system. However, it aims to create assumptions for the identification of target groups and the adaptation of agricultural holdings, assuming that the OPG can clearly show the costs and revenues of business in relation to the cost of life. As for the conduct of a competent inspection, we are all constantly and repeatedly advocated and there is also a prescribed statement of notice for the initial minor infringements. Only for significant infringements of the relapses are fines imposed, all for educational action, and corrective measures only as an extreme necessity. The purpose of the OPG Act is to open, in an unambiguous manner, the possibility of extending the scope of agricultural activities which may be covered by the OPG in the permitted form, to encourage the OPGs to develop their own capacities in the production of agricultural and food products and to provide OPG services in agriculture and related activities in ways that enable better use of production capacities, and to improve the use of knowledge, skills and work of OPG members. Furthermore, in accordance with this law, the OPG may negotiate joint agricultural production with other OPGs in order to make better use of production potentials for listed complementary activities. We've waited a long time for this law, many governments have tried to pass it so far. It took the OPGs a long time to get it, and so I want to make it clear that this law is good, it's welcome, and it's good that it's in the parliamentary procedure, and the HDZ club will support it. There will certainly be times later to follow his implementation into real life and, if necessary, improve it. Nothing is the Holy Scriptures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75040	Thank you, too. You have five replicas. First he asked for Mr. Lenart's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75041	Thank you, dear Vice President. A colleague of Križanić, since you represented this law on behalf of the HDZ Club, i.e. You've been discussing and talking about some things in this law. The first thing I would agree with you is a warning before punishment. And it shouldn't be every time there's a minor offense to say the penalty immediately, but it should give a warning, a time to remove the lack. And if that someone within a reasonable time frame has not been removed, then they can only access the boss. You have also talked about Article 15(4), where it says that a natural person referred to in paragraph 1 of this article may have at the same time, cannot have a trade at the same time for carrying out agricultural activity and OPG, and here it turns out that he can have a company and an OPG, so he writes here, he just can't have a craft, so he can have a company. And secondly, this is Article 18. I am interested in your opinion and your club, which states in paragraph 4, that the name of the OPG must be visiblely highlighted at the address of the seat, on the separate drives of the OPG with which I agree. But he continues to say, and on those means and or places where the activity is carried out if it is open-air activities. Does this mean that every piece of land can be interpreted like this, colleagues from the ministry take their heads off, but can it be interpreted like that, does this mean that we're going to have to stick a board on each board that it's someone's OPG, given the private property, small economies that are torn apart with a lot of particle IDs, with a lot of what kind of stuff, and we're just going to stick and type tables? I think this should be much clearer in paragraph 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75042	Thank you, Mr. Lenart, thank you. Mr. Križanić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75043	I thank Mr. Lenart for these questions and discussions. I'm always happy when someone from the profession asks me a question so we can comment on it. So a reminder, a solution, an execution of a solution, and then finally, if you need to be punished, I'm sure I'm up to it all the time. We operatives know what it means, if someone comes in, if the inspector comes in first, so let him check it out in a month, so let him write a solution and then execute the solution and then, and then, at the very least, if someone is a rectifier five times, don't remove the shortcomings, then let him be punished. You were talking about the company and the OPG, that he was in the first reading of the proposal that he couldn't be some co-owner of the company or... the stock packages and the OPG carrier. There were proposals from the general public to move that provision, that provision was removed. I can say my opinion on it and then I said listen to it. And thirdly, the name of the OPG, normally I think that the legislator is very likely to think that this name of the OPG should be highlighted in a visible location at the OPG headquarters. And no one in their right mind is likely to control, perhaps later on, the secretary of state will answer, no one in their right mind will control the 500 particles of yours that you have from one hectare or two that on each particle you have a board stuck and where it says who owns that particle that it's the OPG and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75044	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75045	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Križanić, here we have opened a question in your debate which is little for the proponent to think about, and we have passed through and on the board, so I didn't notice then, and perhaps it's good to ask myself. So opening a protected OPG account is actually a protected carrier account as a natural person. He may, on some other basis, be the subject of acting that someone is trying to collect his claim. And what we have, we have the protected part that's for the family, so we've defined it as such, that's three-quarters of the wages that are protected so they can't be done. On the other hand, we have animals that have the same thing here defined the amount that we basically come up with then we'll probably have a problem that will arise when such a person who has an OPG will need to have a certain loan of some financial means, as the bank will observe it. I mean, I'm really here right now, and I'm opening this up for discussion, how one bank will observe if you have a protected part as a person, and you have a protected part of the family on the other, because of a production plant that can't, you can't stop. As a matter of fact, here we should consider some of the arrangements with banks to find a model of functioning so that it doesn't turn out to be a really disabled person to be in debt because of what we have through two laws we are going to do in some way to help. But I'm saying, there's going to be one more legal question to ask, so here's hoping the secretary of state will answer, but I don't know if it's maybe if you've talked about it, so you have some concrete answer to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75046	Answer, Mr. Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75047	Thank you. Mr. Panenic, I'm sure it's a topic of discussion. The point of this protected account is precisely if the OPG holder is in trouble, that at that moment it cannot be removed from his account more than he can, so that is the ultimate necessity. It's a good question of what's going to happen with such an OPG in the future and how much... he sure as hell isn't at that moment and I'm afraid he'll be able to even look for loans or compete with the bank. But these things, I believe, will be dealt with by sublaw, I'm not sure he knows the answer to that question at this point by the Secretary of State. And these things about animal care and insurance, it's exactly right now that it's defined exactly what amount of money should be provided for animal care so that it can't be manipulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75048	Now it's Mrs. Jeck's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75049	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Križanić. I'm interested in your opinion and your position on the definition of OPG headquarters. In a public debate, however, the concept of weighting the activity as a possible option for determining the seat, has disappeared. And there are known cases of the following characteristics, that the owners of the land in the Republic of Croatia are also of course Croatian citizens, but they do not live in the Republic of Croatia but in the surrounding countries. They, of course, won't be able to establish an OPG at all under this law, so I'm curious about the number they didn't have, what is your position on this issue?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75050	I thank my colleagues, Jeckov, for this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75051	Mr. Križanić, I give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75052	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. So that's the problem, it's a serious problem, namely this law was the establishment of an OPG based residence in the Croatian area and the problem is the same as... Croatian citizens will be in the same treatment as EU citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem is that citizens who are not yet EU members, where I think of our neighbours from Bosnia or Serbia, for example, who will certainly have such a problem, who on the one hand have a place of residence and on the other. This problem is likely to have to be solved by interstate contracts, I know that this is a problem and that it will have to be approached, the intensity was to run farmers and economic activities where they live, but this is a set of specific situations maybe someone lives two and three kilometers away along the border, on the one hand has a residence, on the other hand, but it will certainly be our state authorities that will find a way to solve this big interstate agreements and I agree that this is a problem that we will have to solve as soon as this law or sublaws or interstate agreements are passed, but that is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75053	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75054	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, colleague Križanić, you stressed the importance of this law once again and that he should define what it is about the OPG, who is involved in agricultural production and how to raise agricultural production, which is the ultimate goal of food production in the Republic of Croatia. And I don't agree with you that we need to focus only on the target group, but the target group has to be all the OPGs and try to stay alive and start some new ones and deal with agricultural production, preserve rural space. And on the other hand, I agree with you that in this part of the control of food production there must be order in the Republic of Croatia but that we need to protect our production more, our OPGs. Therefore, I do not understand why the minister gave up under pressure from import lobbies, from stronger control of imports of agricultural food products to the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand replaced the veterinary inspector, or the assistant minister of the state for veterinary inspection at the closed session of the Government, because he said that the pressure on the OPGs, crafts and small entrepreneurs involved in food production is reduced. This shows that it is obviously not the interest of the Republic of Croatia to protect domestic production but to import food, so I ask you about it because I believe that you are right when you say that you should be warned first and then punished, but also the penalties provided for by this law are too high and I fear that after Easter these inspectors will be ordered to go to these OPGs and immediately dispel maximum penalties to fill the state budget and this should not be the purpose of this law or any of them in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75055	Mr. Križanić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75056	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic, you and I often, most often agree on our thesis, you and I disagreed you said about the target group, I didn't even say that we had to, I might have said, but I don't think that we should focus only on the target group than I said that the law has set the target group, sure that all OPGs are important to us, whether they have 2, 3, 5,000 kuna or 10,000 kuna income, every income is income. As for control, I've always talked about it, and now I'm going to say it again. No one's defending us above standard. We are not prevented from taking samples from non-import EU members, it is not an import but an entry, but we can take as many samples as we want according to a particular key only we must not have more or less or more of each other in such a way, so we must not positively or negatively discriminate against any individual EU member. Why do you care, I don't think you care, I think it's still working on it, if it can be intensified, it can be done. As for the shift and the way and the pressure for the Easter on the OPGs, I think the intensity of the assistant and it wasn't like that that he said that we shouldn't be doing control for these Easter holidays but right now, I think the intensity was such that he said that he needed to loosen up just for these holidays especially according to the OPGs, that we're not just treading them these days when they all have Easters, so let them have them, and there's time to control themselves. So, system control always takes, 24 hours a day, 365 days, that's control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75057	Thank you very much. And finally Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75058	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. A colleague of Križanić, well, you said that in fact this law would be of great importance for Croatian agriculture, right, it seems to me that it was and now that he is actually a law based or adopted on the principles of European practices. Now that we know that we may be among the first or we are the first to actually pass such a law, the Law on the OPG, that in Europe, European countries and we do not know it as such, and among millions of agricultural economies in Europe and most of them are more than 90% of the OPGs, and European countries do not know or have any such specific law, they have not, neither tried to nor legally establish it, so I ask you, what do you mean by the principles of European practice, because I am saying that precisely because of the specificity of the role of the OPG in preserving rural development, no country has actually adopted, in fact, any such, specific specific law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75059	Mr. Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75060	I thank my colleagues for this question. So this intensity, when I was talking about European countries' environment, then I think that, by this law too, when we get this law, the OPG will have to act on certain aspects, which the EU's agricultural economies are already acting on, and that, with such an adjustment of the state of the agricultural holding in Croatia, it will be easier to compete on European funds and withdraw funds. That was my intensity, just as you say the EU, developed countries of the West, then you know that there are some things that have been set up by automation and put together with us that aren't even close. So, I think we're going to encourage our farmers and our agricultural economies to at least work things out, and then they can compete easier for European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75061	Thank you. We move on to the next speaker, in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75062	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretary with associate, we have today the Final Proposal of the Law on the OPG, which has therefore already passed a parliamentary debate and we cannot say that it has become bad, it has some good solutions in it, but in the introduction I must stress and appeal that the situation in Croatian agriculture is disastrous. And it's hard to expect that one of these, specialized narrow law, will be able to make it better. By observing the data available by the State Statistics Institute, Croatian agriculture lost 2/3 of what it had previously had, i.e. production in certain sectors. That's enough, for example. look at the state of the dairy sector or in some other areas. Croatia last year imported food for 10 billion kuna, which is an absolute record, and that food is, therefore, free to call waste. It is sad to see our citizens buying food in neighbouring countries, whether it is the BIH, whether it is Slovenia, Hungary or Serbia. It is sad to see that even Croatian tax policies make Croatian products cheaper abroad than in Croatia. Croatian agriculture will not be able to recover as long as such monetary policy and Croatia will not recover so long, while general politics is in the hands of such a parliamentary majority. As for the OPGs themselves, owners and members of the OPGs complain that they have too many administrations, they complain that they have too many costs, and we see that they have a lot of problems with performances and blockades and that the state is not helping them very much. There's talk of some kind of European funds that could help the OPGs, but we can see that there's very little use for that, because projects are, uh, angled. They do not approve, and when they are approved, then it is necessary to have their own resources, in order to launch the project at all. Since most farmers do not have their own resources, they would expect to be helped by the state, helped by banks, but unfortunately they do not want to help them, so they often have to give up already signed European projects. The HDZ, in its 2016 programme, promised the establishment of the Agricultural Bank, so here, I would like to see someone from that party tell us at what stage the draft of that bank is, since you promised to do so, so you will do so during your term of office. Maybe one such Agro bank could help the O.P.G. bridge the crisis months. When I was talking about this law offering some good solutions, let's say, I would like to point out that here it is trying to protect the OPG from the performance, that's good, that's what we in the Living Wall can certainly support, but, in general, because of the policy that Croatia is leading as a member of the EU, it is not clear that this law will avoid the debt slavery of farmers. I hope, in that sense, we will look for improvements, and I hope that we will not get into a situation, as have some EU members, such as France, that we have cases of suicide of farmers on a daily basis, precisely because of debts. In this regard, as far as Croatia is concerned, it is enough to remind ourselves of the tragic case of the farmer Ivan Hadjasia from around Bjelovar. In this law, it tries to define what the OPG is and what it is, in particular, in art. The 5th law in question, and the question is how far did the applicant manage to respond to this request. In Croatia, there are 157000 OPGs, of which 2/3 have a value of less than 7990 euros. Only 400 OPGs have a value greater than 250 thousand euros. According to the name he bears, therefore, the family agricultural holding, members of the family should work and not be employed by employees. It shouldn't happen, therefore, if we had one OPG owner and 20 employees, because then it would actually be a craft, or a company, rather than a necessarily OPG. One that has the value of over 250 000 euros and, if it has, say, 15-20 employees, it can benefit from various other benefits given by the state and should not take on those funds originally intended for the CAP. Therefore, we will write an amendment to be in art. 5th century 1 adds that OPG accounts for one or more registered family members with the possibility of hiring up to one permanent worker per registered member of the OPG and a maximum economic size of up to 250 thousand euros. What has already been mentioned here many times and what is indeed one of the most controversial parts of this Law is art. 9. where an EU resident is allowed to own the OPG in Croatia. So this is a kind of discriminatory provision and we will also submit in this sense an amendment that the owner of the OPG, or member, can be exclusively a person who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. We'll also be in Art. 15.v. 4. propose that no member of an OPG may have trades or companies registered for the purpose of carrying out agricultural land, and not only the OPG holder, in order to prevent possible malversions. So, this current bill of law, only the holder of the OPG, must not have a trade or company at the same time. We're asking that and a member because it's very easy to basically, with the carrier to transfer some activity to the member and then again you have different abuses. It is also a controversial article. 18, which is required by the owner of the OPG to mark all its agricultural parcels with a visible label. Since the RH agricultural parcels are extremely depreciated and often resemble tiger skin and someone has an OPG of 30 or 40 or more locations at which they produce agricultural production, it must place on each of them a board of its OPG, and if, by any chance, that board disappears, and it can disappear, I don't know, either because of vandalism or because of weather opportunities, or perhaps because of the action of animals, then it is given a penalty of 15 thousand kuna. So it's concrete and impossible and invaluable. Well then, on the other hand, we suggest you get into art. 18th, this provision is amended. Also in Art. The 24th mentions the possibility of seasonal employment in the OPGs, but is not said how long this seasonal employment can last. So we propose to the Proposer to put into the law that seasonal employment can last a max. Six months. This would again avoid malfeasances where possibly someone could be seasonally employed for years, not to mention for the rest of their lives. And now we finally get to art. 41st, which protects the OPG from the performance, which we welcome, but we believe that the OPG is not sufficiently protected because it is sewn from the purpose of the property in which the family lives and protects crafts assets, but is not at the same time protected by the properties that are used to carry out the activity. In practice, this means, for example, that the owner of cows has protected food to feed those cows, but there is no sheltered barn and other auxiliary facilities where these cows will stay. So it is, in fact, on one side of the absurd, and we will also submit the amendment, and we hope that the Proposer will consider and adopt it, that the implementation needs to be protected and property used to carry out the basic activity. Only in that sense, we could say that the O.P.G. is protected from execution. Any partial solutions, any solutions that lead to the fact that the activity has to stop, are not really a protection, but are merely a waste of sand in the eyes. There's so much from me about this law. We have some other minor remarks to make to the applicant in writing. If the Ministry accepts our amendments, the Living Wall is ready to support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75063	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75064	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll wait for my colleague, Bunjac, to come. Here, he's here. So my replica consists of the following: the situation that we have in the Republic of Croatia, we have used this speaker very much for the option of hiring people. To hire them as much as possible and how to hire them. The fact that we have, I always like to tell from real life, I was in a campaign in Brezovica that we now know about some other situations and there was a young man who was 27-28 years old who had an O.P.G. And he told me a story that in summer time he wanted to hire only for a month or two related to haystacks and gave 500 kunas daily to young people who would help him. And he couldn't find anyone, and then he made the solution that way that he bought the machine that solved it. So what Mr. Bunjac has announced that he would give an amendment in which we will limit... regarding the OPGs we will say that I can do, therefore I am not quoting, so to limit who else can be with family members depending on the income of only one or to determine seasonal work, it absolutely seems inappropriate for this law, that it is inappropriate in the context that if we want to encourage, encourage work and hire as much as possible why the restriction, what are we afraid of? Are we afraid that people on the O.P.G.s will work, earn a job, encourage the development of their end, or are we going to a new limit? Unfortunately, I'm reading it as a new restriction, so I'm interested in the response of my colleague, Bunjca.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75065	Thank you. Here's your answer, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75066	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tartitas. Well, I think you're simply aware of your employment problems for a certain time. This is one of the burning problems in Croatia where people are placed in suspense, so if someone has to work for more than six months it's perfectly logical that he can be reported as an OPG employee, anything that is below six months can be seasonal employment. At the end of the day, I think the word season refers to a certain season. According to what you're proposing, someone could do his whole life in seasonal employment. When you say this, Mr. Bunjac, I don't suggest it, but I suggest a living wall in collaboration with the OPG associations with people who deal with the OPGs. It happens often, and it happened this time just like in the Agricultural Land Act that the government here makes laws that say it promotes agriculture, and the peasants themselves say it's not like that, and I almost dare say it's 100%. The situation in agriculture is absolutely not good and generally not with the OPGs, we see how much work, blockages, etc. And I think you should listen more to the voice of those whose laws directly concern you. Therefore, we believe that there is a need to make it clear what the OPG is, to prevent large players from entering the market, to speculate with agricultural land, and in particular to foreigners. That's our attitude we're not going to give up on just to protect small domestic producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75067	Thank you, too. We still have another replica, they tell me I haven't seen it before, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you said the laws weren't good and the situation in agriculture was disastrous. Surely the situation in agriculture isn't good, certainly it's bad. It was disastrously less important that the food from the imports was waste. Yeah, we eat all kinds of import food and good and bad. We cannot ban imports, but we have polluted the entry from the EU, which is why we can control, we can control the declarations, we can control the sampling at the border. When you were talking about marking the OPG, then we've already commented before, I don't think anyone in their right mind really thinks that on 500 or 1000 parcels as much as there is an OPG everywhere will put a board that the OPG is by name and last name team and team. Furthermore, you had the same thing, I'm also so that someone who owns the OPG and has an OPG shouldn't have an OPG at the same time, but I'm not for limiting neither resources nor limiting what Mrs. Mrak-Taritash said, and I'm never for limiting the size of the OPG. And in the end, I was curious about you saying a lot of things that are wrong and I can agree with a lot of things, but I'm curious about what your proposals are for improving or for agricultural production or just improving this law so that you would accept that law and vote for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75069	Here's your answer, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75070	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Križanić. We're obviously talking to each other, but you all can't hear us. During the debate, I asked you if you as a member of the ruling HDZ could tell you what happened to Agrobank that you, not I, promised in the Programme Reliable in 2016. And you didn't answer my question, but you want to answer my question with a question. You're saying you agree with me to import the junk, why don't you put the declaration on the food? Declarations on food were prescribed in 2005, specifically on GMOs and other ingredients. You're saying what we specifically suggested. In this law we have proposed seven amendments, and we will defend these amendments on Friday if there is a vote and I think it is an important contribution to improving this law. What does the Living Wall specifically suggest? In 2016, in cooperation with top experts, so we created our programme for agriculture and presented it to the public to the university professors. You're not even after two years, and you're saying that you're a farmer you don't even know that we wrote that agricultural program, let alone that you've ever asked me to show it to you or that you've tried to read it in some other way. I can't explain to you in two minutes what it says about a comprehensive document, but I will be happy to explain to you when you and your members of the parliamentary majority show real interest. In short, our programme involves the production of domestic, healthy food, purchase and the same food, and the suppression of imports, in particular non-quality imports, the conversion of Slavonia into the cereals of all Croatia, the creation of a rich peasant and ultimately the impact on a number of other factors of society, such as employment, health, GDP etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75071	Time, Mr. Bunzac. All right, let's move on with Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash in front of the GLASs Club and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75072	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State Majdak and his associate. Here, before us is the final proposal, that is, the second reading of the Law we really call, we say the Law on the CAP, which is the law on the family agricultural economy. And we should really discuss what's family, what's agricultural and what's economic and role and the importance of it all. I somehow always try to make certain things affirmative, what the law should look at and its technical elements, that is, what was done in terms of technique, and what was done in terms of essence. Regardless of what we can say, that we have waited or waited a long time, what is between the first and second readings, is that the promoter has made an effort, that he has kept an eye on what was in the debate in the first reading were observations and that in the final proposal, or what we have today, he has sought to respect all those elements, which are in line with the idea and purpose of this law, were either to respect. When a country adopts a law on the OPG or on the family agricultural economy, then I read it the following way, that it is important for the state to have that form at all in importance, that it is important to point out that in Croatia there is, if I read it well, and I read it well 164458 OPG and that it is important to regulate it by law. This law itself will not solve the problem of agriculture that we have. It will regulate in a certain way a part of which the predecessors have said, and as the report says, they have previously regulated several laws, such as the Law on Trade, the Law on Cooperatives, therefore, it will in a certain way regulate it and will not, in terms of enhanced agricultural production, in terms of employment, in terms of any other change, bring anything new, if we do not really apply it, and if we do not make sure that the part and that form are used properly. For example, in 2002, agricultural and fisheries strategies were adopted, and we are in 2018, so 16 years ago, a strategy was adopted which said that the CAPs were important, that this is important for the development of agriculture in Croatia, that it can be developed in this way and here, after that, we only had 16 years to have in the Parliament the adoption of one of these laws. So, declaratively, when we say the OPGs are important to us and essentially, we need a lot of water to pass under the Sava Bridge, namely, Sava under the Sava Bridge, to tell us what's important to us and what's important to us and what we're really trying to achieve. Similarly, when you look at the roles and the importance of the agency, then the OPGs, first the agency, were registered by 2 people, i.e. the agency. One basis was the support and the other was the sales of the product. And when it comes to support, I'm sure that if we were to start talking about the aids, which were the OPGs, in the way they were used, in the way that we have the result of these support, that we should really have one and I would say the whole day's debate, that we could see how much support there was, what they were used for, what OPGs were real OPGs, and that's one particular topic. With me in our legislation very rarely advocated, and I don't think it's a good method when you have those strict penalties, or those are the dragons' sentences, which, in the end, no one accepts or applies them. But to really make sure how much support the agency has given, for which the OPGs are, whether or not they've really been developing, is one particular topic of debate in this House. And he says you applied to the agency when you wanted to sell your products. We often also know personally and use this payphone and say in Croatia, which is not good, to go things slowly, that we should go faster, that there is no magic wand, so now all of a sudden it will be like this, and in a month we will only have healthy food that will be produced on our OPGs, it should be realistic. But look at the last 10 years, things have changed, look at the fairs, where we really have more and more products with our OPGs, we have them, of course, often thematic fairs, about Easter, about Christmas or something, but look at it and see that there are products and some other things, that young people have decided to produce something that they didn't normally, traditionally, I won't say normally, traditionally. No, I know, my younger son loves very much, very, very angry food, which is unusual in our family and I, there's one 2, 3 OPGs at which young people, so when I speak young people under 30 who work and at all these products that I don't know, chili, peppers and everything else and I, when the OPG fair is then I go around or when it's especially on Jelačić's salary and there I manage to buy anything for example. It's not even possible to buy in all our stores. So, some things have changed. Some step has been made, people have begun to deal with other occupations, some new occupations, and what we in this House need to order, we need to order and we need to support it. I'm on the line, which I gave my colleague from the Living Wall, telling a real case, a real story. What we have a problem in Croatia, we have a problem in Croatia, that we do not have people who will work. We don't have enough workforce and it's one topic of emigration, but the other topic is that it's a process that we're getting older, that we live longer, that young people decide on other things. Anyone who decides to continue to deal with agriculture absolutely needs to get all the support they can get. I often also use something from this pay phone that I will say this time, tickets on February 15, '68, only when you have a little time to go to the website of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and there is a link that is called, one house where you actually have all the cards and all the videos and you can see the video on February 15th of '68. Croatia and you can see the parallel footage that was 11 June 2011. It was all about legalization for us and seeing the houses that came into existence. And you see how houses actually spread at the expense of agricultural land. Look how it is there in '68. in one other way and another, Croatia was actually farmed and you can see that forests and forests spread at the expense of agricultural areas. And those are the facts. What happened to the farm didn't happen to us yesterday, it can't happen, and we don't have to open up a policy where it's her or her government. It was one process. The process in the world called the process of industrialization where people were leaving agricultural areas and dealing with agriculture, they went to cities because they seemed to be able to better resolve their existence there, they forgot about, in fact, their agricultural households. In agricultural households, the ageing population remained. When you go to Croatia and when you get a little out of the highway or out of the state roads and you go to the local roads, look at the fact, I always watch the house because it's part of my job and I'm still in the business. But you look at abandoned households. Therefore, support to anyone who wants to take a step there, who wants to return, who wants to do business. But really, we have things going on between us and things that we're not happy with. We at the GLAS and HSU club will support this law as we did in our first reading, and we will support it this time. In fact, this law also speaks in terms of the importance of the CAPs or family farms. This debate should be taken after the desire to get a better document and get as good a law as possible. Neither this law nor other laws should be viewed in a way that is carved into stone, so we have it carved forever. Laws that can be changed and that need to be changed and actually need to fit time and suit trends and what happens. And I think it's very important that we know what all of this on the OPG can be, that it can be the production of agricultural and food products. Production of non-food products and general use items on the OPG. The provision of catering, tourist and other services. So in the part where Croatia develops, not just with tourism by the sea. And the story is over that you can only sell the number of beautiful days or place for a towel on the beach. You know equally about the OPGs that a series of OPGs really developed and developed the provision of tourism and it became even destinations that became attractive. And then point 4 comes providing other content and activity on the OPGs. There every time you leave the other contents and activities open, of course, themes can be opened that are other content or activity, but I am not going to open that debate now to discuss what it is, but to discuss it affirmably. Of course, the CAPs cannot be discussed and it is difficult to discuss without a state of agriculture. Of course, every time this is a matter of course, it's actually a little depressing to you, when we talk about agriculture, we talk about a situation where we have abandoned agricultural land, where we have few people. However, the progress of each country is made by its people. Without people, there is no progress in the country, there is no progress in agriculture, there is no progress in the OPGs. We support that we have this law, so we don't think he will, so he's just done a little bit of hygiene in addition to it, but it's good to have, good to have at the level of the message where Croatia says the OPGs are important to us and we stand for it all together. However, the message from this pay phone should always be in Croatia, so the development of agriculture and the development of everything else depends on people. There's less and less of us, and there's less of a potential at all, but we need to take advantage of that potential. As in the story I told the anecdote there, when I gave the replica and said that he had made up his mind, so that young man was able to hire someone, to hire them seasonally with machines, of course we would solve things with machines because we would simply replace people not only in production, and the question is what production we have is, we would also replace them in agricultural production. However, there are some values and at these values Croatia should develop its agriculture on values and on tradition. And this OPG Act, we at the GLAS and HSU Club read exactly that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75073	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75074	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you're right when you say this is a topic and a law regarding a large number of Croatians and has enormous importance. When we look at both European and global scales, 97% of all EU agricultural economies can be characterized as family farms, so almost all of them. And they cover about 70% of EU agricultural land, of course the average size of that land is about 10 hectares. As long as corporate agriculture has 15 times the land area average. Otherwise, it's a big problem in the Republic of Croatia so many counties so mine have more particles than a hectare of agricultural land. What matters is what, you said what this law will have to study. He, in addition to having to define the OPG, must help reduce poverty and trust one topic that in you, since you are a woman who needs to open up, which is to remove gender differences. Of the 170 thousand OPGs in the Republic of Croatia, 120 thousand are bearers of men. And exactly the policy we need to lead is to give women more control over household incomes, a greater role in resource management, so in this case, the OPGs. So, this law is of paramount importance, if he's going to get results in practice, we'll just see. I personally believe he will suffer many more changes. It's good to bring, to define what OPG is, you know, it's hard to define. If you ask, why are many EU members not defined because it is difficult to define it because the OPG is not just a way of production, it is also a way of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75075	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75076	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Žagar, I was already afraid that we would – we did not want to get to gender ideology, but we did not come, so we will remain only at the OPGs and the importance of the OPG. I said in my debate that when you pass a law, you must know what the meaning and purpose of this law is. You don't just pass the law so we can have the lines we passed the law. I read this law in a way that reads a country's policy through this, let's say, in that country we have an OPG and a form through which we develop agriculture significantly because we want to develop further. But really, really, when you see a little bit of this number of OPGs that we have and that figure that in principle men are talking about being a traditional country and that when we're discussing a native ideology, it would be an example of what that means. But I hope that there will be more and more women in that change because more women are born, more women at the moment, so older women live longer than men, I'm talking to you about the data they are, and in the context of that, my question to Secretary of State Majdaku was why 56 years. For the past 56 years, it seems to me that in the context of that little while you watch demographics do, you live longer. It's been living longer than it was 10 years ago. What is predicted for 2030-2050 is actually that people live longer, then the fact that women live longer. Why is that so supposed to answer someone else, so maybe if these were 56 changed to something else, there might be more women, but I'm sure they'll be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75077	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75078	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I listened very carefully to you and you are proof that a man should not be some special expert, with all due respect, for agriculture or for a farmer to see the problems of agriculture. And you've been very well detecting a lot of things and in those fast 15 minutes as you've been saying, I've been trying to catch something and make a little reference to it all together. First of all, you were talking about the last time we brought a farming strategy in 2002. Here, whether it was meant to bring a new strategy or change it a little bit, it had to be done anyway. I think it's a crucial thing. We all agree together that this Law is not bad and it is good that this Law is made. Let's work this out. That it's going to have to change a lot more, and it's going to have to change a lot more, and it's true. But we also agree that nothing crucial will change in agriculture, unfortunately. You mentioned something small about incentives. I must agree with you, unfortunately, that these incentives were very much without results and without control. Unfortunately, we have spent literally billions of kuna on fostering agriculture and we have no concrete, clear results. That's what I'm sorry, what you and I as a layman and I as a layman notice, and we'd like to change that. But you're just as good and detecting the potency of the O.P.G. You said you were going to the fairs, that your goal was to shop at the fairs, and I'm doing it. Regardless, maybe even on a little OPG incentive, I think they've done a lot, a lot. That's where we should encourage them. I think that O.P.G. really has an extremely high potential. I'm not talking about that O.P.G. guy who doesn't have a single employee, those who do it for their own needs, but a lot of little O.P.G.s who can raise this farm to us. We have where, we have how, they have knowledge and will, but we need to help them here and you've detected it well, so the potential of the OPG exists, they just need institutions, we need the ministry to start helping them and they're really doing it all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75079	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75080	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Prelec, therefore, I usually draw your origins from Bjelovar. I was born and raised in Bjelovar. But my roots are from around Bjelovar and where we're from, and we're going to that grandfatherland, you see what's going on. So you're talking a little bit to these young people, say my cousin from another knee, was a big surprise to us when he decided to develop the O.P.G. He lives still in Bjelovar, but some 10-15km away he has a family, traditionally large estate and on that property he started with certain activities and proved to be good. And of course they're his, then his sons, regardless of the schools that ended up going on. And that's good. And we have to give everyone a chance, and we need to give the beauty of opportunity. OPG for your personal needs, excellent. Give him the opportunity to live decently from it and everyone will be pleased. The OPG decided to provide tourism. Perfect. It must be a destination of attraction. The O.P.G.'s still making something else. But when you came to that O.P.G. fair, at the beginning you had this particular type of product. Now that you've seen it in two or three years, once you see this glue of products that's getting wider and wider. The possibilities are getting wider and wider. What? It has been recognised that the market is looking for something new, to respond to the market, and therefore to this law, this is one of those laws that needs to be told and seen the affirmative part. I don't think he's gonna bring any big revolutions now. He can't bring it. But, affirmatively, it will be enough for some families to live decently, it will be enough for someone to make extra money, and we have achieved what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75081	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Dark-Taritash, for your debate, as your colleague said, I'm always happy to listen, even if we don't have to agree every time, this time I've agreed with almost everything. You're talking about abandoned houses, agricultural resources, empty villages, abandoned land, everything we have to do to bring agriculture back to life, that's all you've been saying, and now I could do it all over again for 10 minutes. It is also true that Croatia is old, that young people will not work on agriculture, and it will not work because agriculture does not bring them safe or otherwise no profit, so people are more likely to commit to other moments. We have another thing to say, we have today industrialization, computerization, mechanization, agricultural production, as we've never had. However, industrial agricultural production, per unit of surface, is now smaller than it was in the former Yugoslavia in the 1980s. What's the same problem we need to talk about? That's why I'm going to tell my colleague right now, that's why we should bring some kind of framework, a legislative, some law, where it's important to put these OPGs inside some frames, bring rules of play. OK, we have these little ones, they're for themselves, they're for their own production and these bigger ones that produce something more. I'm not for limiting them, I'm not for limiting them, but I'm the same for not only setting up OPGs so that they can report for incentives or other benefits, but to know exactly that the OPG has its own law and within the rules of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75083	The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75084	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Life doesn't start with us, life starts long ago, and there's gonna be someone else behind us to deal with. The same way when we talk about agriculture in Croatia, we should look at it, much, much broader, processes that were. I always look through my family and I encourage, that is, my roots are from one rich family that had a terrible lot of land, there for some others, before the 2nd World War, which was partly lost and everyone decided to go to town. We are above these households, that is, over those great economies that were, left by my grandfather and grandmother or someone else. And now it's actually an incentive that, that's why I mentioned my cousin from some other knee, who decided to go back there. And there he lives better, he has a better profit, he's getting a lot simpler than he's decided to do a job where he'd be average or bad. And actually, the point of this is, to return, to actually give the possibility that agriculture in Croatia and agricultural land is something that is our potential. Every country recognizes its potential. We can't say we'll dig gold when we don't have gold. We can't even say we don't know uranium when we don't have uranium. But we have agricultural land, that's our value, that's our potential, and that's something we need to think about further and see, how, in line with new ideas, with new technologies, in a new way, do it. We can never be grains, like cereals I don't know in the U.S. or in someone else, because we don't have that much space. But for some other things, we have space and it is therefore important to recognise the potential and I read this law only in the context of and support to the OPGs and that the OPG something organisational form through which we can identify and advance some of that potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75085	Thank you very much. Now we will go to the next Club of Representatives and this is that HDS, HSLS and HSSB on behalf of whom will speak the respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The rural economy, the grant, the estate, or whatever we want to call it is actually what we're talking about here today. In fact, the OPG of this modern time should be some modern name of that former rural economy. In that rural economy, there was always 1 boss, it was known whose last one was, and that's why it worked, and that's how it has to be here, regardless of that woman or husband, so either Grandpa or Grandma, it doesn't matter who it is, there were different cases, I don't get into the birth stuff. But in any case, that's what got lost in this young country, which is gone and we started looking for, the rural economies as such, stopped talking about them, after 25.6 years we here today have a final proposal of the OPG Act that we will believe as I said in the first reading, to adopt with probably a large number of votes, or, I didn't quite notice in the discussions of some concrete remarks on this proposed law. I am pleased that the proposer of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this time between the two readings, has actually very reasonablely accepted a number of proposals made in the first reading and that the law in that section has been improved, as we understand, as we all do, that, after its observation, there will certainly be plenty of remarks, that there will certainly be problems, because it will have to be processed, congratulated and changed. For me, this rural economy or OPG is not just a place of production at all, but it is a place of life, a place of preservation and we through this law must also look at it. What has been done and accepted in art. 14. that rural tourism can therefore negotiate the purchase of supplies and products from other OPGs in the area, the environment, is a great thing and it is one step in my opinion, a guideline where we must proceed with the extension and upgrade of this law. So the merger is something that is ahead of us, something that is behind us and that we have missed and that has caused a large number of these rural economies to die, and that is the fact that agricultural production has suffered. In this way it actually shows how and where it is going, in which direction and in this debate when we talk about a law that I have already said will support our club, I want to actually talk about this future path, about future time and... Some suggestions, some ideas to go on, what to do, not to stay this time we got the Law on the OPGs, we got the OPGs, the OPGs are very proud, happy that they got their law and in nature nothing new happened to them now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think there's a big job in front of us how now these people who have decided to live in the country or work in the country, how to help them. How to organize them. How to help them organise production, how to help them sell products, which is the most important thing. How to protect them on a market that is inexorable. Various goods will continue to come, various foods, that is always the case, we are in an open market in Europe, in the world market, and there is no dispute that will come all. In my view, it is necessary to make an extra great effort that may not be so great, more willful, the matter of access to the cooperation of the OPG, the local self-government unit, the regional self-government unit, or the county, the ministry, the Governments create concepts of the establishment of agro-centre or agro-incubator or whatever we call them by various parts of Croatia and thus bring people together in their production, in the organization of buying-in and organisation of plasmas. And then we'll get to that final goal where we talk all the time and listen to me for as long as I've known about myself. Blue and green Croatia, so let's take another step, let's organize these people both in the south and in the north, in central Croatia, in the east and start organizing and making these exchanges, I say, with the help of local self-government, with the help of the county. And, of course, with blessing and support, and also financial support from the government of the Republic of Croatia and the rest of the ministry. And one ministry and the other, which is the Ministry of Tourism, which is very important, very important in this segment. Then you could actually say that we can be completely satisfied with the Law on the OPGs and that we have taken the right step, the right path towards preserving life in rural areas, producing domestic food and the rest of one part of the people in the Republic of Croatia. So, the merger, the next step, without it there's nothing, I repeat, this part of the country's tourism, an excellent guideline in which to go. There's been a lot of talk here about the place of residence, the place of residence, who can, how he can be the holder of the O.P.G. There's no slow going on here for me. It's either a residence or a permanent residence. So there is no great wisdom, but unfortunately, in this case, we are a member of the EU, we must respect European laws, and in this part we have limits, of course. The economic size of the OPG is worth more than 3,000 euros, which practically enters the income tax or profit tax system. I personally asked the secretary of state to explain it to me a little bit, he explained things to me, it's clear to me now, and I think it's good that maybe still in your address a little bit for the public, for people who won't understand it that much, to explain what it is because definitely someone who has such an economic value, it may be that they will have a income of 100 000 kuna or maybe more, and someone may have as much as 3,000 euros on their holding but in any case they have to find a model to stimulate people to have OPGs, not to tax them at the same time, to give them a reward in releasing certain taxes in order to stay there at all, as they have in the extreme case of Austrians or some neighbouring countries that are developed, where they stimulate life in the village and staying in the village. So in this work, I think some other laws need to find solutions to stimulate it. For example, in that part of taxation or paying taxes for students, students can earn 60 600 kuna a year without paying taxes. So let's not let it happen that the O.P.G. has no idea, 20,000 kuna, so he'll pay taxes and be a taxpayer for income tax and income tax. I think that there should be some measures to be found as one stimulant and thus give our contribution to the remnant of people in agricultural economies, the remnant of people in all parts of Croatia. Article 28 has already been mentioned many times, it is said about a member of the OPG, that a member of the OPG may be a full-time and business person, on the other hand, we have an OPG holder who must, of course, be a full-age and business person. Here I really propose to the Proposer as many have already suggested before me and will probably, later on, delete the law, from Article 28 of this and the business-friendly person as a member of the household. Namely, what's this about? A family can have a child with developmental difficulties who will grow up to be an adult. This adult can do excellent work and find himself even as a rehabilitating way to be a member of the OPG, and she will not, realistically, be treated as a business capable person. Why did you put a limit where there was no need? I think it's better if I suggest it myself, so that part is thrown out of this article, from this item, and we've solved such a problem. Here's to these few remarks, these few suggestions that I make mean we support the adoption of this law. We ask that you care that people are not really taxed, that people who live and work on the OPGs are rewarded and not punished. Let's not put aside all those bureaucratic problems that we have in the Republic of Croatia because we're a re-negotiated state to add to certain burdens because tomorrow we're going to have these people as tenants in cities, people looking for jobs, they're going to be at the Employment Office. We better give them stimulation and encourage them to stay on their property, to live in their environments where their hearth is and thus to keep that space, but we also keep families in our rural economies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75087	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75088	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Hrg, here you have mentioned what has been said for years since the beginning of Croatia blue and green Croatia, an attempt to connect what we all who are engaged in agriculture believe that this is how we will perform our goods. But what happened on the Adriatic coast. The hotels were purchased by foreigners who had interest in bringing their goods to the Republic of Croatia, selling them through their tourist facilities and very difficult to bring such a situation back to life in the first place. Unfortunately. Everyone would be happy if she could. On the other hand, there was no development in Croatia of shopping centres. Here, as a vegetable producer, I personally witness the problem of production. You can't go into some big production to be interesting on the market because you don't know what to do with that stuff. You have no one to negotiate such production with. So we should develop centres where all the goods produced on the OPGs would be collected and distributed from there and then perhaps in that way become interesting on the Adriatic coast and partly. But unfortunately that doesn't work, there's no interest in it, because it's obviously easier to find goods on the European market that are offered, which is packed, which is in the offer as much as you want them for the size of this or that. You just say what you want and it's delivered to you. Unfortunately, the quality goods produced on Croatian OPGs are minors in the range of ecological goods coming from Europe. She doesn't find a way. Too little production, unorganised, and that's what the ministry should deal with, it would be the biggest incentive for manufacturers to create such centres that would care about selling their goods, and their task is to work on the OPG, to produce, not to be a poisoner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75089	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75090	Comrade Lenart, you're a manufacturer and you know it well. And you yourself said in your replica that it is very difficult to find a way to a market and place a product. And that's exactly what I was talking about. So, without such agrocentres or how we're going to call them and including local self-government, regional and state into this merger of people where we're going to organize production and organize placement and purchase products there's no way that something more significant will happen. This part when you were talking about blue and green Croatia it has already become a flossule I can never forget the one time you remember well, we were party colleagues when two ministers were in my present party. One was in agriculture, one was in tourism. When they couldn't agree on who would be the legislator of the law to sort this thing out. Here's our reality, that's our reality. And if this with distribution centres, i.e. agrocentres, could be done is evidence of Zagreb County, Mr. Kožic as mayor started the project with his team several years ago. They have a distribution center today, and that's a good example of what to do. There we need to take a little look at it and pass it on to other productions, to other types of products throughout Croatia and then provide and form similar centres in Dalmatia that will do the same thing, that will cooperate together and place it to the final consumers, to tourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75091	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, you mentioned the word association several times and you doubted 3,000 euros of SO or a multi-border OPG. That I would like to comment on the same thing. The purpose of this law was to encourage the OPG to restructure, precisely to pool and use financial instruments, and in particular to accept funds from the European Funds. The proposer is aware that around 89,000 OPGs will have small resources and intended other measures to enable fiscal redundancies in the part of compulsory contributions to pension and health insurance and taxes. The law gives the possibility to form a joint OPG and contract joint production and it protects the OPGs whose economic size of the SO is less than 3000 euros, that their established rights are not diminished and now at the end of the ok it could have been 5,000, maybe it could have been. I'm allowed to say this is in the bandages we're about to do this law, we'll see which direction the law will go when it's implemented itself on the ground and maybe later we'll change that item ok.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75093	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75094	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, we always agree on these things and there's no obstacle, but it's good to do a little more explaining what you're saying, especially with regard to that 3,000-euro lower limit. We all know that if the border were higher, in principle, that a large number of OPGs would fall out of that system, that they could not be introduced as OPGs at all, and that is the reason. That's why what you were saying, what I was saying, and what I expect the Secretary of State to say in his presentation here, is very important to highlight and send a message to people who are possible instruments and who are possible legal means to allow them not to be, not to realize that they will be taxed if they have 20,000 kuna per year, that at the same time they will pay income tax or ultimately profit tax. And I repeat, on the other hand, having nothing against student earnings, I'm absolutely up for it. It's not normal for us to have a situation like this here, and students can make 60,600 kuna without paying taxes. So if we want to stimulate survival in the country, if we want to stimulate that domestic production, if we want to stimulate that rural economy. And association in itself is necessary, but I keep saying, it won't happen if it doesn't involve the system, it won't. People themselves cannot join together, they will not join together, only the system can unite them, and in this they can make a great contribution to those larger systems, larger producers that can gather less around them. But that way, if it goes like this, then we can achieve some good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75095	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfierev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75096	Thank you, Vice President. He's a colleague of the House. So here are two things, one in principle mentioned a lot that after the adoption of this law should be done, and then in that sense I ask myself and you, and others, to what extent is one strict normisation, one legal normation will contribute to developing such a significant activity, and we say that the OPG and this activity is of strategic importance for Croatia? Knowing that somewhere over 160,000 PAGs have been registered that in the last four years we have lost more than 20,000 OPGs, but also that over 60,000 OPGs are older than carriers over 65 years of age. Now how is this one stricter one legal or legal normation going to contribute precisely to all the things that you said were necessary to do alone after the law was passed? The second thing, I want to give my support here, because I'm going to talk about it myself, which is that we should definitely remove from the legal provisions business ability as a limiting feature, and it's also about the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where it is explicitly stated that there is no more complete incompetence, business incompetence, but only partially and increasingly it's about the rights of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75097	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75098	Thank you very much. Well, esteemed colleagues, we've been wandering around all these years about the O.P.G. It was in this assembly in various terms of various statements, so one said it needed the OPG so it didn't work out, the other said that the OPGs didn't seem to be of any interest to us that the big system should be developed, some couldn't agree. In principle, it is difficult to find any political option in the assembly that does not bear a sin for the situation, it is difficult to find. Maybe someone who didn't exist at that time or maybe he wasn't in some party because today we have these situations, we have new groups, new options, but they're people who were out there somewhere. So we have one situation behind us. I always say this, let's take what's behind us, analyze those mistakes, go do something better, something new, go in some direction. Bureaucratisation unfortunately kills us all the time and she's everywhere. And that's why I repeat and again I don't know which time, so I need to do institutional support in these OPG operations that will help them, which will do these things for them, they will produce well. And let's not make up anything special, it used to be those cooperatives, not those cooperatives that took people's land, but those cooperatives where people themselves came into these cooperatives and organized production. They were some, we called it alliances or something they bought from people all the products. Well, my God, let's put it on the table a little bit, let's make it something modern this time and run that thing again. I am saying this law is the basis for this, with certainly many other things that will have to be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75099	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Allen Prelec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75100	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates. Well, here we are in the SDP reading this bill and we have to admit that we have no major objections to this law. I'll have a few things I'd change. I'll talk about that later. But the most important thing I would like to suggest here is that this is the first time we have the Law on OPGs in the Croatian Parliament. It is definitely proof that here is the Minister of Agriculture and his associates think that agriculture is a possibility in Croatia, it is definitely so. It is commendable, and I see that every time things come about agriculture that, with a lot of attention and well-meaning, this law has been made and the Law on Agricultural Land and all those laws that have been so far. However, what I want to point out to us is not going to be better if this law is even better than this now, and we're going to try to fix it. The law won't be, there won't be a state of agriculture better if we pass not knowing what kind of agricultural land law. We simply above all, here, and we believe in the SDP that we should make a strategy for the development of agriculture in Croatia. The last strategy that was made was made in 2002. Whether she's good or bad in any case needs to be changed, circumstances have changed. Should more attention be given to the O.P.G.? You should. Here in the debate we talked about how the OPGs really have great potential. But here, I'd say a few facts about what we want with the CAP and what we want from agriculture. First of all, we want to produce enough food for the needs of all Croats. Is that what we're gonna do with this law? He won't. We want to have surpluses here in Croatia and to place these surpluses either in tourism or in export. Are we going to do this with this law? We won't. What I would like to mention is what I would like to say when we do the Agriculture Act to activate all agricultural land in Croatia, which I would say in some areas and 50% unused and abandoned. Are we gonna do this with this law? We won't. So anyway, here I would like to be well-intentioned here and with my proposal and a proposal from my colleagues from the club to contribute to the fact that agriculture has a better status and a better situation in Croatia. So will he? I don't know. It is possible to evaluate this law in six months or in two, three years when we see if it will be any effect. The situation in agriculture today is such that we import 2.6 billion euros in agricultural products. Our exports are 1.36 billion euros. That's where my colleague used to say we have 10 billion imports. That's not true. So this is the exact data as far as I know, you deny me. So we have imports of 2.2 billion euros and it has grown by 13% over the last few years and exports have increased by 11%. So we keep talking, we keep talking here in the Croatian Parliament that the situation is bad and that both the right and left agree that the situation in agriculture is not good. But here's imports are growing more and more, and the OPG has potential, and agriculture has potential. We like to say that Croatia is one god of state, we have the sea, we have the cereal, we have everything we need. However, Croatians do not only produce agricultural products for their own purposes. Who's to blame? I'd say everyone, everyone here, all the farmers are not aggressive enough, all the OPGs. But here it is for us to pass laws to put agriculture in one position and not be a case, but to be a cornerstone of the development of the Republic of Croatia. No one lives in the illusion that Croatia will live on agriculture. God forbid we live. No one can talk about just living off tourism, but partly agriculture that will place its products through tourism, that's what we want. What bothers me too in this together and what should be defined from the Agriculture Strategy is, we need to see that the production of agricultural products depends on the regions. That should also be defined by strategy. In Croatia, not everyone can produce everything. We know that in Dalmatia we can produce Mandarins, that in Slavonia we can produce wheat, that in one continental part we can produce some agricultural products, but we can't all produce all of them. This must be defined by the Agriculture Development Strategy. We have to make plans. It cannot happen that we have constant years of surpluses, one and the same surpluses of agricultural products in Croatia, and most of the agricultural products are imported. So let's do it planically, so we know what's being produced and what we need. Plasman. It is a special problem in the Croatian state. Farmers have a problem with the plasma. The fact that there's a colleague, Hrg, was also talking about cooperatives. Not to those cooperatives, like he said, who took the land, but to cooperatives that would help farmers place their agricultural products. OPGs, farmers can't deal with bureaucratic matters. They must produce food, and the state must help with its various ways to ensure their placement, that this is a correct price, that they are protected. Now, that's a country that's going to take care of its agriculture. Incentives. In Croatia, we spent literally billions of kuna in promoting agriculture. There were various machinations, interests, interest groups, and what was the result? The result is that today we do not produce enough agricultural products or for our own purposes. That has to change. I also expected this OPG law to be part of the wording and encouragement. And there isn't. What bothers farmers too. I live in one space not far from Zagreb, we still have a lot of OPGs. There are some people dealing with agriculture for their own needs, but what I hear from them is the same problem, which they don't know how to place, how to know in advance which products they can place. In that case, I think the state would have to do more, as a farmer if he knew before he was sown whether he would place his product. There would be a lot of help if a farmer really knew what he was getting into. It happens that, here in Slavonia, the children are excess, and on the other hand, we import thousands of trucks of pork from Hungary. It's something inadmissible. In what way the state can simply make sure that this farmer who works, works hard, knows how to place his product. There's a special story in livestock. I in my environment have a man who is one of the better milk producers in the Republic of Croatia. He had milk for years and placed it in Dukat. Of that placement in Dukat he could barely survive or we could say, he lived at one minimum for years. His O.P.G. blossomed today. Why? He places his milk directly. Over milk, he's got a siren, he's got dairy. That's something to encourage. This is the future of Croatian livestock, and here, I don't know by any chance, who helped him decide to go his own way and not to place milk but to process it, he succeeded. These are positive examples in Croatia, but unfortunately we have examples where a thousand cattlemen have failed. So that's where a significant step should be made to help all these farmers. Here, I say this law is not bad. I don't see much of a problem with that O.P.G. Act. However, as I have already said, I will be able to finally say whether this Law is good or bad for 6 months or 2 years. I know what today is the result of all these laws that we passed in the Parliament, which is that we have abandoned villages, that we import more and more, that we have more and more unprocessed agricultural land, that our incentives are catastrophic, but literally catastrophic, that in the assignment of the state country we have an extremely many irregularities. That's the result of all the laws we've passed in the Parliament. That has to change. For better Croatia, for farmers and for all those who live here. And then probably young people won't go abroad and ask for bread out there, and there's plenty of it here, and that's all we need to do is regulate it well enough and pass laws worth respecting and what people will say when we pass the law here is the law that goes towards contributing to Croatia's development. Unfortunately today, instead of a good situation in agriculture, we have chaos in production, processing, distribution and payment. But in order not to just be a criticism, I will specifically say a few things that here, in this law, would change. Article 11(2) – no water is mentioned here. So we're talking about production resources other than those mentioned in Article 1 of this article, especially land, plantation and livestock. Where are those O.P.G.s that make, in fact, grow fish? No water surfaces. I'd add water surfaces here. Further, Art. 13th century 1, says the provision of catering, tourist and other services at the OPG, I would add out of the OPG. Why shouldn't some OPGs be able to provide a specific tourist service with a clear, consensual agreement of a local self-government unit at some of their events? I don't think we should limit them here. I'll make a concrete amendment and I'll suggest it. It is a well-intentioned proposal and I believe that it should be accepted because the OPGs should not be restricted. As far as employment is concerned, and as far as placements are concerned, but literally, they need to be stimulated, they need to be helped. Furthermore, colleagues have spoken here and have advocated that red tape should be reduced. I absolutely agree with them. Reduce red tape, farmers are here to produce, not to deal with administrative matters, that they have to go to courses to be able to place their product and to give reports, and from the report is a pile of paper. Agrokor. The theme of Agrokora is a special topic. Unfortunately, this Agrokor guessed that a number of OPGs had failed. He was a monopolistly large system created by politics. So, we can say that politics has also culminated in the fact that the current situation in agriculture is extremely bad. Because of Agrokor, many producers of agricultural products, cattlemen, young and small OPGs have failed, and that's something that should not be allowed again, and all in all, here's what the situation is, we'll see. My colleague also talked about cooperatives. Yes, cooperatives should be encouraged in which way, this is what the profession will say, but not to run away from anything that may have been good in a previous system. That's something I wanted to share with you fellow MPs and I see that there have been really quality discussions. The SDP Club will support this Final Proposal for a Law on the CAP, will give its amendments and hope that the situation in agriculture will be better than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75101	Thank you very much. Here, it's nice to hear that we have a lot of constructive remarks and we all think that agriculture is very important but I'm sorry that only 10% of us are sitting here in the hall and everyone swears that agriculture is very important. But let's go to the replicas. He's the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75102	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Prelec, you have touched more important things in your debate, but it seems to me somehow to single out the most important imports, importing agricultural products. That's what it is, the structure of that import shows that something really is wrong with our agriculture. So here's only one piece of information, in the first nine months of last year we imported pork 60 thousand 841 tons and now watch this, bread, pastries and cakes 110 thousand 731 tons. Animal feeds are 16 thousand 97 tonnes. What is significant is that in those 9 months, 108 thousand tonnes of soybeans were exported to the Republic of Serbia. For the Republic of Serbia, this is a wonderful piece of information because these 108 thousand tonnes of soybeans will be processed into soy juice and will likely return it to the Republic of Croatia later as food for cattle. You mentioned it, there, I didn't, I have to admit I live in the country, I was born in the country, I hope I die in the country, somehow every day in conversation with the OPG, I'm not an OPG, so then maybe someone can resent me, you're saying maybe some things in my mind, but when I listen to people then notice that there's actually danger and that's the biggest delusion for all of us. We've had, we've got production, we can, our farmers have tradition and today they can produce. But where are we scheduled? We've scheduled processing facilities. And when you talk about strategy, it's impossible to do a strategy in agriculture if you don't base it on a strategy that will later include the processing of these products as some kind of final product. And in that sense, I also mentioned cooperatives because producers have to come together in order to be competitive, to be in production, in distribution and in supply. And that's why I suggested one amendment that might make it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75103	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75104	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Sagar, if I were talking about imports, that's what worries me the most, and I specifically said 2.2 billion euros we have imports and we have 1.36% of the billion exports. But what worries me most is that imports grew by 13% and exports grew by 11%. So these imports will increase more and more every day. That's disturbing. We all say, I say, Croatia has great potential, the OPGs have great potential, we have enough farmland, unfortunately we have more and more unprocessable land and still imports are growing. You mentioned pork. Here we know that Slavons have extra pork in Slavonia and we import pork from Hungary or from other countries. You were talking about exporting soybeans to Serbia, we'll probably reprocess soybeans back from Serbia. Now there's the point of the strategy, so we have to define what we need in agriculture so that farmers can turn to what products we need to produce and not to produce the wheat that we're going to end up exporting and we don't have enough of those products that we need. So that's the point, so let's keep stressing, let's make a strategy of agricultural production that farmers know what to produce. The incentive system too, that's important because we give a boost to corn and wheat, but I don't think it makes any sense and I say, it needs to be arranged, a new strategy needs to be regulated, and then there's going to be a better situation than today and maybe Slavonia won't move out, maybe young people from Slavonia won't move out anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75105	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75106	Thank you very much. A colleague, currently in this envisaged Law on the OPG, traditionally means the practice and survival of the village itself, says the family is the fact that in this proposed law that the parties will be, a foreign person, be able to, i.e. Croatian citizens will be in a discriminatory position towards them. It is enough for foreigners to have a residence and a Croatian citizen, if he has a residence, will not be able to open the OPG. And who do we work for? Are we working on an OPG for foreigners, but when we have allowed the Law, recently, on agricultural land by 2020, it is possible to sell land to natural and legal persons until it is not possible in Hungary. Which means Hungary can do it in Croatia. By evicting Slavonia and peasants with a targeted policy and now targeted by policy, we give foreigners and this Law on OPG advantages because a stranger should not have meanings, only you should have a stay and a Croatian citizen should not have a residence, and a Croatian citizen must have a residence to open the OPG. So, along with the administrative barriers, while he is a discriminated Croatian citizen, a Croatian peasant, with sanctions provided for more than he can produce annually, of course interest is obviously in the minister and I'm sorry he didn't come here and it's embarrassing that he didn't come because that law was mentioned. So this is after the sale of land, the Law on Agricultural Land and this is now that we give advantage to foreigners, the last nail in the coffin, not the OPG, but the villages. Here's your answer to this because I see you've supported it, so it's amazing to me, we're going to have amendments to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75107	The answer of the respected representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75108	My colleague, unfortunately, I must agree with you. It turns out the Hungarians love Hungary more than we Croatians love Croatia. That's right. Hungarians pass laws and say we will no longer obey the EU and their directives, we are passing our laws that are for the betterment of the Hungarian state. Unfortunately, we listen to very many directives, we adapt to EU laws and that is something that is not good. Patriotism should have a foothold in each of these laws, both on agriculture and on tourism, on interest and on everything expensive. Unfortunately, we don't do that anymore. Croatia's interests should be beyond all interests. I have the impression more than once that we are doing laws and adapting to the EU, which is what we are, we are part of the family of the EU, but not post-traumatic. What happened to the Hungarians who passed the laws on their own? Nothing, they're fighting with the EU but they're still protecting their manufacturer, protecting their farmer, protecting their land, protecting their borders. And we don't do that. Do they love Hungary more than we love Croatia? I don't think so. So here's my colleague Bulj, I agree with you, these are some things that maybe the law should change, I can't get into that story because I just don't know if it's possible, but if possible, I absolutely agree on it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75109	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75110	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Prelec, in one part you mentioned that not everyone should actually produce all of them. I think the give has already matured everyone that there are precise positions, areas where some production is justified, where one uniting position should be created where a particular product will be much easier to produce, where it will be easier to form a market. What we have today is actually a reverse situation. All over Croatia, everything is produced where climate is possible. And then, of course, it's very much to go to the market when someone where you'd like to, for example. In a particular area there is an area where the production of potatoes is stable, where it really has quality and can be offered, improved, on the other hand anyone can produce it and sell as much as possible, but whether it is a strategic definition of Croatian production and there is what we suffer, that we have not defined where we want to encourage, where the best conditions are to create profit, that these producers are creating a profit that will long help them, of course we will never prevent someone but where it is best, help. So basically it's one side and the other side I wanted to say that actually everyone should have access to our products and that's that market part and that's why our criticism of this law, it's technically. You'll support it, there's no terrible negativity in it, administratively it'll put a little bit of a burden on it, but the bigger problem for me is that it doesn't contribute to the development of that OPG, that this OPG sees in it when it reads it and says it, I have the benefit of this, that, cumulatively through its activities. So what is it, then we put ourselves in a position to go back to laws that are technically... whether that's the purpose of the number of laws, whether that's how we're going to pass laws to make them, that's why I said, the two main advantages could have been envisaged in other laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75111	The answer of the respected representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75112	That's right, colleague Panenic, I agree. At first, I said that this law would not bring any particular good to agriculture, it would not harm agriculture, I'll be honest with you, that's how it is. But here it is, we will support it purely out of intent not to be against and to help people who care about agriculture, to make it better. I'll still go back to what you said at first, we can't all produce. When I spoke, I was saying that agricultural production is important for the regions. It's not the same if we have somewhere, we don't all have the same soil composition, we don't have the same climate, we don't have the same agricultural areas, we don't have the same agricultural areas, the size of the agricultural areas, and that's why I mentioned immediately that we need to make that agricultural development strategy in Croatia because it all depends on which region we can produce. I'm traveling here and there, I've been across countries of Europe and many fewer countries, much less countries than ours, with much less quality soils and smaller agricultural surfaces, good products for their own needs. If you're going to Portugal, I haven't been to Portugal, told me a colleague, an untransparent area under the plastics. They produce tomatoes, cucumbers for their own needs and for export. Croatia has far more agricultural areas than Portugal. But obviously they have a better strategy, that's what we have to insist on in the agricultural strategy, to see what is worth producing in Croatia and what we need. And then the situation in agriculture will be better than the current situation where we import without order and without rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75113	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75114	Thank you, dear Vice President. You've well noticed that it's a great interest in agriculture and very few of us are here, so here I am, if I can comfort you a little bit, in the entire Parliament I think I'm the only peasant i.e., agricultural producer so that we're 100% present here in this debate. Comrade Prelec, you discussed well in your debate, you said a lot, you mentioned one sentence that we have surplus products in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately in Croatia we have enough production perhaps in 2 or 3 products, we remain disabled and therefore we have so much imports, but also because Croatia has allowed so many foreign centres and has not conditioned them fair trade practice, i.e. that must be bought and sold there Croatian products. What is in agricultural production, unfortunately, is the only unknown in that uncertainty are inputs, i.e. the price of re-compromisation, fuel, machinery and everything you invest in production. Everything else is unknown, the price at which you will sell, to which you will sell, weather, or weather conditions at the time of climate diameters that cause a lot of problems for agricultural production and whether you will depend on some people who will allow or not allow some goods to enter. Here, today mentioned often soy, which has been sold in Serbia, unfortunately, Serbia has found its interest here because of some of the contracts they had, so we soybeans have been given a slightly better price this year, but we, too, in our soyara, can rework soybeans that are not GMOs and make a significant profit out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75115	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75116	You're right, when you say foreign centres have most of their foreign products in agriculture. If you enter Kaufland, Lidl or other supply centres, and I still buy in Konzum, because I think it is a Croatian store, I don't know, is it Croatian and will it be Croatian, but in Konzum and Lidl, you have almost no Croatian products, how to prevent it? And can we even stop it? I'm no expert on that, but here, perhaps the Secretary of State could help us with that, I always give for the example of Hungarians who are here protecting their production, Europe resents it, and what is happening? Nothing. They're still protecting their production. Furthermore, you said that farmers also don't know who and at what price they place it, that's what I was saying in the debate, and that's very important. Because if a farmer starts with some agricultural production and doesn't know if he'll have someone to sell to after the world, that's the problem. There are farmers, fruit farmers, who throw apples or share apples, and then, on the other hand, we import apples at a higher price or at a lower price and with a significantly lower quality. This is what we lack, strategy or not, whether it may be a problem for the agricultural lobby, importers, who are the best to import agricultural products themselves, which are less quality but have a higher profit than to buy from our OPGs that have better quality and controlled production, but this is so, it is obviously Croatian reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75117	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I have listened to your debate, and what has forced me to replicate you, one thing perhaps we should specifically mention, and in defining the final price of agricultural products, these are transfer prices. I don't know how much you know, and you know for a fact that unfortunately on the Croatian retail market, about 70% are foreigners, so it can be defined, if about 30% had a Consum, now we'll see what it's going to be like in that second, what it's going to look like. And if we know that most of these trade chains, which have done business in the Republic of Croatia in the last 10 years, have done business with their losses. The issue of transfer prices is raised, and we know that most of these products, which they sell in their chains, are, in fact, most foreign products, we know about Lidl and others, how dominated these agricultural products from imports are. And then the question arises, purely economic calculations, as it is possible for someone to produce the goods I don't know in Germany or France, to bring them here to Croatia, and then it's three times cheaper than our OPG or agricultural, and then that chain of commerce achieves a tax loss and ultimately everything under cover, that's all the market. And if the state tries to intervene or tries to point it out, then this neoliberal one will come up and say, it needs market mechanisms, that market, that's the competition, that's what this is, and finally behind that are hiding hidden prices hidden from those farmers' transfer incentives. And when only the question of economic logic, of such a transfer, of certain times, and if ours went to sell here in France, they would see how much that price would come from the kuna there, how much would come to France. However, and here I just wanted to point out, it is certainly a question of what you have defined, a matter of transfer prices. The issue of transfer prices at which products, at which prices are sold and at what... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75119	The answer of the respected representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75120	Yes, my colleague, you said well 70% of the party's holding, and 30% of us held "we and Konzum" that Konzum would continue to be Croatian and whether it was Croatian at all, since then. I'm going to say one drastic example, and you're talking about transfer prices. What concerns me, and what happens here in Croatia, we have so far had one factory of fresher yeast production in the Sava Marof, 140 years of tradition, 140 years of tradition. A few years ago, that factory was bought by a French chain... which produces the same fresher yeast in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, we've been reading in the papers for a while, and I know, because he's in my area, he shuts down that factory. But what's the worst thing about it together, why is it closing? Not because it's not worth producing, because that factory was profitable, so I know for sure. The factory was profitable, he shuts down that factory because it will now import Croatia's fresh yeast from Hungary and what is the worst in all of this he is looking for a bigger profit. That's what foreigners do from Croatia. El Dorado. They can do anything. They bought a factory in the Sava Marof, they'll close 140 years of tradition, they'll close to get a better profit and we'll import it from Hungary. Before that, they bought a factory in Koprivnica and if they shut down before, I don't know, 7-8 years ago. They also bought it to shut it down. In the area of the former Yugoslavia there were seven or eight yeast factories. Today, so with the closure of the Sava Marof, there won't be any. That's what's waiting for us in the future. The foreigners will buy us, lock us up, and here we'll be just a distribution center. And maybe there's no more consum, but he's called some kind of, I don't know, Otto or I don't know, something. It's terrible and it's a tragedy of the Croatian congregation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75121	Thank you very much. We will now go to the next club of representatives, which is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75122	Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, therefore, we are talking about the Law on the OPG which, by the way, has, by the way, been very much involved with the suggestions given by the Committee on Agriculture, which is certainly good and commendable. Croatia will therefore be one of the few EU member states that will give an OPG definition. The aim of the adoption of this Act is to identify the CAP as a recognizable organisational form of agriculture in which the economic activities of agriculture and related supplementary activities are carried out and therefore, with a view to obtaining income or obtaining the production or sale of products, by providing services on the market. Most EU Member States do not have specific laws laying down the OPG. So let's say, in Austria, in a country where our many, therefore, our farmers often compare, this question is actually regulated in nine laws. The German legislation also recognises not the OPG, but the agricultural holding that divides into as many as 3 groups, depending on their legal form. We conclude from all of this that some countries where farming is quite profitable do not have a specific law on the CAP, while in others they exist, but even that fact is not a guarantee, therefore, of some agrarian success. What we lack is what we are missing, and what is said several times today, is the adoption of a strategy for the development of agriculture, but therefore, it would be more practical today to talk about a strategy for the development of agriculture, but which would be in line with the times in which we live, and only then might we talk about the Law on the CAP. The reasons for the adoption of the OPG are therefore, in one place we have the rights and obligations of the OPGs. The intensity is, secondly, the reason why it is arranged through the OPG register, possibly and prevents possible abuses that have occurred so far, so using the Benefit that comes with the OPG status, therefore, which is the failure to pay contributions, the absence of the obligation to make an account and so on. There have been frequent situations of abuse. The third advantage, therefore, is the need to indicate in the OPG register what is produced by each individual OPG. So when someone says they've been destroyed by ice, they'll be able to see if they really had that culture they're looking for and report damage. At the same time, we believe that the benefits will be that they will be able to get the necessary information for the damages. So, what's the OPG's offering last year and how much he sold. The OPG’s statement as to whether or not agricultural or secondary activities will cost them nothing. The OPGs will gradually focus on professionalising and developing their own capacities and production in the provision of services. The advantages that this Law has and which should be commended are those which, therefore, relate to home, therefore, to a house that will not be subject to enforcement, as well as the necessary production resources necessary to carry out economic activity and agriculture, as the main source of the means of life. Therefore, there is no enforcement of the property in which the OPG Act resides will separate the market producers from those who produce for themselves. The law will separate farmers from real farmers, and we think it's important. In one of the items of the Law, it is very important to meet small farmers, so they are given the opportunity to engage relatives in seasonal and occasional jobs without the obligation to have a working relationship. A good first step that will enable, therefore, that the OPG is different from other economic operators and will help regulate the market for agricultural and food products. One of the advantages is the continued reduction of administrative and fiscal barriers that slow down the development of the CAP, as well as their easier access to the market and EU funds. And first of all, in a way that categorizes them to those who produce for themselves and those who produce for the market. Now, these are the two things we consider questionable, and I'd say something about them. The OPGs we've been in contact with have warned us, therefore, of the disputed article. 15. which speaks of a natural person who, in order to carry out the economic activity of agriculture, has an economic size greater than the kuna equivalent expressed in a foreign currency of EUR 3000, becoming a taxpayer of income tax or profit tax. I think it is necessary to raise the level of economic size of the economy that would be exceptional, i.e. to raise it to an amount of 6-8 thousand euros. The current size of 3000 euros is one hectare of corn and 15 sheep. Or one hectare of corn and one cow. And we certainly think it's too small. It should be pointed out that SO is not a profit of the agricultural economy, but only an economic result, which is calculated, as an assumed income without expenditure. It is only the economic volume of production, the proposed 3,000 euros is too little for even hobbyists and the OPG should still be sustainable. So we're going to get into a situation where a manufacturer that has, say, four carnivores crosses the value of SO 3,000 euros. The manufacturer who produces 4 hectares of corn crosses SO 3,000. Manufacturer 1 hectare of vegetables also exceeds that amount. The olive producer at 1 hectare has more than that amount. The gain of such economies can therefore be expressed in several thousand kunas. And now it is justifiable whether we will burden them all with paying contributions to pension and health, labour injuries, employment and others. So it's not at all stimulating for these agricultural producers that we're talking about. I add, therefore, that we will burden them and certainly that this intensity for the OPGs is not good and, in that sense, the SDSS Representatives Club will definitely submit an amendment to this provision. The second problem, which has been highlighted several times here and I consider it a problem, is the headquarters of the OPG, which is headed in the OPG register, which is crucial for applications, to a large number of rural development projects and EU projects. The relevant rules for the application of those projects provide that projects under certain types of operations can be implemented in violence, which have more than 5,000 inhabitants, in the area of the local self-government unit, to which the OPG is registered. So in small rural areas, we're going to get into a situation where those who come from small units of local self-government won't be able to apply. I have already said in replicas that it is common for Croatian citizens to have land in the Republic of Croatia, but they do not have residence and, accordingly, they cannot set up an OPG and you will agree that these are border and border areas of the Republic of Croatia in a significant number of cases, and I hope that this issue will also be regulated by the relevant sublaws. One more thing that is not less important, but not to mention, since this debate was due to be held on 8 March, on International Women's Day, when a lot was said for this speaker and in public about the inexplicable position of women in the Republic of Croatia, I do not think it mentions that on 31.12.2017 there were 159191 OPG of which 48350 is the holder of the OPG. So 30.38% are the owners of the OPG, respectively. I then planned to congratulate women owners, carriers, members of the OPG on March 8th and wish them easier and better working conditions as well as certainly to be a greater percentage, because 30% of the OPG holders are certainly a significant data, which speaks about how few women actually decide to be, to establish the OPG and how few, in fact, those who inherit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75123	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75124	The esteemed MPs... two parts of your debate... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] refered, first of all, to the reporting of damage to the underlying accident and I believe that this entry will not be relevant because the damage itself will be assessed by the commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because only the application which again bears the responsibility of the applicant and the reconnaissance on the spot for which the committee is responsible will determine, in fact, that this data that will be delivered to, the ministry and the agency, we do not have in it, to say, are not referents. The second issue is the production volume, which we can discuss, where it always differs from what the ministry implies at the level of the damage to a particular culture, which is the reference amount. I believe that this information, too, will not be relevant because it is doing exactly what you have mentioned, because of the economic size of an agricultural holding, you yourself have listed, it is actually questionable why it is determined that it is 3000 equivalent, euro, SO I am also asking myself. Which was the criterion, because it was required to be 50,000 economies, so to be relevant to the bill itself, because if we raised I don't know, I'm going to sketch like that now, probably incorrectly but to raise that 6000 then there wouldn't be 50, then there would be maybe 5,000 of them. You'll tell the 5,000 law yourself that the question is whether it should be as it should be. And just that border, at 3,000 of them who are amateur, deals with agriculture on a smaller scale, will also be bonds of numerous charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75125	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75126	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow, surely this OPG Act will, in a sense, be sure to regulate what we had as a problem so far, and therefore, we have written down what we have in the written culture and you will agree, that you will agree, that we have had situations, so that the damage is charged for something that did not even exist in that field. And it was also a rare situation that the members of the committee were visiting and controlling it. So I'm almost sure there will be progress in this sense. And as for the SO size of that amount of 3000 euros, I don't know why it's even worth having more than 100 thousand OPGs or I don't know how much. By increasing this amount to 6 to 8 thousand truths will be less OPGs, but therefore it would not be part of freedom, so whether someone, whether or not they will have an OPG as a production, be a producer or only work out of a hobby. What's the problem if it's built on 30,000 OPGs if a law is made that will fix it precisely and specifically?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75127	Thank you. The next replica is a respected representative of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jeckov, I think we can all agree more or less as we are in the debate during the first reading, this law is not necessarily something bad. So we will regulate something that has been unregulated so far, which is not exactly the principle in the EU, but here we have made a step. But what worries me is, is there a vision, so what are we going to do with this law? This law will be as good as the other regulations and laws actually support it in encouraging the OPGs if that's our intention. Let's just say the Agricultural Land Act doesn't go that way at all. We need a broader vision and a strategy to know exactly what we want to do with our agriculture and our producers. And when you look at how hard it is to unite this large number of OPGs under the same law, that tells you pure statistics. So according to the last numbers that I have 165,107 OPGs is registered in Croatia, you will agree very much, but 70,499 and 43%, respectively. Then I wonder how the OPGs will contribute to the development of our agriculture? On the other hand, 59,599 MAHs are over 65 years old. So you have a lot of diversity as far as the OPGs are concerned from very large to very small and it's almost impossible to bring them down into these some and financial frameworks and then say what it really is. So I'm afraid that without one broader strategy and vision of what we want and how we want to encourage them, not just the OPGs, but all agricultural producers, we're not going to achieve anything by this law. We will have a law that does not exist in the EU. Whether he will help our agriculture, without this first part unfortunately not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75129	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75130	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. At the beginning of my presentation, I talked about how it would be more constructive to discuss today's strategy for the agricultural development of the Republic of Croatia, we heard several times that we had the last strategy in 2002, it's a devastating fact. Surely, in the meantime, as a society, we have made significant progress, and it is certain that there is something to be addressed in the Ministry of Agriculture or that the strategy should be dealt with in a very good way. A series of irregularities that have occurred so far with the OPGs, so there have been abuses as I have spoken and these various benefits, and I don't know about the blue oil and the non-accounting and the abuse of incentives or the taking of illegal incentives, so we've been preparing for this debate and I've come across data that said that there were OPGs that did not have any cows, so there were farmers who didn't have a hectare of land, all of which we expect this law to advance, that they were constructively arranged, and about its effects, we'll be able to discuss with time distance again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75131	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75132	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Jecks. So you're right to say, let's warn first of all about these 3,000 euros, and I agree with you, and I will support your amendment that it's too small. However, I ask you also to support my amendment which I have... you will see it later and you rightly warn that small OPGs will find it difficult to obtain funds from European funds in this sense can help cooperatives. Here are the cooperatives in South-West England around which 33 OPGs gathered they made significant steps. At first, the cooperative was focused on the development of short supply chains, direct sales to consumers, restaurants and retail outlets so that it could have a greater share of profits than its products, build relations with its consumers and raise awareness with its agricultural holdings. This led them to conclude that they needed processing facilities to add the highest value to their products. In 2008, they provided funds through their local action group Leader and built a multi-purpose stand as a community project, including a room for sneezing and preserving, plant processing, meat cutting room and dairy, so they did it. You'll see when you look at the amendment, and this is about OPG cooperatives that are practically of equal value. And even at the end of the women, yes, so the 120,000 OPGs are holders of men and you see that as regards the Law of Inheritance and this legislative proposal could not have been taken into account or perhaps could have been taken into account, because according to the Law of Inheritance, it is clear that male offspring inherit the ordinary OPGs and perhaps should have put an heir to the law or so to say, perhaps it should be incorporated into the law that if the spouse is the bearer that necessarily the other must be the bearer, i.e. If the husband is the holder of the O.P.G., then the wife is also the bearer. That's one of the suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75133	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75134	Dear colleague. Thank you if you will support the SDSS amendment, it is indeed very collegiate. I'll take a look at your amendment and we'll discuss it further, but I have to tell you that no law on succession determines an heir or heir, it doesn't exist. You know who's in the inheritance order, and there's no such thing as a slave to gender ideology, but it just doesn't matter if you're a man or a woman. What I wanted to say and what's true is that very few women inherit. It's just prejudice, it's the patriarchal attitude of society towards women where men's children are mostly inherited but not women. Except if, so when they're units. It's something that's still one, it's the legacy of the past, and it certainly doesn't suit modern trends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75135	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75136	Thank you very much. You have told colleagues that the law allows foreign natural persons to own the OPG, that they have the OPG and that there is enough residence, while Croatian citizens are discriminated there. So Croatian citizens have been discriminated not only on this issue, but also on agricultural land because Croatian citizens, citizens can't buy in Hungary's agricultural land since 2020. So give me a little bit of an explanation. I've heard you're up for that part. You can explain to me exactly which groups of citizens you are as far as this law is concerned that I can take sides. There are enough foreign individuals, foreigners to be able to open the OPG, and there is enough residence for them, and Croatian citizens are being discriminated against there. So here's if you can name who this is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75137	The answer to the esteemed representative of Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75138	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you didn't follow me very well. I was talking about that there are frequent cases that in border areas it happens that Croatian citizens have inherited or have land in the Republic of Croatia, but have no residence. They live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for example, in the Republic of Serbia. And they've been disproved, so they can't start the OPGs in the Republic of Croatia. So who will, they simply have that land. Why can't they start an O.P.G.? ... I'm talking about Croatian citizens. [[You can't hear me.]] They're setting up an O.P.G. against their residence. I'm in my own, in a public debate I've already talked about it. In a public debate, there was a so-called Mostly doing the work, and that's the difference between where the land is located and where the owner's seat is, and that's another reading that might also have to be pollemized, but here we don't have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75139	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next club representative, and that's the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative of Christmas Macar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75140	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have already in our first reading almost all agreed that this is a really important law, a law that needs to be passed. Such a law has never existed in the Republic of Croatia before, and this area has been regulated by many laws. I'm not saying it was bad, but often these laws were also contradictory and further interpretation should be sought which would apply. It is so good to pass one whole law in this area, because we know that there is a Law on Trade Society, and we have heard that 97% of those who deal with agricultural activity are precisely in the organisational form of OPG, so this law is more and more necessary. Will that law solve the problems in agriculture we're all aware of, won't. But if it's going to contribute a little bit to making the situation in agriculture better, to be organized, to know what rules to follow, not to be complicated but to stimulate the rest of the country we've done a lot. We are constantly talking about the departure of the population from Croatia and that is the fact. It's leaving the cities, but most of all it leaves the rural areas, leaving the village. We should not be surprised because we all know the conditions of life in the country and that they differ significantly from those of life in the city. We can talk about different things here, we can talk about infrastructure, we can talk about bad roads, even lack of drinking water, lack of kindergarten, high school distance, lack of public transportation. So if you don't have your own car, it's often impossible to get to a doctor or post office, a bank or something. The person who lives in a small place, the person who lives in the country, is harder to find a job. And that is why every person who wants to stay in the country should be stimulated, and even if he is employed somewhere, and if that is another income and is provided on the basis of another income, on the other hand, should be stimulated to stay alive and to work. Because it's going to be hard for someone to live with 3,000 kunas, but if they have a little land and they process it, they're going to feed their family, and they're going to often create the rest of the market surpluses they're going to place, and that's why it's important. If it's 160 000 OPGs, they're people who live in the country, because they're really rare people who would live in the city, and they had OPGs in the village, or in the rural area. There are some, though, but I think they're a very small number. The law provides for a different definition of what a small farmer is, and this is the farmer who is market-oriented. We're talking about these small farmers dealing with agriculture in a very limited range, i.e. the statistical SO value is less than 3000 and we have 110 thousand OPGs. There are 89 thousand who use areas less than 3 ha, but there are 21 thousand more that are listed in the Register, and their value is below 3,000 euros in SO. Is that 3,000-euro high justly determined? We all know there must be a limit. We talked here and if it might be even more so to raise that line. Perhaps because of all these obligations that would be imposed on them, if they were over 3,000, it would be worth considering whether there is a possibility that at least something would increase that limit. However, this Law is primarily intended for those who are engaged in the business activity of agriculture, so those who produce for the market are market-oriented and are mostly engaged in it. However, each of us is important to the O.P.G. And what may well be noted is that even these small ones, who are up to 3,000 of these laws, will not lose any rights they have at this time, and what is feared among our OPGs. The law went through two consultations, and we discussed it in our first reading here in Parliament for more than six hours. There were many constructive criticisms and suggestions. I am pleased that much of them are accepted, whether they come from the majority or from opposition representatives, which only proves that we all have a common goal, which is to improve the Law on the OPG and regulation, but also to facilitate life and work in the countryside. So in art. The 19th is now more clearly prescribed to determine the centre of the OPG. We are here today also often referred to where it is defined that for a natural person who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia, this address is also the headquarters of the OPG, and for citizens whose residence is not in the EU and Switzerland, the address of the OPG is the address of the residence. We think it would be a good idea to consider that, if it is already such a solution, it is actually entered there and that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can use it to establish this OPG and report residence if they have the resources to produce. We also express our satisfaction with the acceptance of objections to the article. 48. which regulates the conduct of the inspection, so that we now have the definition of this article as the competent agricultural inspector will use the solution to give notice to the OPG holder and set a deadline for the removal of identified deficiencies or irregularities if it has established them in inspection supervision. That's a much better solution and we all agreed on that, and we're lucky that it's accepted because in these minor violations there are not immediately those fines that were scheduled from 1,500 to 15 thousand kuna, although we now have the same two levels of those penalties from 700 to 1500 and from 1500 to 15 thousand. The laws need to be respected, but first of all it needs to be helped to address such situations, because again, we must be happy that people want to live in the country with all the shortcomings and problems they face. Many objections were made to the lack of regulation of production and of joint processing and similar situations, so that it is now added to Article 3 in Article 14, which is that the OPG can make better use of resources for listed supplementary activities from Article 14. 13th of this Act in the part of the production of agricultural and food products at the OPG, and the provision of catering services at the OPG with other OPGs to conclude common production contracts. Of course, it's a good thing now that someone who's already placing their products has given it wine, whether it's something like that, is able from neighbors who produce noise oil or olive oil in other parts or honey to place and offer that part and they'll all be satisfied. They will be satisfied with farmers, but they will also be satisfied with consumers because they will receive a quality offer of domestic products on one occasion. Change in art has been made. 18. where the OPG's term is replaced by the term OPG and we also think that this is a good solution because at this point how to change it, not only should the stamp and other records, but we all know what else is going on behind it. The change in all institutions and even the banks and everyone else where we are registered under that name should now change it so that we are glad that this proposal, or that change, has been accepted. It is also more clearly defined who are members of the OPG, their rights when they are members of the family household, and the possibility of staying in the capacity of a member of the OPG and after the person ceases to be in the family household, but continues to work on the OPG even though it has changed its address, whether it is in the neighborhood or next door, but it is still a member of that OPG. Thus far, it has been necessary to delete such members of the OPG within 15 days if they have changed the address and could continue to work, i.e. to assist as members under this second Act, but could no longer be members enrolled in the Register and have not been able to assist in the additional activities. A quality solution is to delete a part of an art. 29. so it is now possible that the OPG holder also has management or ownership rights in companies registered for agricultural activities, so if he is co-owner, he can also have his OPG and what we consider extremely good is that the deleted solidarity guarantee is deleted. It's a good change of pace. However, when we look at all this that cannot be carried out, which is at the part of the agricultural resources from the registers necessary to carry out its economic activity on the property owned by the OPG and the member of the OPG in which he lives, if the search is less than 20,000 kuna prior to the launch of the operation and when the OPG owns live animals that cannot be transferred. However, the problem now is when such an OPG comes to the bank and wants to borrow. What can he offer as a guarantee of payment? And I'm really afraid that as much as we've been handing over these OPGs of ours that we've somehow tied their hands to this particular funding of their business, maybe there's something else they'd like to see with the banks that they'd be willing to accept in such cases. Many articles of this law will be further regulated by the rules. We hope that these rules will be simple and will facilitate the business of our OPGs. I believe it will not require that every night after returning from the fields, barns or where all day and working, our farmer will not need another hour, two fill out various forms, printers and records. Namely, we all know our farmers will work, they're worth it, but as far as the paper is concerned there should be a really maximum relief. And finally, let me just say that the HNS Club will definitely support this law and that we think that it is the first step towards better care for our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75141	Thank you very much. The next is the HSS Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75142	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretary with associates, I welcome you all on behalf of the HSS Club and here are a few reviews of the proposed Law on OPGs. In particular, we are pleased that the current Government and Minister implement those policies that the HSS advocated in the campaign and in its action, which is primarily to regulate agriculture as a strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia which must have its own specific laws, so we welcomed and adopted the Law on Unfair Commercial Practice, which was part of our announcements, the Law on Agricultural Land, although here we are now protesting the dispute over the fact that there are still no competitions on the ground, given that a lot of contracts have expired on the lease of agricultural land and, of course, this Law on OPGs that should be a tool to protect the OPGs and that we really give them the importance that without them there is no food development in the Republic of Croatia, and that we need to define what is the OPG, who is the founder, where it is founded and what it deals with the OPG as well as other provisions. And what should be pointed out is that I am a law as most have already said, will not make a improvement to Croatian agriculture without change and other laws and policies in the Republic of Croatia, but it is good that the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministry have decided to pass this law and that we are special in this way to show once again that we really care about agriculture and the OPG. If that's what they say and the data that we really need to deal with the OPGs more seriously, that today in Croatia we have about 194,000 OPG of it is 2954 companies, 2174 trades, 347 cooperatives, 192 other forms and 159.191 OPG. This proposed law is very similar to the Law on crafts and many of its provisions, so I have made an effort to compare the provisions of this law and the provisions of the Law on crafts where most of the articles are virtually identical if the basis of the Law on crafts is used. And it is good that the Proposer uses the current laws in the Republic of Croatia as the basis for new laws, but I said this because this law should define the OPG and give them space to develop, that there are more and more food producers, that we do not put ourselves in a situation like in craftsmanship because that the Law on crafts is so good then it would be good for craftsmen in the Republic. But unfortunately, a large number of them are closing their turns and talking about the state's insanity, talking about the excessive tax burden and talking about the biggest problem, which is that each craftsman for his business corresponds to the entire assets. If we leave these and such burdens at the OPG, I fear that we will not achieve the goal of having more OPGs in the future and dealing with agricultural production than will continue that trend mentioned in 2011 to 2015 that we have more than 40,000 OPGs in the register, which is not good and something has to be done more specifically to change the situation in the Republic of Croatia, especially in agriculture. And that is why I stress that this law should not be a new burden, a new administrative barrier, a new tax barrier to the OPGs and agriculture. And from this opening part can be read in many parts followed by the Law of Turn. Of course, I want the situation to change in craftsmanship, too, so that through different tax discharges, parafiscal imposes and the rest reduces pressure on craftsmen and gives them the chance of developing the OPGs as well. In particular, when it comes to this law, they would join the proposals already made in Article 9 that the OPG can be established or the holder can only be the one who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia. In this way we protect our country, our agriculture and we want to give a clear law, we have no objection to some Dutch or German coming to Croatia to settle and live there, and then when he lives there to do some production and let him do agriculture, let him transfer his positive knowledge and experience from his country and let him come here, but let him have a residence there and pay taxes in the Republic. That's the point of the story, that we strengthen our country and our agricultural production. Furthermore, in Article 15, we propose to add that not only can no member of the OPG have more than one twist but can not have a company. It's left out, I don't know why, I think it should be put if it can't have a twist then you don't have to have a company or d.o.o. Because we are aware that in previous competitions there have been conditions, the distortions of the law to create conditions, so that they can report to the competition for both the country and the eu money from the rural development programme, and that is not a good practice, and that is why it needs to be installed here, and if it can't have a trade, we can't even have a company. Also in Article 18, when it comes to the mandatory marking of the OPG, it is in our view that it is in order where the OPG operates and where it has some separate business drive but that it must also be marked, the equipment used in that production, that it must be marked and isolated places in the open area, it is read that it must be practically marked by any cadastral particle that deals with the agricultural production of the OPG. It's unclearly written, I think the proposer could have written it more precisely, and that's why it's this way from the HSS club, from the OPG's association and the question and criticism, and we're asking for it to be deleted in this respect and we're going to make an amendment because it's impossible to label all 100, 200, 300 particles on which an OPG works, and unless someone accidentally marks a particle or someone deliberately puts that board away and the inspection comes, they're going to pay a fine of up to 15 000 kunas. I don't think it should be in this law that regulated it. It would also refer to Article 23, where it is said that the OPG must be entered in the OPG register and pay mandatory pension and health insurance, and that we return to that part of the standard output, the total volume of production of the OPG, that I was already saying in the first reading and asked for it to change, and I am glad that the SDSS Club also mentioned this and that it will invest the amendment, in fact the whole debate from the first reading we had on behalf of the HSS Club has already been said, but I will repeat it once again that it is not good to define the standard output as 3,000 euros equivalent because it is not the profit of this OPG, but it is the total traffic that some OPG achieves without cost of production during the year. And if one OPG and there are 89 000 who use less than 3 ha and most of them belong to the category of up to 3,000 euros, there is a total income of around 22,000 kuna, they will have to pay both pension and health and not only the holders but all members enrolled in the register under the OPG unless they are entitled to pension and health by some other legal basis. That's about 7,000 a year per member. So if you have a total turnover of 22,000 kuna and a cost of 7 000 kuna, for pension and health only, it is logical that this OPG will not apply, that it will be shut down and that it will go into some gray zone or will pack suitcases in Germany or Ireland again from Croatia again, again from Slavonia. I think it's reasonable to consider this one more time and we're going to make an amendment and we're asking the legislator to accept this amendment with this reason that it's economically unsustainable. It may remain 3,000 euros for him to enroll in the OPG register, etc., but when it comes to pension and health obligations, let this one be installed in this law to be a larger amount which we will propose because it is waiting for the change of the OPG law, until then half of the OPG will close its doors which are within and we have said, there are almost 90,000 that are within that threshold. We would also refer to article 28 where there have already been words of a single household day, in one home address practically to translate we can only have one OPG. It is our proposal to amend this article and to place more OPGs on one home address precisely for the reason that you have in one yard that has not divided 2, 3 generations that work and have given the young family member a chance to establish his OPG, give him part of the country, part of the production resources, and we want more young people involved in agricultural production, why now limit them to join one because there is a beautiful standing in Article 22. Let's leave it to them on a voluntary basis, let's not limit them from having to because they're in collapsing Articles 22 and 28. If we said so, we can merge into one OPG, so let's not force them here by the provisions of Article 28 to connect to one OPG, thus detimizing young people to deal with agriculture. It also needs to be defined whether the student must be enrolled in the OPG register and whether he can be the holder of the OPG and a regular student. It is a question from the field, not clearly defined in articles or at least not to read whether it can retain all student rights and be the holder of the OPG. So here we ask the promoters to explain it and we think that if we really want young people to deal with agriculture, if we want them to improve professionally, especially if they're going to study agriculture, veterinary, forestry, some profession that's related to family agriculture and agricultural production, there's no reason for us to restrict them then, we need to see these opportunities. Here are some of the main remarks I've made. Also in the law on who is a member of the OPG, I believe it is of little importance that a member of the OPG also has a medium professional education from agriculture or agronomics from high professional training, and that this stimulates young people to be aware that only by knowledge can they be concrete and by adopting new technologies to competition from Europe with which they are essentially competing on the market for agricultural products. And that is why it is important once again to highlight the profession, education, lifelong education, and here also mentioned association. It cannot and does not have to be defined by this law in how to join together and how to stimulate association into cooperatives, in producer organisations, but I do not think other legal provisions of other laws are enough to encourage still enough of our people to become aware that only associations can be competitive on the market and there must be... how to handle it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we certainly won't have a problem with blocked OPGs, I already mentioned it in the replica of the secretary of state this morning where a large number is mentioned and a number of 50 thousand OPGs that have been blocked and that their debt has grown almost 100% from 2011 to 2017 and that simply those people who are through operational programmes and because of the economic crisis and because of the distortion of the agricultural product market have been left alone on the market and are in that group blocked. I think that in addition to what was put into the law that some of the assets they serve for agricultural production could not be carried out that they should be found either through this law or quickly through some other provisions of other laws, ways and solutions to help these people because if they could be helped from HBOR with 60 million kuna Agrokor, when it was already known that in financial difficulties then there must be ways and to stimulate these 50 thousand citizens in the OPGs that are blocked because this is the only way to preserve life and production in rural areas, especially Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. It should also continue to work on the education of consumers to buy Croatian products, milk from Croatian farms, honey from Croatian meadows and the like, we can save jobs and agricultural production in Croatia and, of course, increase control on the import of agricultural products. I already said in the replica that it is not good to reduce border controls and replace the assistant minister who said reduce the burden and pressure of tax and inspection on our craftsmen and entrepreneurs. Then the message must be reversed, let us help our craftsmen, buy Croatian, preserve Croatian agricultural products, only in this way can we have quality agricultural production and sufficient food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75143	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75144	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaović, I answered the replica for several reasons, because practically all day through the debate several thesis has been going through. First, the trades and the OPG rule out each other for the simple reason that according to the Law of Turning, the crafts are tied to a person. Also, the OPG is tied to a person. And he can't have either. And the difference between crafts and companies that you can own and no other relationship with that company. You have employees, directors who run the company, all together. However, in trades and the OPG, it is practically the same story. Someone's in the business of making a carrot, someone's in the business of raising a calf. And so it's the same thing. Another thing about land markings, land should not be marked because in the Arkod map there is accurate land ownership, type in, enter the site and see who owns it. But what you have to mark, you have to mark sales places or any other place where you do or sell your products. As for pension and health insurance, according to the Health Insurance Act, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have no health insurance on any basis are obliged to provide health insurance to the state and to pay. Therefore, if someone has an OPG independent of its economic capacity under the Health Insurance Act, the basic health insurance base shall be determined, as well as the basis for pension insurance. So let's not strive here to regulate something that's already regulated by other lex specialis laws. Because if you think the OPG Act can prescribe all that, then it's some kind of law that's going to be supernatural. So let's respect the laws we have at this point. Or if we want to change something, then we have to change all the laws. Here's what I felt like to say because there's just some things that are just biting each other's hair.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75145	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75146	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I would venture to say that our agricultural producers are in these circumstances when left alone on the market already possess some supernatural abilities when they survive in this number 159. Of course I agree with you that the trade and the OPG is the same and that not one person can have a craft and an OPG but should not have a d.o.o. for the purpose of creating artificial conditions for the application of competitions for both the country and the programmes referred to in measure 4.1.1, you yourself know a lot about this. And that's why we suggested it because there's no reason if someone really wants to deal with agricultural production, to have an OPG, to be the holder or member of the OPG to still establish the D.O.O. . There is already immediate doubt as to why it was founded by D.O. Why don't you tell me why someone else would set up a D.O.O. when they can also do business as an O.P.G. Obviously, it's... and some artificial conditions to report to some contests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's what we're going to do. We're going to put an amendment in that direction, so we're hoping that we can still discuss it and think about it. Of course I can't agree with you that it doesn't have to be marked by cadastrian particles by law. I agree with you, it's all in Arkod, it's in the Book, it's all standing and there's no need. And in the business books, everyone's going to put all of theirs in the records. However, Article 18(4) states that where activities are carried out in the open, how would you read this? ... And it's not, so I'm saying, a writer needs to be specified. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, that's why we're going to make an amendment to delete it, if it's not already written more precisely. No, it's not politicizing, it's helping our O.P.G. Because when an inspector comes to some isolated place, he doesn't find the O.P.G. mark, up to £15,000 is a punishment. Why would they bring this to the situation of the inspector and the OPG, that is, the carrier. So here, I believe what we wanted to say to these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75147	Thank you. The next replica is, let's be calm, not from the bench, the next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75148	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vlaovic, the state audit report in one part, says the inspector could not access the database, according to the state audit report. You know, these are things that aren't good. When we talk about this law and how I interpreted it, it stands in reason, says since the OPG cannot acquire rights and obligations, and cannot be party to the process, but it is always a natural person, holder of the OPG, individual institutions, especially investment banks, often do not recognise the OPG as an organisational form and entrepreneurs and economic operators. So we're talking about money here, through this law. About the money that is potentially available to the OPGs and which they should come up with. And in that sense, the small OPG, too, will be difficult through this legal framework, will hardly be recognized by the banks, which at this point on the Croatian market, offer too much interest. What should be necessary, on which not only the Ministry, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should be dealt with, that the lower interest, of course, is not a simple process, it takes time. And why is the OPG key? You see in the EU, as many as 60% of the world's largest economies, more than 100 hectares are OPG. We've had you even debate, should we limit the amount of hectare? There's nothing to limit. Best when you have money, then you have free production. If you don't have the money, you go to the contract production, and you know what the worst part is? When you have no production at all. In Lower Miholjc, the man put on the drum his house, his children's house, all pawned as a mortgage, to get a loan to the business bank, HBOR stopped him because you know why? They asked him what the price of pig meat would be in five years, who knows? These things need to be handled by the OPGs, they have to come to money, then there'll be things in agricultural production better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75149	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75150	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, of course I agree with you, that the OPG and this law and other laws must be the bearers of the development of agriculture and food production in the Republic of Croatia. They should have equal conditions in all institutions, banks like other companies. Not only the same, but I dare say better, because so far, without this law, without their status, they would have been very difficult to find a way to the bank, to the credit, to the investment. Because especially as this economic crisis has taken place, the embargo towards Russia and there has simply been a disturbance in the agricultural product market and the OPG has simply been left to itself on the market, especially those who through operational programmes have raised dairy farms, and we have a result that 65% of the dairy producers have left that production. Because it's impossible if the bank, when through an operational programme, gave you a 4 kn milk price and accepted such conditions, did not change any credit conditions, according to that credit user and the price of milk fell, not by blaming that producer on the kuna and 80 and even some kuna 60. With such circumstances, this law is somehow light on the way out of the tunnel, an opportunity for our OPG, but it has to change a number of other laws in terms of having to become aware that it's food and weapons. Because what kind of state is this sovereignty if we don't have enough food production in 90% of products in Croatia. Well, last year was 60,000 tons of dough... frozen in Croatia, and on the other hand, the area is reduced under wheat crops, destroying the domestic milling industry and the bakery industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are not good policies and these are bad examples that we need to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75151	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vlaovic, I have listened carefully all day, which here in the Assembly, which in the club debate and the replicas related to this law, I don't really understand much about agriculture, something little right, so I'm interested in the following. The whole time, in fact, this debate is about residence. As I read Article 9(2) here says the decimal, so if he has the right to use it, then that right is someone, some right has to consume on land or I don't know what cattle etc. etc. Everything this law prescribes. So, if he's right, you don't say if that right doesn't have anyone able to start an O.P.G. And in Art. I'd like you to explain that to me a little bit, please. 15. You are talking about the basics for health, pension, etc. As far as I'm concerned, if I'm right, in art. 15. this equivalent expressed in foreign currency of 3000 euros is not income. Therefore, it does not determine either the pension or the health care, this, contributes, but rather the basic value of land or livestock, all that it has, so that it can enter into the OPG system at all. If I'm wrong, we'd like your explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75153	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75154	Dear Vice President, my colleague Varga, I know you know a lot about agriculture, and I know what you've been up to, and I know you're a good lawyer, but we also know that we want to protect our domestic farmers from foreign capital, and that in that competition, he himself is not in a position to defend himself, and that's why we have to pass these laws. And as far as land policy is concerned, you know that through the negotiation process, we managed to cope with the country's ban on selling to foreigners for seven years, and that we have the right to ask for those three more years, but we have to justify that in a fat way to allow it. And now, in this OPG Act, it's going indirectly that that stranger and I know that we have to respect international agreements, that there must be reciprocity for now, and then, tomorrow, freely on the market, allow the foreigners to come to Croatia and take the country. But it's a chance for us to help our family farms a little bit, to condition our residence, to make this trip a little difficult for strangers, nothing else. And I think that's a better chance of giving domestic family farms a better chance than strangers. If we open this up liberally then very much, I don't believe that it will be some large number of foreigners who will accumulate but someone who may be targeted for the country, because of the competition that will come now and start here the OPG and report for a competition that has been supported by some of our domestics who "love Croatia" will come to the country, and our family farms will be left without land. That's why we talked about it, and here when it comes to the standard output, about that 3,000 euros I agree with you and well I said it's by... the calculation of the total volume of the OPG and it will not be calculated in pension and health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it says that they will pay both compulsory and health care, and the minimum amount is about 550 kuna pension and 550 health care. And if it's a bigger income, then it's a bigger amount. Right? So I used real facts, I didn't exaggerate anything. And whoever has 22,000 kunas can't pay 7,000 a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75155	Thank you. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. And the first in line is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here we have the Family Agricultural Economy Act in the second reading. Certain amendments have been accepted, i.e. The proposals they were. However, the key to this amendment just before the SDSS colleague essentially said so. Actually, there's an article here. I'll read it one more time. So I'll read the meaning of it. So we have in Article 9 that a natural person who has a residence on another country's territory that he can be, means a stranger that can be these owners of the O.P.G. So it would be much more open and clear if we said it was because of the coalition partner, Mr Secretary, because that the minister here might have been in the negotiations, that he did. I'm sorry there's no one from the SDSS that's only because of that. But it's an injustice. Injustice against national minorities who have residence in Croatia, not residence. Injustice against all Croatian citizens and Serbs living in Croatia, who have a residence. This is a clean shot, all right. Look into the eyes of the secretary, don't smile clean to hear or call the minister to make this clear. Here is discrimination against Croatian citizens regardless of the nationality of this article, and this is not funny, but this is why you also bring this Law on the OPG. The OPG is a serious story, the OPG is important because of the sovereign survival of people in the areas where they move from, and not for the benefit of those who do not have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but only for the meaning of their residence. And that's the key problem. Just before my colleague from the SDSS who spoke on behalf of the club, I didn't get an answer to this question. So this law is exclusive and we will, of course, ask, because this law would have to have the intensity to be agriculture, based on families living in that area in other countries in Serbia, or I don't know where there's nothing against people. But it's really a clean trade with this law exclusively because of a few hands. And we need to make that clear, and I'm sorry that he's not a minister here, and I believe that many associations will have to react for this. Because the fact is that whoever has a place of residence here is either going to be able to run to measure everything and to the ministry, will pay taxes to another country where he has a place of residence and everything. So it's just that this one doesn't encourage the law, that one's intention, and that's the survival of the people in this area. I'm talking about an article, so it's article 9. And once again, I would like to point out that at this point when we talk about this law that citizens have a big problem, it means administrative barriers. This is where agencies are mentioned, new institutions to be created, institutions. It means even higher costs, of course, of employment, but I guess you have too many coalition partners, so of course you'll have to meet all their conditions and criteria, especially for those who don't have a place of residence, but who have a place of residence. You're going to have to have a special office for them, of course you're doing them while in other countries you live to do their paperwork and to hold their barriers. And these people who live in our area, they just go to other countries. So this article, in my opinion, is one of the most controversial, and as far as farmers themselves are concerned, this is after the sale of land, after the Agricultural Land Act, where agricultural land is allowed to be purchased by foreign natural and legal persons since 2020. So once again, I also said in this law that agriculture is a national and strategic resource for agricultural land. I will also give an example of Hungary, a natural or legal Hungarian person can buy agricultural land in Croatia and since 2020 Croatian citizens of natural and legal persons in Hungary will not be able to do so. They're not the same conditions. These are not the same conditions as you discriminate about in this case Croatian citizens, citizens, because they should have a residence, and these others have a residence, and they can live in Serbia, Bosnia or not. So this is where you discriminate against the citizens who live here, so we're going to give our amendment to this part. That's what my colleague Panenic said. Most OPG facilities don't meet the conditions that you say, so you're now giving conditions of course that the tribalo means they don't have the OPG conditions and the minimum technical conditions that you have set out, so here the triba works for the benefit of farmers, not imposing standards that will make it difficult. There should be standards, but there's no standard to stop them. One of my friends, he's usually a blogger, he wrote one thing here when the Chinese were 25.1. in Slavonia so this is how he wrote I'll read, he gave a simple formula, please write it down I can't give it in the form of an amendment, but it would be good to give you in the form of an amendment "Swine budget." She was a delegation from China the other day and saw the breeding of local black Slavonian pigs. Now, the Chinese would like to order five million pieces, to make a better picture. If I were to export to Luci Ploče that's eight rows of pigs, one pig 1.2m from Bajakova Serbia to Ploca 781m, that's 600,000 tons of meat. If a kilo of such organic pigs is 20 kuna live scales, it is 12 billion kuna, a tenth of the budget, the Peljeski bridge from VAT, the rest of the politicians elected for wages and that do not accidentally come to work. All I can do is spoil it like Mujo in Apollo, and the Croats are missing high-tech technology, and the German has already invented everything. Close one lane of freeway for seven days and there's a hip. Make Slavonia happy." Here the message is clear, so the Chinese come interested in huge quantities of black pig production, but in us the brakes are an import lobby. There are no export lobbies in us, our village has been destroyed, moved to politics, 64,000 have been OPGs in the last six years, subsidized in five years five billion kunas of dairy production with 64,000 OPGs that were engaged in dairy were burned to 4600 from 80% of domestic production to 20%, and five billion kunas invested. Well, that's logic, not the tribune to be a scientist here. Where did he give the money? I am sorry that there is no minister here, is this OPG law, as counterpart Panenic said, he gave nine amendments, gave my colleague Sagar, and I have a certain number of amendments, talking to the OPG people who want to correct these injustices and trying to survive in this area and calling on people to stay on their did-overs and to fight here because what the state will do to us if it is an empty country, that this is neither a demographic measure. This is a favor exclusively from the political trade of your coalition partners and I am sorry that he is not a minister here and I repeat again Tolusic, who is calling for a very important Law on OPGs. So here is discrimination against Croatian citizens, regardless of the nationality of all those who have residence in other countries, foreign, foreign people who can have enough residence, the Croatian citizen cannot do so with residence. Therefore, here you have made one discrimination against Croatian citizens, but of course it was the condition of your coalition partner i.e. Those who run this SDSS government and of course you agreed to it. Then so publicly say, that's what a colleague on behalf of the SDSS just earlier said, just in a slightly different dictionary and words. I would ask you to call on the Minister of Honor to clarify this situation for the sake of the public of the farmers of the OPG and for the people who have Croatian citizenship and who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. We have clear answers before this law is passed. The law here has... we can just say we have an OPG and it's basically a new administration, an increase in administration of larger OPG jobs means the state will cost more expensively to benefit foreigners and of course a peasant who has an OPG will have nothing, and without rich villages there is no rich state. And you obviously don't care if the interest in such an important law is the minister would be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75157	Thank you very much. I guess we'd be representatives here, too. We're still only 10% of all MPs. Yeah, it's an honor. [[I'm all day.]] We have one replica on your exhibit, the esteemed representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75158	Thank you, Vice President. My friend Bulj, if I was a little late, I'd wait five hours to register the car this morning. This is why I was late. But when we talk about agriculture, I know that agricultural laws weren't so bad, and the question of land allocation and land policy, what is it? In our country, there goes the honest OPGs, honest people who couldn't stand the dishonesty that was happening in Slavonia where I live. They couldn't get those who wanted to work, but those who were alike. It's a question of questions in this country complete. Gentlemen, we're always talking about laws, it's not about laws, let's process the people who stole hundreds of millions in this agriculture, and they've invested nothing, that's the question, the local powers, the agencies and all the other people who do it. Where's our organization? We don't have one. We're going to pass the law, we're not going to enforce it, and the Blimey knows about the crime, but he didn't open up the criminals. Gentlemen, we're just talking about saying here we came, we worked, we talked, we left, we did nothing. The law will be passed, we will uphold that law, and what will we do? Everyone knows all over the country what happened in agriculture, not just in agriculture, in every activity. The honest people here have turned out to be fools, but an honest man remains only honest, can't be if he's crazy, is he honest, but criminals are still running us some resistor's policy. We, when we settle it, have solved this country. So, responsibility, honesty, people who work the country, not people who come from some other side and take what they need. They pick up the creams of gentlemen, and the rest of you have nothing. And you children of Slavonian farmers take your bags, sit on buses and make money in Germany, and leave a fortune the way we have in Slavonia. Let's start with agriculture, forest and everything else, it's all about crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75159	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75160	My fellow Muscle... We have Podravka which is a food producer with its hill, if not owned, mostly by the Croatian State, and as regards the purchase of agricultural products needed in the production of products which Podravka, er, and branded, was mainly imports from Hungary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It didn't mean that our man, and the state owns most of the Podravka, that's what he's talking about. However, this Law allowed, what you said – I agree absolutely that the country was assigned as assigned, that the peasant was beaten to the pain, that there were empty villages, empty farms. Before joining the EU, stories were told that it would all bloom, people were raising loans, and now these areas are empty since 2020, according to the recent law, and you supported it, it will be able to buy foreigners. They'll probably buy it, but of course it's interest for the Hungarians and all of them to get to agricultural land. But here, the worst thing that is possible for foreigners is that, for foreign natural persons, it is possible for them to establish an OPG based on their residence, which is not allowed for the Croatian citizen. Of course, it's agreed with most of the SDSS because as SDSS, HDZ, HNS and you will support it, I will support this, but with amendments. So, I'll give the amendments because I sat down with the waist. Here is an exclusive benefit to the damage of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the OPG is a serious problem and I am sorry that it is not here the minister to clarify us because Mr Secretary obviously has no intention of explaining this because he is aware that this is a political agreement, which is why this is a precedent and it is known that this is a political trade that most of us will survive SDSS and HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75161	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next is a respected representative, Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75162	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Majdak, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal of the Law that our agricultural policy was definitely needed, which aims to define the family holding as a strategic, as a recognizable and accepted organisational form of the agricultural economy. I am pleased that the Proposer of the Law, Ministry and Government has accepted certain things, life situations and prescribed who are members of the OPG, which are their rights when they are members of the family household, and the possibility of retaining the properties of a member of the OPG which when it ceases to be in the family household, provided that it continues to work in that same OPG. This really is one real-life situation. It is often linked to young persons who, as a member of the OPG, work on the OPG, make certain incomes for themselves and enter into some new circumstances, i.e. to move, to start their families and do not stop working on the OPG itself, and it is good and important that this provision is classified as such in this Proposal. Recently, we also had the opportunity to listen to an Italian representative in the European Parliament, Nicole Capputa, who stressed in the EU 6% of the TSOs under the age of 35. Here, I would now take advantage of the opportunity, I looked at the pages of our paying agency, so I would highlight some data related to the Republic of Croatia, where 10% of the OPG bearers are under 40 years old, 40% of them are between 40 and 60 years old, 50% of the carriers are over 60 years old. To me there are definitely worrying and burning certain alarms of rural space, but also agriculture in those areas, and it is very similar with the education structure, some of them have touched it today, so they would read the statistics, where less than 5% of the holders of family farms have high or higher schools, about 30% have high school, about 20% have primary school, and because of their high life span, a large share of the holders, they are mostly those over 65 years old, have no completed eight-year school education, and is very similar to that situation and with the members of the OPG themselves. So I think it is very important and important to give young people a chance, an opportunity for educated people to start changing these trends and these indicators. Some of the things that may be necessary yet to be highlighted during the action itself is an increase in the percentage of support for young farmers themselves. For those beginners, and we all know how expensive agriculture as an activity it is to enable easier access to credit and definitely work on equalising access to resources for all young people because here, today we also have a regulation that makes it possible for a young person who has been working on a particular economy for 5 years in some way to take away the right to her youth, i.e. their right to have the status of a young farmer. So, by all means, both here and in the EU, we have to work on assumptions, we have to work on. priorities that will be able to stop this exodus of eviction, these trends mainly in Slavonia and Baranja from which I come. I believe that this law has finally achieved one first step, a legal whole has been created from which, in the future, it will be easier to create and improve further agricultural policies. I therefore consider this legal framework a quality and is indeed a good way to promote both young farmers and generally small agricultural economies in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75163	Thank you. And on your exhibit, we have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mikulić, in part of what you said, can agree, but I must repeat that although this law is a good thing that we regulate the final scope of the CAP, which is not a re-practice in the EU, I do not know how much it can help us if we do not have a broader vision not only in agriculture but also in demographic policy. We saw what one member of the HDZ government said about this demographic policy not long ago he resigned. And we've been listening to announcements from the Ministry of Agriculture about the agricultural strategy, or the development strategy that we haven't seen yet. The last time I heard the announcements, they didn't come from here as a state secretary but from a state secretary. That was about a year and two, three months ago. Since then, I don't know what stage it's been taking. This law is like you said one of the segments that can improve our production, may or may not have to. It could be like holy water won't help or help. But I'm sure it won't help if it's not part of a bigger picture. The moment we have a strategy, when we know what we're working towards, then it can help us. And in the end, I'd like to look back on what you said, young people. It is certainly a topic that affects both of us since we are from Slavonia when we proposed that education be one of the additional points of the policy, that is, where you can get extra points when you apply for the country. So when we talked about the Agricultural Land Act, it was not accepted by the proposings at the time. So much for the intention that young and educated, and we know that today being a farmer should also have education, remain on your grandfather.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75165	The answer of the respected MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75166	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, here I am merely going to try to show you by one picturesque example why it was necessary to create and why it is necessary to pass this law. You can go today, right here in Zagreb to the place to the first grandmother who stands in front of the board of OPG and buy pineapples. Is this pineapple manufactured in Croatia? It's very likely not. And it was just necessary to create a legal framework to put the OPGs into one status, in one level so that they could develop later. You've been in power, you've had your chance, but some of ours haven't defined it before. So I think this is a very good start to something that's going to be looked at later, and in the future I'm convinced of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75167	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75168	Thank you very much. A colleague, Mikulić, since you come from an area where some insist on imputing the government and the minister that this Article 9(2) refers to this particular area. Well, I'd like to comment with you on something that the Foreign Law clearly defines. However, let us read this article 9, paragraph 2, so that we can all hear what is inside. I quote: "A natural person residing in the territory of another EU Member State or signatories of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and of the Swiss Confederation. If it has the right to use production resources in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it can carry out the economic activity of agriculture in the organisational form of the OPG in accordance with the provisions of this law."I don't know if, in the meantime, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have become members of the EU or may be members of the Swiss Confederation or we here insist on imputing ourselves in this House something that simply doesn't say. Because if someone is to say that something is written there, then let them write, not say something clearly defined by the Foreign Law, and Article 9(2) clearly defines who it refers to. Therefore, it concerns the members of the EU and the Swiss Confederation with whom the Agreement was signed on to say exactly that about the economic space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75169	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. Well, we're used to saying things that don't stand in the law, but people talk about it. Here's my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75170	Here's my dear colleague Shuker, I'm glad you pointed out this problem and basically explained in your presentation to all those who today persistently through their replicas and expressions were practically telling the truth. And here I checked as I listened to you, indeed neither Serbia nor Bosnia and Herzegovina became members of the EU, nor became members of the Swiss Confederation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75171	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mate Čička. I don't see him here. He's losing his right to speak. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75172	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. So in the second reading, we have the final law, so the Family Agricultural Economy Act. And we've had a lot of opportunities today to hear about on one side and those who support the adoption of this law and those who actually support it in some way, maybe, and they do find a lot or don't support it, and they do find a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot of criticism, and they find a lot of negativity, or something that maybe this law won't do, or an agricultural, family agricultural economy won't make that activity any better, so in that sense, I think it's worth hearing these people too. I am not a farmer in particular, but I have talked to a lot of people and I know a lot of people who have OPGs, who have an additional activity, but with their activity they make a very, very, very big contribution to a wider and better picture and in terms of agricultural but also in terms of tourism. As I come from the tourist area myself, I come and talk to people who have, who have their own economies and islands or in the hinterland, I'm talking about the town of Vodice, so from a specific environment that has its own specificities again, and they talk about whether this law will bring them improvements, whether this law will bring any better conditions for development, better conditions for competitiveness, better conditions for their business. That is why I can really agree with them that this law is definitely not some guarantee of some better agrarian performance and of both them and generally Croatian agriculture. And we wonder how, from some other EU countries, the products of these countries are more competitive. Obviously, business conditions are better there. It's obvious that tax policy is different, that it's more favourable. So there is really a clear question, will this law also help us to make it worth the effort to deal with agriculture, and compared with countries where people are more competitive and where productivity is higher, and there are no such laws. So that's the key question that people who have O.P.G.s ask such a question. Secondly, what they consider perhaps once the difficulty it will bring is that it will bring new burdens, new administrative burdens. So another set of additional records, monitoring, that they will actually ask the question, whether this increased administration, an increased number of reporting records will lead to them being able to be more successful, more innovative, to compete more easily, to produce easier, to place their products more easily and to express their concerns there. And they also express concern with a series of provisions that are quite strictly sanctioned, sanctioning different things. Here's one of the ones that are visible that is that the lack of the name OPG itself can be punished in the range from 1500 to 15,000 kuna, so it's very, very strict and quite unincentive, so they express their fears. What they also consider to be the intensity of this law is quite one financial control, rather than facilitating the operation of the OPGs. They also believe that this could benefit more companies than the OPGs themselves. Here, for example. So on the other hand I'm certainly and I think that anyone who has their OPG is actually for an orderly system, for control, especially when we talk about the health regularity of food products, cosmetics. But we are really asking whether this law is going to ensure that this is exactly what we are going to achieve, or whether we are going to sanction this other one, so sanctioning it itself, for example. how many rooms, so it's with these rules arranged, but how many rooms of height, how many tiles there are, what kind of tiles I think we really need to go towards those laws and rules that will enable both control and one good framework, but also be an incentive and unlimited factor of this innovation, and we know that these particularly small OPGs are very, very good promoters, representatives of the tourist treasure that we have. That's whether or not you said yourself that it was an intensification to pass a law that would prevent the mugging, so whether it will bring it, is it too ambitious to know that we also have a very, very big problem in the sector or part of the inspection that people are always missing and whether or not this law is actually going to be one more increased volume of what needs to be controlled, while at the same time whether it is going to prevent this muttering with which you are, therefore, the the thesis is going to take place. And what I would really, and in one replica, mention it, is something a colleague mentioned in the first reading, and I hope that through some amendments you will adopt these again because several times today they are expressed, and that is to say that persons, to throw out the part of the article relating to business incompetence, knowing that we have adopted conventions on the rights of persons with disabilities where, and even in our family law, there is no longer a complete incompetence, there is a partial business inability and with quality support therefore, people can make decisions and I see no reason why it would be such a decadent mention that there is no longer a member of the OPG can be a person who has business incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75173	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next is Honorable Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75174	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since it is a second reading, here I will try very briefly to explain the amendment that I have prepared, but before that I will try to give my vision of what I see as an advantage to this Law. On the one hand, we have a rural space, a space that we want to survive, people on it to survive in our village. The truth is, the village will never be the same again. Then, on the other hand, we have agricultural land as an extremely important resource of the Republic of Croatia and on the third hand we have our farmers, our OPGs and a little bit to prevent delusion, this Law does not establish the OPGs, it only defines them, categorizes them, and that is kind of the step of this Law, and in that sense I welcome it. But what should the law actually bring? It should ensure that healthy and safe food production and the competitiveness of Croatian producers are as intensive as possible. So, O.P.G. And as we have already mentioned many times, the mains of all agricultural economies are actually the OPGs. They have a series of problems. The most obvious is in supply chains which are often too long, the absence of a freezer, meaning the absence of all technical preconditions to ensure that their product is safely reached by consumers. Someone here mentioned it here, and it mentions it for many years, green and blue Croatia and indeed what fellow Bulj is something in one instance when he spoke, the truth of this example is truly imaginary because so much of the black Slavonic pig is hard to produce at all, but there was indeed an example of where, for example, our chain of hotels at sea requires from a manufacturer, say, a potato and then when he says the quantity, then a man thinks, well, maybe it could still be. He says you didn't understand me, but I need a clean potato cut into fries. That's the problem now. And in that sense, I have also proposed an amendment to the article. 5. where the sub-paragraph to which it reads is added: OPG cooperatives are cooperatives which, in accordance with the Cooperative Act, have certain specific features, are aimed at joint production, distribution and placing on the market, and allow for a reduction of market risk and strengthening of the position of the OPG, by encouraging innovation, products and by strengthening food quality and safety. In this respect, it would be added to Article 22 of the 22nd Article, which reads as the title of the OPG Cooperatives. Article 1(2) or (2) of the EAGF may form an OPG cooperative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This would ultimately be in line with what the Ministry has through these 3 laws and tried, it is the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on the OPG and the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practice. I ask the Ministry's representatives to take a good look at this amendment, let the Government process it if necessary, but I think that amendment is very important because it is not because we are now inventing hot water, but all successful agriculture in the EU member states are currently based on small cooperatives and achieve significant successes. The truth is, we have a break from cooperatives because of the negative connotations of the past, but I am convinced that the OPGs, especially small OPGs, to become competitive, need to be joined together, and this is one proposal that will allow them to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75175	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that respected representative of Zelj Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75176	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. OPG, maybe it's a funny formulation because that's how some people comment on it, which is what these OPGs are now, which is why it's a good thing that the OPG finally gets the law, maybe at this point not the best and not the way many would want it, but as a fundamental law for the definition of OPG. As such, since there has been no and defined so far this OPG which has worked all these years in such a form and what I saw in this law at the very beginning in Article 3 which says that the OPG is a strategically important organisational form of the agricultural economy in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we don't have a strategy so I don't know why it's strategic, but it should be strategic because in nature they need small, medium and large organisms, as well as in agricultural production they need micro and small and medium and large systems to make agricultural production compact. But unfortunately, over all these years, we have come to this claim that the OPG is a strategically important organisational form. And where's our farm today? Our farm is ruined. All operational programmes implemented, no matter what authority they were exercised or which ministers were practically ruined. I think it's the hardest thing for those in dairy production, the operational programme for the construction of dairy farms that many have turned into black, many have had big eyes, but also the state hasn't kept much to that production, and I think it's the most difficult form of production in agriculture in the Republic because when you produce milk for you there isn't even a year, you can't even go to your children normally for the wedding because if you don't do your husband's feeding at exactly how you get used to your flock, that production falls drastically, and then it's hard to come back. We're even worse in pig farming, and we've also done farms in the operational program that we shut down very quickly. For example, we have a model in pigs, Danes, Dutch, but look, they don't produce corn that is energy feed or soybeans that are protein feed, two of the most important feeds in their pig, or produce perhaps as high quality barley as we produce it because we produce a lot of beer barley. So we have all the conditions, but we didn't know again because we're through a series of laws that were done in the offices, often when I don't listen to that peasant who's out there in the field what he knows because when I put on the vaneson I'm working in, then I'm a greasy peasant for some, when I come to a bank like that, then they look at me like a weird beak that I'm here now, which is this. That's the perception of a peasant in the Republic of Croatia. We need to create laws that will lead to something that has a trend of decline in the trend of growth. Agriculture has a drastic trend of decline, the O.P.G. has a drastic number of declines in numbers. Whether they're small or medium, it doesn't matter what they are now, they're all economies that create a new value. One cow creates a new value, one sheep every product that creates a new value is important to this country which is not enough except in two or three products for its production, means for what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need. We live in peaceful times today, but when crisis situations arise, we will wonder where our agricultural production is. Now we don't need it, here it is in Austria, there is in Germany coming from all over the world of goods to the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately our citizens often eat garbage, not quality food that we produce here, and it often ends up on European tables, and we get further garbage. One OPG in Europe has been created for generations. Not one generation, not five years, not ten years, has been created for generations to become a strong family economy or whatever it was called in that Europe. But what did we tell our children today? That some can get through the support very quickly, through those times when it shouldn't be sown, when everything was on paper so that it could get rich very quickly. But it can be destroyed very quickly. Thank God today, the paying agency is set up, and it's far less likely, and it's a hoax about support, although many people who don't deal with this topic think that these support farmers get just like that, that these are incentives and piles of money they get. But today, without this support, none of us are competitive in production with those products that we have toward Europe, which have far greater support, which has hidden support and Europe that keeps its peasants in hand because it knows that it is the base of a country’s food production. What do our children see today when they see such difficult conditions of production? I'll tell you from my example, they've seen very well how we grew from a hectare and a half to the next, how painful it is. Here's my kid went to the building because he doesn't see the future in it. Unfortunately, we gave that message to those young children. And who will continue this family tradition in many such economies. We're sending a bad message. I think we should have sent a better message with this law. I'm an agronomist, I had great professors Brčić, Todorovic, Barcic, people who told us that we as agronomists have to help the village because they grew up at a time when agriculture was developing and my relationship with agriculture was like that. My intention is not to criticise today’s ruling laws, but rather to direct and help me, and perhaps with something someone doesn’t like to point out that something should be different based on their life experience, and I think that these experiences when you learn from mistakes and when you see what should change, and no one will change that they are a very important experience. The problem in this law may be rules and regulations, we do not know what it will be, nor can we as representatives influence the adoption of regulations and regulations, they will be brought by ministers. What's the status of an O.P.G., for example, in a bank? You don't have regular income as an OPG, and simply by card you can't go, say, to Pevec and say buy a TV for two thousand kuna for ten wars because you're told in the bank you don't have regular income. It doesn't matter what you drove through your account in that year, 200, 300 thousand kuna, but you're a peasant who doesn't have regular income and you're not equal to other citizens. What? ... Say it, but go ahead. [[You can't hear it.]] No, I mean, feel free to say what you want. [[No, we won't.]] So we have to help these people who disappear, go outside, those people who stop doing it because they see that there's no way and there's this positive movement in the law, that there's no one who thinks I'm just negative and I'm criticizing. This expansion to a family that can help in business is very good. I commend it in that part, and even the household and family only expands, means that those who come here don't have to help glue stamps, start some kind of working relationship and complicate that the inspections don't run around in the fields and haunt these people. Here, it's one of the very good things that's been done in this law. Of course, time will show whether it's wrong, whether we're wrong or anyone who did this, and at the moment when you see it, you need to make and supplement and change, if you need it. But like any law in the Republic of Croatia, it suffers many changes and a good admit that something may not be quite the way it was originally imagined, so it should be replaced. But here, like all legislation in the Republic of Croatia, the definition of the law in our country is that the spider's law is a web in which tiny flies are caught, and the bumblebees fly through it. So a lot of things are expected of this OPG Act, it can't be drastically solved as such, nor will it save that I don't know what, the best in the world written, but here, it's one basic law that will help to finally define that OPG, that it gets its status and gain some meaning as something that it is and should be of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75177	Thank you very much. There are several replicas on your display. The first is a respected representative of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75178	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Lenart, you constantly speak is not intended to criticize you, and you are always criticizing and offering no new solutions or offering some new quality steps in the Law itself. You're also saying that in the west there are better conditions, greater support, hidden support, etc., so have you ever spoken to anyone, here I am in Italy with young families that have 30-40 cows, which are also engaged in tourist activities by renting apartments and selling their milk how? Well, on the market. They have options, 3, 4 or more buyers, and they decide who they sell their milk to, and they're not the price of milk you claim to be compared to the situation we have here. So we can't tell the truth if we haven't checked what it means outside and what's going on. You say O.P.G. That the OPG is defined here at the height of the traffic. If you make 200, 300 and more thousand kunas of traffic, then you're a craftsman, then you're not an O.P.G., then you're a craftsman operating under a special, or according to the Law of Trade. So, we can't shake up the concepts and with this, actually, the OPG was brought into a certain situation that has advantages, has more opportunities than others.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75179	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75180	My colleague Peric, I'm afraid I have to tell you that you've said things here that you don't know much about, and you thought you knew. In order for even the OPG to have an obligation to enter the VAT system, that was the traffic 230, so now it's 300 thousand kuna. So it's not a turn. Only then must it enter the VAT system, or if it has passed the 89 thousand kuna support it has received. The price of milk, let's tell this to one of the farmers at the dairy rally and keep them a story about the production of milk in Italy and what they do today and how they live here. Have you ever been to a milk manufacturer who has problems because it can't work anymore? How many have fallen. Have you been to those who have failed? Bigger support in the West. Well, they did. There are far greater support in the West. There's a large array of hidden support. I've visited the maltenes all over Europe and as the head of agriculture and as the mayor who deals with the sector and with my friends and talked to both the Germans and the Italians and here, two months ago I was in Italy the same for agricultural business. They don't bloom for roses either, it's true, but far more states protect these producers. They care because a rich peasant isn't a threat to the state. He's helping the state, and we're running away from it. You say I'm just criticizing. Well, criticism isn't negative, Mrs. Peric. The criticism is positive. A smart man can draw a smart conclusion from a fool. And criticism is something that helps you to get better if you might have got something wrong in that moment. And the HSS will offer amendments, we offer new solutions, so we offer a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75181	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think you've concluded your presentation with a key sentence, which is that this law will not save Croatian agriculture, it won't even help it, but here, in some segments it may be a step forward, but again, I repeat only if we have a vision. What I want to look back on, in what you said is next. In fact, Minister Tolusic told HRT this morning that the OPG law only criticises those who have not read it. I read it, and in a number of replicas I said, I'll also say in the debate that follows that the law as such is not bad. He has a few shortcomings to fix, but together with you and many other opposition clubs, we have supported a whole series of proposals proposed by most of whom we thought were good and could improve Croatia. However, my colleague, what I am afraid of and what we cannot read right now, and you mentioned the rules and regulations. So we in good faith can vote here a lot and believe we're doing a good thing. And the rules and regulations that will result from this and which will regulate other parts that are not regulated by law can make Frankenstein not only help but also help. Unfortunately, that's what we saw with this resolute minister, so I'm very skeptical about it. The absolute implementation of this law should continue to follow and change it and make pressure not only to change the law if it is not good, but also rules and regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75183	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75184	So, dear colleague Hajdukovic, you know that Ministers are expendable goods regardless of what government is concerned and that God helps those who choose to be ministers, especially agriculture. Of course, this law will not save agriculture as I have said, but it goes into that first step to define a family agricultural economy that has already been defined and operated and has not had its own law. And therefore, the promoter has taken at least this first step to make one law that, if things are set out in this debate, might be something more quality than this first proposal in the second reading that is so. Now it all depends on the promoter whether he wants to listen to us all here who we have discussed, regardless of the political option, and to view it as a need for the development of the OPG and to improve and produce and to raise this trend of the OPG's decline in growth. With these remarks, we can read a lot and probably do much better than this example. But if all the opposition says is criticism as Mrs. Peric says it is not good, then I think our purpose of the debate here and the loss of the whole day of this law is simply a waste of time. However, knowing people here and at the ministry, who have heard between these two readings what we have been discussing here, and it is clear that some things are included in this final proposal, I believe that there may be a vote here and its amendments, i.e. The amendments to the Government still complement this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75185	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75186	Thank you very much. I'm not going to tell you that you're criticizing, but I'd like to exchange experiences with you and de-commit some things, but on the basis of arguments. So for the past 15 years, over 50 billion support has been paid out of the state budget to farmers. That's what you need to add to capital investments and other things. Therefore, there is one thing now, the Ministry of Finance has provided those who have worked the programme, and that is the Ministry of Agriculture, some long, and agriculture is where it is. But one topic that particularly tickled me, because you're not the first one to talk about it today, and these are those famous farms with the milk cows. I think it was a great project to revitalise the Croatian village. Only at one point did someone not react as they were supposed to react, which was 2012, 2013. And we can check that with the basis of exact indicators. At that time, excess milk appeared on the European market. And of course his price went down and then those inventions about bacteria, about milk, this, that and the price of milk in Croatia started. And fellow Lenart, I don't know if you know it, but it's probably because you're dealing with this area, you might want to look at 2013 to see how much it grew in Croatia percentageally in the State Statistics Office, see that beef production data. So, the farms that we had a hard time building, so Croatian peasants with the help of the Ministry of Agriculture. The heifers that were heavily acquired from Austria, somewhere else the best quality were unfortunately slaughtered, someone did not respond at the right time and that was 2012, 2013. Let's not talk anyway. And one more thing that you and I have been commenting on. Reports. Reports at the agency are related to support. And for the first two, three years they are necessary for two reasons – let's see what support is being spent and how much production we are making, so that we can simply do some documents. And one more thing, if you'll excuse me one more sentence. If I'm not mistaken, it's a strategic mark for the HSS family economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75187	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Lenart will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75188	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's my colleague Shuker. I'm glad to have you polymized. Yes, the strategic mark of the HSS for the OPG, but we didn't get it all together enough, all together. Remember that year on the stairs when the money was needed and when the late Friscic said he would come with the tractor, so we didn't all do what we were supposed to do together. But I will return to these 64 billion kunas. I think it's big money that's been invested in agriculture, and the effect is nowhere near what's been invested in agriculture. Unfortunately, a lot of money went wrong. Can I? So it's the wrong way. [[Yes, yes, yes. Sure, just keep going.]] I'll go back to those farms. In the operational program, a farm for 50 milk cows cost about 2 million and 800,000 kuna. Those 800 thousand kunas went to the construction lobby, and we know that they had some firms with modest construction facilities working on 13 farms at the same time and never finished, and they ended up very badly. As it goes in Croatian, we saw it very well and one part of the collapse is there. One part of the collapse is on farmers who had a farm of 10 cows, and then suddenly they wanted 50 cows, so they built this farm that cost so much, and then they realized they didn't have land. So then in the land race, then when they got it all together they realized they didn't have enough machinery, so let's get another loan for all that machinery. And that's where we came in. But don't forget that advisory staff were tasked with urging farmers to enter an operational programme of dairy and livestock. That's true. And that unfortunately came to where we are. I'm out of time. Since the president doesn't warn me, I'm warning myself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75189	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad to see that this exchange of ideas at my colleague Lenart's hearing before was a good introduction actually in my debate. I think that's where we all agree when we talk about this law, which I believe is what I think Secretary of State Majdak followed the debate last time, so he'll know. And that's when I was talking and now I'm talking and I'm staying with this law not necessarily bad. So he regulates something that has been unregulated so far, which existed in a legal airspace, let's call it that. Now we codify it, sign it, and introduce some rules of conduct. That's not bad. Although similar forms of business exist, therefore, such as the OPGs exist and have no specific laws in the rest of the EU, here we are special. But I wish I could say that this law has solved a good part of the problem. I would like to say that this law has solved all the problems of Croatian farmers and that this law has actually guaranteed that Croatian agrarian, livestock and agricultural production will generally be better. No, unfortunately it is not and unfortunately our agricultural production will not be better only if we do not think strategically and in the long term. The best example of this is this exchange before, so the cattle farming project, that is, the milk farm cow, which ended the way it ended. I also come from a region known for this dairy and livestock, or cow farming, so I know that the crisis that has occurred on our market has hit farmers. At one point, the state financed with considerable amounts of just such a farm, so that at another point, it would conclude that such farms were invaluable. Now for various reasons, we can polymize whether these are the reinvestments of farmers themselves, whether these are some other reasons we can talk about. But the fact is that Croatia is as a agricultural producer in the EU frameworks and that we, in order to be competitive on the common market, have to specialize. What does that mean? We can't go crazy. We need to focus on one goal or a few strategic branches like Denmark did. I think she's been mentioned here before. Denmark is the largest pigmeat producer in the EU. We can hardly deal with it and be competitive with Danish meat in this segment. We may also be in the other, in the production of perhaps aft like fellow Lenart used to say high - quality feed, or food for those same throats. We can base ourselves on eco-production, we can base ourselves on the production of delicacies, so like cool, sausages and the like. But we have to have a plan. We must have a clear state vision in which we want to develop. We have many countries, but not unlimited, and we know that livestock requires a certain amount of land. Not to be too long on this subject which is not necessarily strictly related to this law is a fact which is in Croatia that investments in agriculture have been continuously growing since Croatia alone, and that our production has kept falling. Unfortunately, these are indicators that we have to imagine very well. And just because we don't have the resources to throw anymore, we need to think about where we want to point them. I am pleased that the proposaler listened to most of the proposals in the second reading and included them in the final draft of the law. I think that this is also the point of the debate in Parliament and that we are actually one step closer to a quality legal solution and I hope that it will do so in this case that the amendment colleagues will support especially those who have heads and tails, so that they have clear reasons. What remains as a fact when we talk about OPGs, their amount of composition and structure, what I've been saying before. So we have about 160,000 OPGs of which 43% doesn't have any members. So if we're talking about O.P.G.s, we can probably really talk about a double smaller number. Also, 60,000 of these same OPGs and 36% have carriers over 65 years of age. So here we can even talk about the social category of single or small, old households, etc. So, the OPGs according to their structure are very diverse and mine is actually afraid that if we want to be guided by justice, we're going to have a hard time putting them under the hat of a roof law. But hope remains, but I must admit that I have a large reserve in which the ministry in other documents that will regulate this area will bridge some of these problems. So that would be the rules and regulations. I say from this ministry we haven't had good experience with regulations and regulations, I hope it won't be in this case. In any case, I would end the debate in the planning of agricultural production and the economy in general, we lack strategic thinking. I said and repeat Croatia is a small market and only specialized and clearly transparent and continuous use of resources in one direction of development can generate growth. As far as the law itself is concerned, if the motionor completes it with some amendments, I'm willing to support it. But what we should certainly do is constantly monitor its implementation, see how the OPGs themselves will exist under this law, and if it is necessary to amend not only the regulations and regulations, but also the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75191	Thank you very much. We have a replica of your exposure to the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75192	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic clearly has a series of regulations and regulations as well as a Agricultural Land Act which I don't know what to do, the minister is authorized to pass the rules, a regulation that will apply to the law but would like to present his colleagues when he said that building a farm for male cows would be an excellent move for agriculture. I don't know how much you know, I know in my area where three farms were built for male cows and you know where those troupes ended up? Two OPGs ended up in Germany, one ended up in Norway, so I don't know what such a good strategy was, the construction of those stops that were, and we know that they cost about 2.5 million kunas for urging advisory staff to go into the construction of a farm and for those farms they had to choose certain performers who worked at certain prices. For example. For such a farm in one normal contest that farm was worth a million kunas and it actually cost 2 million kunas and 800 thousand kunas and I think it was then the state to stand behind it and therefore I don't quite agree that it was a good move to build such farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75193	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75194	So, I can agree on what you said, it's a lack of vision, so it was an ad hoc project that was being implemented for a while and which at one point stopped, I gave you the same as you could list a whole series of bad events that followed, many of the OPGs that failed, families that had financially failed, etc. And it's not just small farms because if you take just an economic bill, small farms from 15 to 20 throats are long-term economically unsustainable without clear subsidies and help unless they're teaming up but then it means they have more throats and some producers who had more throats, so those who had farms survived here in my area, but some have also failed again because of the reinvestment, because certain things were promised, because they were told that it was a strategic commitment of a state that was obviously not. In order to avoid such a case in the future, I believe that in the public debate, in this Croatian Parliament and in the wider debate, we can adopt a strategy for the development of agriculture, agree on it and then work on it together. Unfortunately, we had an example of the education development strategy, which was irrelevant to what the government was bringing, but the HDZ colleagues invested a whole series of remarks and proposals, all of them adopted as far as I know because they all had heads and tails and were eventually restrained. Now they are actively working on the strategy not to be implemented. So until there is a culture of consensus about some important things for Croatia, I'm afraid we won't go forward and agriculture and the economy certainly think they should be one of those.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75195	Thank you. Now, the closing statement on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club will have a respected representative, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75196	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, it is a very important Law on the OPG, the fact that he was not a minister here all day and for months he was just talking about this law that apparently was written under some coalition trade agreement that absolutely doesn't make sense either to protect family economies or traditions but that, in this law, Article 9 practically allows a stranger to have with us the OPG and not to have, means here he, what a Croatian citizen, must have a residence, and he doesn't need a residence, a stranger, so what article is that? Who gets that? Is this suitable for traditional production, for our families, or is this some kind of coalition agreement? If the coalition agreement is, then publicly state, come here before this assembly and do not again, this Article 9, this amendment will be addressed, not after you have allowed the 2020 Agricultural Land Act which foreigners can buy in this way you have allowed foreigners to have the OPG but are discriminated against by Croats, Croatian citizens. So Croatian citizens of OPG should be encouraged, peasant and village, in fact he is discriminated against. This is a discriminatory law against Croatian peasants. And Croatian rural space. I expect you to, and I'm sorry again, you've had a few times the minister's been called, there's nothing more specific than this, only if there's no God give worse, but as far as work goes, he's got no more work than the O.P.G. at this point. The conditions you set, meaning administrative barriers, the money you're going to have to give to the administration, and the OPGs are going to have a lot more work to do now, the only thing you're going to be in love with, but of course again based on coalition agreements, to have your hands on the OPG, so this is a national matter, this is a national policy, the national interest of demographicism in this area. So this demographic measure must be not a Croatian peasant to be discriminated against by a stranger. And you've very zealously arranged it here and there you'll get an amendment from the MOST club where you clearly state the amount, sanctions, i.e. What are the sanctions in that norm, 15 000 kuna, I think. Of course, you have little because you need to charge money for all those who will now be employed under the SDSS, HDZ, Milan Bandić and HNS coalition agreement, of course. You have too much of that obligation and you'll have to deal with it that way because it's simply against the peasants. This is discrimination against Croatian villages and Croatian citizens in the area, regardless of the minority, the Serbian national who has a residence in Croatia or whether it was Croatian citizens or Hungarians in Croatia, this is a discriminatory law against those people who are fighting in those areas where I live with them together, favouring certain groups, of course, interested groups to take over what you have purposed since 2020 with agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. It is just high treason and of course this is one of the laws that shuts down the light of Croatian agriculture. I believe that you will accept the amendments, there is hope, however, your silence, I believe that you are now in your presentation, and the minister who is not here is talking about the inconclusiveness of the minister who highlighted this law as some kind of reform and a new law that will bring something new to the OPG and the village. The only thing that has been brought in for the village and peasants that a foreigner will be able to open the OPG under more favourable privileged conditions, buy that country from which the peasant has been systematically evicted, mainly in Slavonia in rural areas, but the best thing to do is to withdraw. I ask you to withdraw this law, let the minister, read it once again, and in the third reading, if you need a fourth, to solve the problem properly, but in this way, obviously, you are working against the interests of the village and the peasants, so stop it more. And here there should be a minister, to defend what we set, and not by our silence and praise and the PR to exalt himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75197	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75198	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, you are now on several occasions in the range here, now in the final, in the name of the club, warning the art. 9th to which foreigners may also be holders of the OPG in the Republic of Croatia. What I see as a danger, and we also warned about the Agricultural Land Act, is the price of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. We're, I think I saw it on a farm show, one example is good. A man came here from the Netherlands with his family and took several acres of land and engaged in organic production. He says that in the Netherlands, such a hectare of land costs 15000 euros. These are the things we need to take care of. I think the ministry doesn't care enough, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is also through these previous discussions, when we talk about the agriculture strategy, we actually, that main resort, and that's our agricultural land, we don't care enough about it. I don't see that danger, yes, the scene phobic that foreigners would now be a danger to Croatian agriculture, if they come to start businesses, but I see in the essence of the OPG, where the OPG forgets to represent 1 man, the OPG holder, a natural person. And now actually, if a stranger comes with that intention to establish here, the OPG has a residence, but I don't see that sense or the spirit of the law. Then what's the point? It can happen to us that most O.P.G.s are single, and even if they're strangers, then it's all going to be one wrong picture together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75199	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75200	We're not talking about attacking strangers, foreign individuals who would have an O.P.G. However, they must have not only a residence here, but must have a place of residence, an excuse, a place of residence, and not just a place of residence. Which is why Croatian citizens have to have one condition, harder, and the foreigners are comfortable here, with foreign natural persons, that they may have. It can be good and examples, it can be people who will come here, live, produce, create a new value... And we don't have a problem with that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we have a problem, as we should not have a residence but only a residence until our citizens can't stay... Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I can't find it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's a guess, this law is so made and so is the country, essentially the Agricultural Land Act is prepared for the final act, for the final blow to Croatian agriculture, of course the Minister did it, sharply, knowingly, because if he hadn't, he would have been here defending this law and certainly not showing up. I don't see any reason not to come before parliamentary deputies, because in the end, we, MPs, are going to have to vote under this law, which means it's discriminatory to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e.. for those who have a place of residence. A place to live, and they have nothing but a place to stay. Therefore, I expect this law to withdraw, consider, I guess we have submitted amendments, which can change this, but it is so bad that very little sea changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75201	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Jecko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75202	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, I see again that you are not, you do not want to understand what I was talking about. Since you're behind the pay phone, I have an impression, and I don't think you've addressed me solely to me, or to the club of attorneys I belong to, or to the national minority I belong to. I was talking about the fact that I think it's perfectly normal for Croatian citizens who have real estate in the Republic of Croatia to have no residence in Croatia, that they can start an OPG. And there aren't any hidden and sacrilegious actions between coalition partners. That is my responsibility, despite your insinuations. In addition, did you not, from the debate so far, realize that a number of MPs, which are conditionally said to belong to the opposition, also expressed affirmably on this law and I assume that it will be possible for them to vote. So which one is it, then, which coalition agreement are we going to talk about?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75203	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75204	... My colleagues, as agreed by you and you are part of the majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're not a minority in this case. You are the majority in this House, do you accept that when you are part of the majority. And that you are as responsible as HDZ, you as leader and Mr. Varda, you are responsible for this part of the law. In this case, I am in the minority and my colleagues in opposition, we have the right to propose. And the proposal that you have made here, which is why, as part of the majority, you say it's something to the minority, I'm sorry for the minority, my neighbours of Serbian nationality that ethnic businessmen don't care about for years. For years they don't care, politics hasn't looked at them, I live with these people, and I know how I live and how they live. This is a problem and this is discrimination against these people and Serbian nationality and Croatian nationality, Croatian citizens living here, guessing who knows who. I know what you agreed, I don't think you should assume, but say it openly, that was our condition, but you won't say it, you won't. And then you say you didn't realize, I realized everything, it's clear that citizens who are not Croatian citizens can open the OPG without residence, and Croatian citizens can't do that in the Republic of Croatia. So it's clear to me, to the people of the Serbian national minority, most of you I'm telling you, you're here most of the time full of ethnic businessmen. I'm telling you this from the field that I'm going around, and I was the other day in the Straight Wheels, and they're full of hats looking at you. From most, most, you realize that most of you are not insulting you, that's your choice, your right to coalition SDSS, HDZ, HNS, HRAST, that's your right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75205	Thank you very much. The next final word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will be Ivan Shuker's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I answered the closing word on behalf of the HDZ Club because now I really don't understand if we have any other law in HDZ, whether this Article 9th paragraph of the law that has a HDZ club is anything different than the others. So I will quote it for the record: "Natural persons resident in the territory of another EU Member State or signatories of the Agreement on the European Economic Economy and the Swiss Confederation, if they have the right to use production resources on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, may carry out the economic activity of agriculture in the organisational form of the CAP in accordance with the provisions of this law." And as I said in my debate, I have not been informed that today since the morning of BiH and Serbia have become EU members. So two things I want to point out here, as those EU members Switzerland and the confederates can do in Croatia, so Croats can do in the same way in these EU member states. Comrades and colleagues, are you saying that all these fellow citizens of ours who unfortunately had to go that they needed to lower the ramp so they wouldn't go out? So let's watch this item as it says, not as one would like to write. And secondly, I now do not understand if Croatian peasants do not produce in Croatia under these conditions, how will someone from Switzerland or elsewhere come and will produce in Croatia under the same conditions? I'm just quoting Article 9(2), nothing else, I'm just quoting him, he's who he is. Now that someone else wants to be like that, it's another pair of shoes. The same story is going through today with land markings, etc., in the Arkod map all the land is marked and they need not be marked with anything, and what the law says is about some sales places and somewhere else. The logical thing is if you come to some fair that on the stand it has to be that these are the products of that and that OPG, it's an elemental thing. But I'm saying, there's still a lot of things to explain, but I felt the need to report this, so I'm saying, if someone gives me an example that this Article 9(2) is somewhere else written, there's no problem. And we can only talk about it, all other stories are a matter of politics and that's what's not good. And the other thing, whether anyone liked it or not, Croatia signed some agreements, Croatia wanted to be an EU member and must behave accordingly. Take it now that someone tells our people who are Germany, Ireland or somewhere else, let's go outside and you have no right to work here no matter what you're a member of the EU. So let's be serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75207	Thank you very much. Since we planned till 16:30 we'll be working now we'll stop. Replicas, Replica replies and the final word of the promoter will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., and after that will be the point Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2016. Have a good afternoon and evening. Session adjourned at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75208	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work where we left off yesterday, the Final Proposal of the Family Agricultural Act. We have a few more replicas and final exposure. But before that, I see a few hands in the air. He's his first colleague, Peja Grbin. Let's move on to the debate. Dear colleague Sagar, replica of his colleague Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75210	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, it's been a while now, all night long, but I remember what I remember. You have read very carefully Article 9(2) and there is no dispute at all. It makes sense to me. I warned that in my first reading. We say foreign citizens can establish a family agricultural economy. Maybe we don't have these mechanisms right now, because the family agricultural economy is so defined. He can be founded by a natural person. Comrade Shuker, please listen to me because you wouldn't, because we have to do this. A natural person establishes a family agricultural economy. That might be a little bit of a problem. Because we had this very slow in Croatian society, which is family, is one person family. And now what really bothers me? If Franjo Franjic comes from the Netherlands alone, he is a single man, a natural person and creates that family economy, and he has no family to look after. Okay, can a man say I'm gonna get married here, he doesn't have a family. I don't have to believe that he has honest intentions. So he may want to achieve some benefits through this family economy, because the family economy has an advantage in the assignment of land, in this, in that. Let me put it this way. Let him start a farm, start a corporate economy, any kind of, uh, d.o.o. Have him set up a craftsmanship. But I don't understand why a single stranger can start a family farm. Maybe that's it. Now we can ask why someone who has a residence here can? Well, because we assume it's a generation, that the man who lives in that area stays there, that his family will stay there. And there's this whole misunderstanding. The Ministry explained in their explanation, I agree with you here. If we can't ban it, we can't, can we? It's a frame. Only then do we come to this logical conflict. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75211	Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75212	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I understand your concern but I would also like to ask that we all read what is stated in Article 9(2). I will read to you only one segment of the Agreement on European Economic Area, which is what you have in this agreement, among other things, and reciprocity, as many Croats in Croatia can in another country. Another thing, no one who, based on Article 9(2), acquires the right to establish an OPG cannot establish it under different conditions than those of Croatian citizens. So we've entered a space where freedom of movement is capital, freedom of movement of labour, and if we want something for ourselves, we can't deny someone else. So I was just trying to explain it. I say, I fully understand your fear, you come from an area where agriculture is intense, that a lot of agricultural land, but we also need to understand that there are certain acts that are signed and certain rules of the game. Now, you can't play one game and apply certain segments of the rules that suit you. But there's another thing, we have a thousand and one way to protect ourselves and our own from this. The other thing, if our lovers are running from the ground, I can't work, so as someone from the outside will have to rent, they'll have to do this, they'll have to do what's worth it to him. So this is just the basis for reviving the Croatian village, Croatian agriculture. I see this law as such, and I think it will take a lot of other laws to make this story stronger. We should view this law as a basis for doing something and yesterday my intervention on behalf of the club was, for the last five minutes, exclusively to comment on this article together, Article 9(2), as it is, rather than on how we would like someone to like it. And we are here to pass laws in favour of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75213	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Shuker. Now he would beg his colleague Panenic, his turn is now a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75214	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shucker. Yesterday, we were in the middle of decommissioning the issue of residence and residence. Why does this approach bother me personally because it is different again, and the fact that a Croatian citizen can also have you staying somewhere else. Well, either the MPs themselves or when I was a minister, if I spend more time in Zagreb, I have an obligation to report my residence, and my OPG must still be registered at my place of residence, so the place of Berak. What's going on? In order to apply for direct payments, here's the secretary of state who knows very well, where do I report? It's at the branch where he's registered. So I'm obliged to go there, but it can be mailed, but whatever happens, I have to go to Vukovar and report it. So I have no choice as a foreign citizen who will come to Zagreb and he will report the OPG based on his residence in Zagreb, so he is given this opportunity. I'm only talking about one discrimination that we've been put into, so make progress so that on the basis of the residence we can have reported, is that if, on the basis of the residence, I'm applying to the Tax Administration which is unique where this system is also granted direct support as well, then I don't see any reason to decompose us in some way. There was also a colleague of Jeck's who asked about those who weren't in that space, and they have property, what about them? They'd probably want to come here and start, but what model are we going to, they can't understand what they're calling for. I'm just saying why for EU citizens other than the Republic of Croatia is one rule, for us it's another. So let's be one-of-a-kind about it if you can stay, give us a place to stay, too... a place to stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75215	My colleague Shuker's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75216	Thank you very much. I reiterated yesterday that as far as I know, Serbia and BiH did not become members of the EU or the Swiss Federation yesterday, therefore this Article does not apply to this Article. However, when I was saying that we would probably need a series of other laws to change, you forgot to mention the key law in this debate, which is the Law on foreigners that defines something else. This is to say the economic law and it defines the rights that have been acquired by certain agreements signed at the time of Croatia's accession or when the EU has joined, so this is economic law. And the regulation of what you're talking about is the Foreign Law, it clearly defines it. You have even a provision in the Income Tax Act, so if you stay somewhere in 182 days you are a taxpayer of income tax where you stay for 182 days, so you can't just watch segmentally. There is a right here, but certain other obligations stem from some other laws. So no one in the Income Tax Act is a taxpayer of income tax at the end of the year when he submits a tax application in Croatia or in his country of origin will look at the provision of Article 9(2) but will look at the provision of the General Tax Act and the Tax on Income Act, and Article 9(2) only defines something which is an agreement and which is also based on the reciprocity of Croatian citizens in another country, so it is completely that. But some other laws regulate what you're talking about. And so I understand your fear and understanding that maybe someone has a greater or less right, but let's take a segmental look at what this law regulates, and what some other laws regulate, and then I don't think we'll have any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75217	Thank you. Let's go with the last line, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75218	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, this very article and item is discriminated against by Croatian citizens, Croatian peasants and what the OPG... is intended to protect the traditional occupation of people who deal with agriculture in these areas. However, it is a fact that foreigners with this article can base their residence rather than the foundation of a residence that Croatian citizens can. Of course there's no sovereignty here like in Hungary. Can a Croatian peasant in the EU buy land in Hungary or can a citizen buy land? He can't. And since 2020, forbidden agricultural land, and since 2020, this House has passed a law where foreigners from 2020 will be able to buy land, and with this, you have essentially thrown the last nail into the Croatian village because you have only allowed foreigners to come to this land that they will be able to sell with 2020. Why can't a Croatian citizen buy a country in Hungary that is in the EU, agricultural land and Hungarians will be able in Croatia, is that equality for Croatian citizens in the EU, is that sovereign, is that protection of agricultural land as a national of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia? It is not because we are not equal in the EU. Here we are humiliated and you have no basis to justify what you are saying, this article in the Law on OPGs except what you favor foreigners and not the people for whom they have moved out of these areas and now, of course, when they have moved out, farms, agricultural economies are empty and, of course, they will be bought by foreigners. Of course because it was the goal and the policy that Minister Tolusic was, I am sorry he wasn't here and it was his turn to come here and explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75219	Thank you. Before responding to the replica for just a second, we welcome students and students of the OS of St. Clara from St. Clara, welcome. Now I'd like to ask my fellow Shucker for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75220	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, in my answer, I want to be as correct and specific as I was in the debate. You're talking about imaginary things here. So I'm telling you all the time about reciprocity. The other thing and I ask you nicely not to take this as some sort of calling, you have held the farm portfolio in the government as much as in Croatia, I think at this point there are about 40 OPGs that have foreigners. And then we could cut some things off, but when you sign certain agreements, you make a commitment to do something and give someone the right because you want some right to yourself. So Croatia signed the agreement that when I read correctly, not to be wrong, the Agreement on the European Economic Area on the basis of which it has committed to grant some rights but the same rights that Croatia is giving, by reciprocity, can ask Croatia of the country. According to...... May, yes, if the Hungarians open the OPG in Croatia, Croatia has reciprocity in Hungary. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Look, I didn't throw myself at you, I'm asking you nicely, so I'm just trying to interpret this law, in fact, the provision of this item as I repeat it, my colleagues Bulj, BiH and Serbia are not members of the EU, so Article 9(2) does not apply to the citizens of BiH and Serbia, that's a fact. So, I'm just talking about it, and my debate yesterday was final in the name of the club going in that direction, respecting both fellow Sagar and fellow Panenic who spoke here, expressing certain fears, etc., these are all topics that need to be discussed. So look how much yesterday there was a debate about having to mark something, but yesterday I repeated several times that in the ARCOD map everything was recorded, what the OPGs have to mark is the only place that is for sale or for something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75221	Thank you, Comrade Shuker. We are going to the final debate on behalf of the proposer of the Ministry of Agriculture, State Secretary of the Honorable Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75222	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Assembly MPs and the gentlemen of Parliament's representatives. I thank you all for an extremely constructive debate that once again confirmed the importance and necessity of adopting the Law on the CAP at this very moment and the importance for Croatian agriculture. After yesterday's debate which was content and open, I would once again like to highlight the proposal's intention to define this law defines the visibility of the CAP by ensuring, above all, legal certainty as well as the apparent shifts in stability in their business in a way that creates the basic preconditions for their future development. Europe has been clearly defined according to this basic form of farmers, and I remind you that 2014 was the year of the small CAP at EU level. Other European countries also encourage the sustainability and development of the very small OPG through their legal framework. By maintaining the strategic and traditional values of the CAP, related to the conduct of economic agriculture and related complementary activities, Croatia has decided, as a medium European country, to apply the principle of a common agricultural policy through its two basic pillars, priority towards small and medium-sized enterprises, diversification of economic activities and job creation or the preservation of rural areas. Regarding the economic size of the agricultural holding as SO 3,000 euros, here the law clearly defines self-supply agricultural economies from those who have real preconditions to become market-oriented or are already because of their production volume. The EU's principles of the common agricultural policy define that this threshold has already been set at the SO of 2,000 euros while this law respects the specificities of Croatia's agriculture, we define a threshold of 3,000 euros, and this has been communicated with representatives of farmers as part of a broad public debate. Any different determination of this limit, as well as other restrictions, would mean reducing the freedoms undertaken, or drastically reducing the number of OPGs covered by this law, which I suppose is not for anyone's cause, because we want to preserve as many OPGs as possible and encourage them to develop and increase productivity. We therefore feel that through cooperation with other resolutions, we should do all we can to free the OPGs from part of the liabilities from the basic contribution to pension and health insurance, and to reduce tax obligations, with an emphasis on respect for the procedures and that the limits are not determined at the level of the size of the OPG, but on the basis of the incomes or established bases for the calculation of these obligations, and we have taken certain activities as a resolute ministry. Structural changes include the agricultural and supplementary activities of the CAP aim to enable the restructuring of agriculture and further action to reduce barriers both administratively bureaucratically and fiscally to meet the conditions for economic growth and development of the CAPs. The OPG Act provides temporary motivation for one family to manage a single OPG in order to enable sustainable self-employment management of its members, families with detimulation, depletion of production parcels. This law allows for the integration or association of two or more natural persons who are family related to each other to form a joint OPG under the direction of a single holder whom they choose together. However, this law cannot determine the relationship in the section of the Cooperatives Act. Business capacity implies the capacity to acquire rights and obligations by means of its own manifestations of will and in that sense, the law defines that the OPG holder and the OPG member should be a business capable person in order to obtain the right and with regard to their obligations. In any event, such a provision does not restrict the employment of persons with disabilities under general conditions under a special regulation in the work of the OPG. Furthermore, I recall that so far, within the framework of the Agricultural Act setting out the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, there was an obligation of the CAP to keep a record of sales. However, without linking that data to the production data, the system in the control of sales and the fight against shoppers is ineffective. Access to the gray market is overly open. As a result, farmers lose part of their income and consumers do not receive accurate data on the origin of the product they bought, i.e. traceability. Therefore, the OPG Act provides for the way and the keeping of records of production, services and sales, whose establishment allows the control system to be effective. For this purpose, the usual electronic communications channels used by the OPGs to the Payment Agency will be used and the Regulation will define the frequency of delivery of these reports. Therefore, keeping this record will not constitute further administration or red tape. Furthermore, global society has taken many consumers to major shopping centres. This law allows for the creation of normal competitiveness but with the approximation of domestic offers, domestic OPGs to its customers, consumers who will recognise the original domestic and traditional quality. This OPG Act defines in a much clearer way certain relationships that have not been clearly regulated so far in previous regulations. It is important to stress that this law clearly sends a clear message to all OPGs that are direct sales channels. This law defines short supply chains for end consumers. It is well known to all that the sale on a slightly outside the store is such as selling on stands and benches in the markets as well as retail sales on small and outside markets because these are the forms in which care is run by municipalities and cities or units of local self-government which most often help to establish these colloquial benches, and thus it is clear what the proposer means by means of an open label. The law paves the way for distance sales through advertising in the media with the delivery of consumers, sales via OPG machines, sales on OPG premises and facilities, sales on OPG kiosk and mobile sales. The aim of the law is to encourage the OPG to develop its own capacities in the production, agriculture and food products and to provide the OPG services in agriculture and related activities in ways that enable better use of production capacities and better use of the knowledge, skills and work of OPG members. I am stressing once again even though this was said yesterday and today in the debate that the Republic of Croatia as an equal member has committed to legal gain and one of them is tied to freedom of business. And finally, I thank you all for an open and constructive debate, thanks to all the MPs who supported this law, the vast majority of you have assessed it with a quality step in the future development of the OPG, but also in reviving Croatian agriculture and the relevant ministry along with other ministries will continue to work on enabling quality proposals, discharges above all so that the law in its implementation shows all its best interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75223	Thank you. Seven replicas. The first one's the honorary colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75224	Dear secretary, however, the OPG's people who have, who deal with agriculture, are expecting much more than this law, or were expecting to talk to them. Here I will repeat the only thing that has been enabled with some very small corrections, allowing foreigners to open the OPG, in Croatia based on residence. So that's discrimination between Croatian peasants and the OPG. And this is a policy sequence that has made it possible for a recent law, and not a colleague Shucker had just said that the ministry is ours, not so long ago, so this minister has put forward a bill where the country will be able to sell to foreigners, the foreigners will be able to own both natural and legal persons. And this law allowed them to be O.P.G. Not against strangers that they can open up a company, nobody's against it, they're developing a company, we're talking about family economies, agriculturals. You brought a Croatian peasant into an unequal position here. You haven't said a word about it. What my colleague Shuker was saying earlier, it's absolutely not what we're saying. Here, a Croatian peasant has been brought into an unequal position within the EU. So we will take an example with the Hungarians because the Croatian peasant cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary and the Hungarian peasant in Croatia can. And now you have allowed them to open the OPG with a residence and while the Croatian peasant must also have a residence. However, since you have largely evicted all peasants with your current policy, of course this is the last nail in the coffin of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75225	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75226	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj, I would first of all like to repeat that the Agricultural Land Act defines clear criteria under which the OPGs, i.e. young OPG holders, have priority over all other forms of agricultural holdings. You listed this as a fact that they're in an unequal position, I'm in that understanding. By 2020, it is a ban on selling the country to foreigners, and the Republic of Croatia will apply for an extension of this moratorium by 2023. Once again I will repeat that regarding business... at EU level, to apply the rules of reciprocity as it has been pointed out many times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75227	Let's move on. Dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75228	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this Law itself has defined a limit of 3000 euros of SO and thus, and some 100,000 OPG figures will not be covered, they will not be obliged to be covered, and therefore your own finding that this will make the market better regulated, especially retailly in the markets, and that will not happen. Still, all the O.P.G.s, whoever wants, can go to the market, can sell. In this way, only one part is regulated, but nothing is diminished or there is a tendency to reduce something in the future. So, here, that's something I think is a flaw because if we look at the Law of Turn, it includes all the twists. Here we have the Law on the OPG that won't cover everything and there's a lack of resolution of one whole issue, actually the development of the OPGs. For me, the personal finding is about a member of the OPG who has no business capacity, in fact that he can't even be a member, it's very difficult, and I think that we are really jeopardizing certain human rights because this member does not assume either rights or obligations. He contributes to the family economy. All obligations, all weight and according to business is exclusively on the carrier and for this reason I do not see any meaning in the position that you have stated that neither a member who has a limited or no business ability to participate in this way. Then what are we going to do about these people in an act contract to regulate them to be helpful? It's a little incomprehensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75229	Replication response. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75230	Thank you, dear representative Panenic, for your question. As regards the SO and the definition of this border on self-supply agricultural economies defined by the Agriculture Act, here were proposals to set this limit to the SO of 6-8 000, so we consider it inappropriate because this would further abandon those agricultural family economies that this Law and through other measures and programmes of the RES, but also other ministries intend to treat the OPGs in their further development. As far as self-supplying agricultural holdings are concerned, they will still have every right to market business, or to sell their products, but also the right to support, and that real name cannot be taken away. So, here is a clearly defined border which at EU level is of good importance, common agricultural policy, good EU-wide agricultural practice of EUR 2000-8000, which is defined for those OPGs that are small so that they can be encouraged. We have defined that border from a level of 3000, we have communicated with a large majority, so representatives of agricultural associations, and they mean, they have given their consent to this set threshold, and we will further be discharging certain contributions under other laws, which we cannot through this law, means, we can define a more favourable position for all those OPGs and small farms that have these needs for this discharge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75231	Replica number three. Dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75232	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Majdak, we are always afraid of others and we are not afraid of ourselves. I'd rather say that we should be afraid of ourselves in agriculture because what we've done so far, what we've ruined, I can tell Slavonia, it's not our other fault. It's our fault that we didn't follow the incentives as they were giving to, to whom they were giving. Of course, I hope so, and I kind of believe that this team here in agriculture is going to do something better. I hope you control where the incentives are given, who takes them and what they do with them. In the end, you have your own grant and cadastrian performances. You see who's been in agriculture for the last 50 years, and who hasn't been in business, who's been in business since the war on agriculture. And you ruined us. We weren't ruined by farmers who were always in the farm. We're afraid of some strangers. Well, there used to be half a million Krauts in Vojvodina and Slavonia, so they raised that part of the world, and they were driven away and killed by a system of Communism at that time. Today we are afraid of people who would invest and who would want to work. No one will come to Croatia to open the OPG and not work. We mustn't be afraid of work, we must be afraid of crime. When we stop crime in agriculture now, then we won't have a problem for sure. Let's go to people who want and who love, but as a rule give the inspector a hundred so control all these incentives that they have the right to, of course, but if they're right, I know about a lot of people who didn't have the rights, but they've had incentives and they've opened up some schemes they've always had in the Republic, and, of course, an honest man doesn't deal with any kittens or any problems. When we stop it, I'm telling you that the peasant will survive in the country. Until then, this is just an empty story. Thank you. And the law certainly is fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75233	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75234	Thank you. Dear Representative Misic, here, I agree with part of your finding that the system needs to be improved even better and this law is precisely in this direction and developed and it will be adopted in that direction in order to make any less sense, irregularities. Here, just one figure to cut the number so-called. extraterrestrials registered as OPGs recently since the creation of this Act, who registered their OPGs without having a basic resource in agriculture, which is land, and on the other hand, the number of registered OPGs is increasing back 6 months over 10 thousand newly registered. We need to resuscitate, and we need to take the right path, and this Law is exactly what the basis means for better setting up means in part of small agricultural economies, Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75235	Four replicas of a respected colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75236	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I'm very sorry, it's showing up again, you're refusing this amendment, just because I'm an independent representative in the opposition and you have no other reason. Your bureaucratic response, how we're not going to edit this cooperative law is completely pointless. Either you and I don't understand agriculture equally, or, I don't know, I even think we're geographically close. It is this amendment, which also recognises the common agricultural policy, which the cooperative sees as an important, above all, small OPG's negotiating performance. We have two types of cooperative, manufacturing and service. A special type of service is negotiated. So why the law on unfair commercial scratches. So you're still up for Agrokor having a monopoly, that he can blackmail, that he can only put on the shelves those producers who don't have that negotiating power. Why are you holding down cooperatives? The OPGs are the same kind of cooperative, but family cooperatives and nothing in college. If one O.P.G. has four members, four other members, so let them join in association under the law should have seven members, there are now eight. Watch the practice, so we don't invent hot water, read a little, in the EU, how many countries have succeeded with this model. Why do you say no now? You say they won't, so I don't understand it, here, I don't really understand it right now. I feel sorry for myself as a man, to be constantly here, constantly talking, Minister Tolusic is talking about small OPGs, so what his goal is. It's not a small target for him, it's still a big player's goal. And this is all he said, cat in tail, along with this explanation of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75237	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75238	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Sagar, for your question, or your replica. Sr. 22. The OPG Act is defined after first reading and common sales, which can mean at least 2 OPGs to be defined and thus sold in a uniform form on the market. So there is no need to intervene and derrogate obligations through this law what is defined by the Law on Cooperatives, and in this way, we believe that we have included quality, all of which were proposals after 1 reading a number of parliamentary representatives through this article just defined on the common sale, Art. 22 of the law in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75239	We're going to five lines, honorary colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75240	Thank you very much, Secretary Majdak. So, I'd like to repeat, the analysis that I made yesterday, namely that more than 2/3 of the OPG has a value of less than 7999 euros, and here I agree with those statements already made by part of the MPs, that, in fact, the ministry as well as in the case of the Agricultural Land Act, prefers large producers. I would like to ask, how is possible, that only 400 OPGs and those of course at the top get 35% of the incentives. And why not redistribute these incentives, i.e. why not give the majority of incentives up to 5 or 20 hectares? I'm also interested in what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing to ensure additional incentives for organic agriculture, which should be increased, for the preservation of domestic breeds, for dairy, for deficit products, such as those in fruit growing, vegetables in livestock farming? What measures the ministry plans for young farmers, i.e. areas with difficult management conditions. I'm also interested in why in the same way, it wouldn't redistribute funds from rural development. These are questions that this law has not answered, the OPG is not precise, the concept of the OPG is not precisely defined, so, in that sense, once again, I note that the Living Wall has submitted 9 amendments, in order to improve the law a little bit, I hope that you will study them thoroughly and at least one part accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75241	Before responding to the replica, he would also welcome the second group of our students and students from St. Clara's elementary school in St. Clara, greeting. ... Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75242	Thank you, Your Honor, Commissioner Bunjac, for your question. Here, i.e., which is not necessarily related to this law, because all these measures that you have stated, i.e. aid measures are already linked to part of and through rural development of the Republic of Croatia, for the development of 2014-2020 means, for areas with specific restrictions in agriculture for young farmers and small farms, but also for certain sectors, which you have defined as strategic, or, which the Ministry already supports not only through the rural development programme, through its 16 measures, but through national support measures. So we also have national support for the establishment of a producer organisation, where all these numbered sectors could see how they were organised, the ministry supports them. As far as the restriction itself is concerned, so on the OPG issue, we have worked this law in cooperation with the Ministry of the Family and it is clearly defined what the family is. On the other hand, we did not want to impose certain restrictions on the maximum, which was 30, 40 and 50 years ago, 60 years ago led to the decommissioning of the plots when it was minimum of 10 hectares. And right up to the incompetence of Croatian agriculture within the frameworks of the OPG.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75243	Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75244	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Article 14 was very careful in this part of talking about a lower limit, the lower limit of taxation, given that this amount of the economic size of the OPG or the taxpayer of income tax or profit is a condition that man can be entered in the OPG register. Yesterday in the debate, I advocated and advocated, and I advocate that the OPGs be given the lower limit of untaxableness. That's when I mentioned the law by which students can make 60600 kuna a year without being taxpayers. You will have a very difficult task as a resolute ministry to fight among other resolutions for this untaxable amount, but the family agricultural economy is also talking about demographics, talking about preserving the family. And let it be an argument that you really see, that it doesn't turn out that one family holding agriculturals that has three, four members has a less taxable amount than one student. Respecting students, I'm not saying it the other way around, but I'm saying it positively. And secondly, you did not say anything in your final address about article 28 regarding the part that a member of the OPG may be a person who is full-aged and working. So, can you expect that part to be deleted and that it really is not limited that a member of the OPG can be someone who doesn't even have a business ability?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75245	Would you like an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75246	I thank you for the question, Your Honor, Mr. Hrg. Of course, the ministry has already taken over certain advances on the discharge of family farms under other laws or regulations. In this part and this demographic role, but not only the demographic but also the role of the OPG as a strategic and fundamental meaning of the form of farmers within Croatian agriculture is important and it will be an argument for us to define, meaning that quality threshold for small agricultural economies, as you have already mentioned in relation to some other meanings of the target group under other laws. In this part, we have not once again wanted to connect this to the lower threshold of SO 3000, because the SO 3000 defines the volume of the agricultural holding, I have already stated that it is part of the rural policy principle within the framework of the common agricultural policy that all those in this range of 8,000 have support measures as well as from the national part if the country decides to do so, the Member States decide to become market-oriented and further develop. Here this will be a real argument for us in our positions and influencing the definition of discharge, and here we expect and help means all of you who have debated in this parliamentary debate that a discharge is necessary for small agricultural economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75247	I thank the Secretary of State. We've come to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Family Agricultural Economy Act, second reading, P.Z. No 213, the proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Tomislav Žagar, Alen Prelec's Alen Prelec's representative, Live Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives of the HSS and MP Miro Bulj. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, with us the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture is a respected Tugomir Majdak. Here you go, Secretary of State. We begin with Amendment number 1 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75249	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant is that the proposed amendment is contrary to the concept of the applicant and to the purpose of the provision in question. This law stipulates that the economic size of the agricultural holding is shown as SO 3,000 euros as an affirmative level within which the OPG is protected, whose economic size of the holding SO is less than 3 thousand euros, so that their established rights and obligations do not change or decrease, and that they can continue to carry out agriculture and, for personal purposes, sell their products on the market and use available support. This law further provides for the possibility for the OPG, i.e. the OPG holders, to be an employer in the performance of the activity. And in conclusion, any different determination of borders as well as other restrictions would mean a reduction of the entrepreneurial freedoms of farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75250	An observation on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague of Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75251	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this amendment is in line with the opinion of the OPG owners themselves. More than 90% of OPGs have a lower value of 250 000 euros and on this side the initiative has come that such a state of mutilation is not allowed to potentially benefit from the reporting of OPGs have trades and businesses that can not be categorized as well as family economies on which family members work exclusively. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75252	Thank you. Then let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So let's go to Amendment No. The second respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75253	The amendment is not accepted. This law allows for adequate integration of two or more natural persons of farmers or association of the CAP through both joint production arrangements and through the establishment of a common EAG. In accordance with Article 22, two or more natural persons who are family-related may form a common OPG under the direction of a single holder chosen jointly. In addition, the cooperative has been treated in Croatian legislation as a special legal form defined by the Cooperatives Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75254	It's obvious, Comrade Sagar, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75255	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State has to be picturesque, so if Pero, Mile and two others are looking for Rajko neighbours not because they're going to visit, but because Rajko is the hotel director and he tells them individually that they need 40 tons of potatoes, none of them have 40 tons of potatoes, each of them says he has 10 tons and each one goes to the conversation individually. And then he says, listen, I can offer you a kuna per kilogram because I don't know how I'm gonna get another quantity, maybe I'll have to buy in Kaufland at a much higher price. And so all four of them sell their potatoes per kuna per kilogram. If they teamed up with a joint OPG cooperative, if they went to Rajk uniquely, they'd probably reach Kuna 20. So each of them would have 2,000 kuna left in their children's pocket for schooling. Rajko wouldn't put that in his pocket. And that's the meaning of this amendment, nothing else. It is clear in Article 5(a) above, OPG cooperatives are cooperatives which, in accordance with the Cooperatives Act, have specific features, focus on joint production, distribution and placing products on the market, and allow for a reduction of market risk and strengthening of the OPG's position by encouraging product innovation, strengthening food quality and safety. Therefore, according to the Cooperatives Act, they can establish a cooperative, since they have members of the OPG. If each of them has, for example, 2 members of the OPG, four of them have 8 members enough to form a cooperative, enough to determine the cooperative manager and that is the purpose of the amendment. You're wrong when you say that according to the provisions of this proposed law they can do it and you'll see in practice that it won't get results and be convinced that this law will eventually change in this direction. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75256	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now moving on to Amendment No. 3. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75257	The amendment is not accepted. In this law, obligations based on international agreements cannot be annulled or avoided. In fact, as an equal member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has made commitments related to the acquis, one of which is related to freedom of business and the free movement of people, services, goods and capital. Provisions that natural persons resident in the EU can register an OPG in Croatia in no way discriminates against Croatian citizens but guarantees all EU citizens the same right to assume their rights and obligations in business in Croatia under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75258	Observation of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75259	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We had a wide discussion just about the proposal for the OPG to be based on the residence of a person, a family who wants to carry out a agricultural activity. We believe that in no case does this reduce the rights of any EU citizen because they can come here, start a business establishment, have other forms in which they can carry out the economic activity of agriculture. They can establish trades, companies, and precisely the traditional association of the OPG with the residence of a person is something that was needed and which was the intensity was also the declared wish of the legislator that by doing so the persons who and the OPGs who are going to acquire and certain advantages to promote this very form of agriculture management. In this way, we open a broad front where there is essentially no difference between the agricultural economy, between the established family and it becomes an entrepreneurial form which also discriminates against Croatian citizens because a Croatian citizen at his residence in another part of the Republic of Croatia cannot start an OPG, can be exclusively on his residence. Therefore, there are fundamental reasons why we have submitted this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75260	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75261	We're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75262	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number four of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Clubs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75263	The amendment is not accepted, and the explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75264	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75265	Thank you very much, Chairman, given that the same one has just been rejected, Mr. Mosto's amendment, we are withdrawing that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75266	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 5, MP Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75267	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as the previous 2 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75268	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75269	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The esteemed secretaries on this important topic were neither minister nor minister at the debate, as they are asking questions that in 2020 the Agricultural Land Act was delivered to foreign farmers, foreign, natural persons, while in Hungary, Croatian natural and legal persons were not allowed. It was this law, i.e. This Article shall apply from 1 January 2018. in this OPG law you do not protect, you discriminate against Croatian citizens, Croatian peasants, whether they will need a convention here and over the body that will control us, which is why Croatian citizens in other countries cannot open the OPG, while from other EU countries they can open the OPG. First you allowed the sale of land to foreigners, you moved out the peasants, and now you've allowed this article. that foreigners can establish an OPG. Let them start the company, but the OPG must be exclusive, our traditional family economy and preserve our tradition, villages and rural development. In this way, in fact, you will likely soon and on the body will be proposed by the Government under the EU directive, to control the takeover of all foreign persons by our family economies. I demand the vote of my colleague and colleague. Croatian citizens have no right in their country, as foreigners in Croatia have. Nor do they have in another country, such as Hungary. Please support the Croatian village and peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75270	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. Six representatives of Allen Preleca, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75271	The amendment is not accepted, the position of the motion that this law should not prescribe the conditions prescribed by a special regulation. In particular, the Aquaculture Act, as a special regulation governing aquaculture, regulates the conditions for the operation of aquaculture activities and in accordance with Article. 9 paragraph 4 of the said law, if the CAP has the necessary water resources, it may carry out aquaculture activities in accordance with a specific regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75272	Reading, Comrade Prelec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75273	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I really don't see any reason why you didn't put the water surfaces in production resources. To put them in the same position as the orchards, both as warlords and as cattlemen. I don't see any reason why it didn't get into this article. 3. and this Article 11. I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75274	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 7 of the Independent List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75275	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment, namely, poses a potential danger for a natural person to use other people's private property, without proof of the right to use it, which is unacceptable. This law provides for the possibility of carrying out the economic activity of agriculture, the CAP has, under the conditions of proof, the right to use the space in which the activity is carried out. This condition is identical to the conditions for carrying out these economic activities, which are prescribed for natural persons prior to the establishment of the crafts, i.e. to carry out these economic activities for companies as legal persons, i.e., it is identical to the conditions of entrepreneurial practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75276	Obviously, fellow Panenic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75277	Thank you, well-respected secretary of state, I would like you to come with this finding as well when most adopt this law, in front of those families, who have their OPG in facilities where their loved ones have disappeared during the war. So then explain to them that they won't be able to enroll that object in the O.P.G. because there's no one to give them consent. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75278	I didn't hear, are you asking for a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 8 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75279	The amendment is not accepted. This law provides for the obligation to meet the technical conditions laid down for that activity when carrying out certain economic activities, however, not to impose conditions in a higher standard, but to do so by a special regulation. The OPG’s responsibility, or its holder of technical correctness in accordance with and with specific regulations, is prescribed to strengthen the prevention of any form, loss and damage to property and human and animal health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75280	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75281	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State in ideal conditions, in an ideal manner, that all civil objects in the Republic of Croatia are legalized, that everyone has all the necessary excerpts, to get all the necessary permits, then I would say, this is something that's a prevention, that something that doesn't happen ourselves that we've encouraged during this past time. Unfortunately, the reality of the OPG is not like that, the objects were created over the years, the objects in which people were able to manage, the numerous works they had done were necessary for them to function. With this article, you are in fact demanding that they have to make significant investments in the current economic conditions of agricultural welfare management, it is certain that this will be a great burden on them. And I wonder how agricultural inspections will react when they face such obstacles in mass, whether they will close their eyes every time. Then this article will no longer have weight. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75282	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 9 to Agent Allen Prelec, again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75283	The amendment is not accepted. This law allows the OPG to provide catering, tourist and other services at the OPG with the basis of meeting the conditions for performing and complementary activities. The OPG may provide catering services in the context of the additional activity entered in accordance with specific regulations governing economic activity and providing tourism services in accordance with specific regulations governing tourism services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75284	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75285	Dear Secretary of State, you've specified it means that the OPGs are allowed to work outside of their OPG. So why don't you put it in Article 13 so it's known that they allow with the approval of local self-government units. Why limit the OPGs to their area when we have some sort of event in local self-government units. Why don't we let the O.P.G.s participate in fairs, events in all other activities. I mean, I really don't see it, if you say it's allowed, then why don't we write in that article that it's allowed? Here's why I really don't know why you don't accept this article and ask for a vote anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75286	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 10. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75287	The amendment is not accepted. The law provides for the right of a natural person to be the holder of the OPG and in no case is incompatible with the management or ownership functions of undertakings. This right is requested from the addressee to which this law refers with the reason that, due to differences in legal and physical characteristics, it should be possible to strengthen the entrepreneurship and business climate, and the proposed amendment limits this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75288	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75289	Mr. Chairman. Since it is already foreseen that a natural person cannot have both a trade and an OPG at the same time, there is no reason why regulation should not be extended to other companies. These also prevent possible malfeasances such as the transfer of one product from business to another. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75290	Let's vote on an amendment to the Live Wall and Power Club that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 11. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75291	The amendment is not accepted. This law lays down the economic size of the agricultural holding as SO 3000 euros as an affirmative level of economic size within which a natural person can choose an organisational form of the CAP to carry out the economic activities of agriculture as a main or complementary activity, i.e. to choose the occupation of a farmer as a main or additional interest in accordance with the conditions laid down in this law. Any different determination of this limit as well as other restrictions would mean a reduction of entrepreneurial freedoms, i.e. a drastic reduction in the number of OPGs covered by the law in question, which is not the objective because we want to preserve as many OPGs as possible, and to encourage them to develop and produce. The legislator intends to use available tools through cooperation with other resolutions to free the OPGs from part of the obligation to contribute to compulsory insurance, as well as to reduce tax obligations, with a focus on respect for procedures in the context of amendments to the specific rules governing the rights and obligations mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75292	Observation of fellow Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75293	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I am not satisfied with your response and I am asking for a vote on this amendment, because our goal is precisely that the family farms produce food, to keep them on the Croatian market. Because with this proposed amendment, we wanted to preserve precisely the 80,000 family farms that have less than 3 ha of state land in their production, which have a standard exit around or below 3000 euros, and to allow them to carry out their agricultural activity as an additional activity. In this way, you prevent someone who is employed in some kind of company or institution from having an OPG and having a farm as an additional activity. That is why we have also suggested that as the upper limit of the size of the family holding whose holding would have the right to choose to consider the agricultural activity an additional interest of up to 15 ha, i.e. up to 25000 euro equivalent in kunas because we believe that this is the size of production that would allow it to feed its family, to pay its obligations to the state, according to pension and health insurance, and if this bill remains, you will not increase the number of family farms. A fair of rural agricultural products in Zagreb has just opened today. I dare say that if it stays this way, you'll have a lot less family farms there per year because it will shut down, because it won't be able to pay the commitments from its production and that's why we're asking it to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75294	Let's vote on amendment number 11. The government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 12. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75295	The amendment is not accepted. This law provides that the name of the OPG is the name under which the OPG operates and participates in legal traffic. Furthermore, it is prescribed that the OPG may use the name OPG in full or shortened form in a manner and in accordance with entrepreneurship practice in crafts and commercial companies in addition to the name and last name of the holder for business communication. This provision is the initial step... OPGs, especially respecting regional and traditional values in many of our villages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The use of a shortened name is an option, not an obligation, and can therefore constitute additional costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75296	The obvious, fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75297	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, through these discussions we have not been able to get through whether, in this form as you have defined the name, it will be mandatory that each OPG has to have a mark, meaning, some, to put it this way, an imaginary name that will be a mandatory component. It is an obligation that will be imposed on all family farms. The proposal we're making is just to make it academic. Whether or not someone wants to have a name, last name and seat/address and a specific name should be the choice of OPG. Those who are satisfied with the current name of their OPG would have absolutely nothing to change. And to me here, so all the time, it's actually a misunderstanding, which means whether or not those who don't want an extra name will necessarily have to place a special label. I in my OPG, I wouldn't want to put it, and there's probably another series, and so we think that this change that doesn't change anything about the content that they want, and it changes a lot for those who don't have a need, they don't want to, they don't want to create any additional costs. Please vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75298	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the required number of votes or this amendment, so let's now go to Amendment 13 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75299	The amendment is not accepted. The above provision does not apply to agricultural land particles which, in accordance with the specific water regulation in the ARCOD Electronic Land Database, and the examination of those land-based land-based land-based agricultural land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-related land-based land-based land-based land-related land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-related land-based land-based land-based land-based land-related land-based land-based land-related land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based land-based Furthermore, the law does not stipulate, nor does the sublegal act provide for a regulation of the form, i.e. the way in which the name of the EAG is highlighted. Therefore, the emphasis on the visual identity of the OPG does not represent and cannot constitute an administrative burden by highlighting the name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75300	A colleague of the Muds, the obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, this is where we go again with the unnecessarily-needed bureaucracy, the burden on the owner of the O.P.G., therefore, of actions that have nothing to do with their basic function. I remind you that many OPGs have been decommissioned, that some of them are scattered to more than 30 locations, and now you are tasking farmers to mark at all these locations that the OPG is in their possession, which puts unnecessary costs, wastes time, and most importantly, there is a great danger of giving the fines that you have provided for up to 15 thousand kuna. So now, on some isolated agricultural land there must be a board, if it accidentally blows out the wind, destroys vandals or some animals, the farmer will get a fine of 15 thousand kuna, and we see that 2/3 of the OPGs are less than that 60 thousand kuna. We believe that this is an unnecessary provision and that the penalties provided for are also too high, and for this reason we ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75302	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. Nor has this amendment received the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 14 of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75303	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the amendment No 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75304	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75305	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we cannot accept such an explanation because when we pass a law, it must be clear and unequivocal in its implementation. I suggested in the debate that you supplement this article in order to make it clear whether each cadastrian particle, each separate outdoor drive, should be marked or deleted. You have not accepted this suggestion and therefore we have made an amendment to delete part of that item, not to mention the part of the family holding that carries out outdoor activity because it can be interpreted on the ground and that is the observation of most family holdings from the field. It can be interpreted in this way that each cadastral particle must be marked with the name of the OPG which processes every production resource, equipment or machine. It's enough to just mark the headquarters of the O.P.G. and somehow an isolated drive. This way, you're just opening up space to punish people, and the fines are up to 15 thousand kuna. We're imposing a new administrative obligation and financial cost. I think that this way we do not encourage what should have been the aim of the Law to develop and strengthen the OPGs, but it has the burden of giving them to make these tables, to mark them, not knowing where to put or not have to, that the agricultural inspector himself interprets whether or not the Law is respected and there is always a question of whether we have passed a fair law for all, and in this way we are not and therefore asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75306	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 15 of MPs to Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75307	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75308	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75309	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Secretary of State, therefore, does not. 14th of this proposed Law, nor Art. 22. cannot replace what defines cooperatives and the values on which cooperatives are based, which is also defined by the Cooperatives Act in Art. 2nd and in Art. 57th where a agricultural cooperative is declared a cooperative of special value. And now to give something away, when I was preparing this amendment, these two amendments, I wasn't making up hot water. This is all in the common agricultural policy. And just the experiences of European countries that have good results in agriculture are being used by OPG cooperatives. It can't be replaced by a partnership that can't even be replaced by an article 22 that talks about the association of two OPGs, actually a family association. The cooperative has its specifics, and I think it would be a good idea if you accepted this amendment, and it seems to me that the only thing you didn't think of is that I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75310	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed, so we're going to the next amendment to the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75311	The amendment is not accepted. This law provides for the economic size of the agricultural holding as SO 3000 as an affirmative level of economic size within which a natural person can choose the organisational form of the CAP to carry out economic activities as main or complementary activities. Any other determination of this limit as well as any other restriction would mean a reduction of entrepreneurial freedoms or a drastic reduction of the number of OPGs covered by the law in question, which is not the objective. The legislator intends to use available tools through cooperation with other resolutions to free the OPGs from the work of the basic contributions to compulsory insurance, as well as to reduce tax obligations, with an emphasis on respect for procedures in the context of amendments to the specific rules governing the rights and obligations mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75312	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75313	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, we do not accept an explanation because of the public, because of colleagues and fellow MPs, 3,000 euros SO standard output is not a win of the OPG but an economic size that is calculated according to... the calculation is not included in the cost of production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 3,000 euros, somewhere, 22, 22.5 thousand kuna and the commitments under this article according to the OPG are the lowest, the base is 550 kuna per month, so somewhere around 6,000 kuna per year. With such a volume of production, this OPG cannot pay that obligation. It is not economically justified, it is not sustainable and we want the OPG to be economically sustainable, to be on the market and, as such, to produce food, food for consumers in the Republic of Croatia, which we do not have enough because we import more than 90% of food products in Croatia. This does not define this basis, and therefore, given that it is not defined, that no amendment to the Pension and Health Insurance Act has been announced, we have proposed to add a minimum of 10 000 euros of SO in this article, we believe that this is the size from which the OPG could then pay for insurance. And we're not against paying, but we have to give them a chance to have something to pay for. People, understand that we want the OPG to survive, and they can't survive if at a total volume of 22,000 kuna they have to pay 6,000 kuna or 7, it's unrealistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75314	You want a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 17 of the same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75315	The amendment is not accepted, as is the case with Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75316	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75317	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's the secretary of state, and you'll refuse this amendment, I understand that you've made such a decision, but I believe you're taking responsibility for the OPGs that will be put out to you, or they'll report as social cases, or as most residents of Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema and other undeveloped regions, take a suitcase and go to Germany, Ireland or another European state because it's impossible with such a scale, the bonds are in the OPG register, the bonds are pension and health bonds, and with that kind of volume I can't pay pension and health. Then why didn't you immediately propose the Retirement Act and define the basics when it had to start paying if it was the holder of the OPG? In this way he as with 22 000 kunas of SO, 3,000 euros of equivalent must be paid by insurance and will have nothing to pay for. How's he gonna pay? It will be completed again as 330,000 blocked citizens in the Republic of Croatia, is that the purpose of this law? It shouldn't be the main objective, and that's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75318	Let's vote on Amendment 17 which the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number 18 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Clubs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75319	The amendment is not accepted. In this law, it is prescribed that the OPG holder may carry out economic activity independently and as an employer in accordance with specific regulations. A special regulation that regulates the promotion of employment, regulates and promotes employment, defines seasonal jobs in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75320	It's obvious, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75321	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, your law does not clearly define what a seasonal job is, although the name itself is seasonally referred to as a matter of business carried out in a certain season. Therefore, according to the agreement with the OPGs themselves and their associations, we have formulated this amendment which says that seasonal work can be carried out for up to 6 months and above which different labour contracts must be concluded, as usual, in some other parts of the economy. I demand a vote on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75322	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the number of votes needed, so we're going to the amendment number 19 of the Most Independent List Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75323	The amendment is not accepted. This law prescribes the obligation of the OPG to keep records of production, sales and services. However, without linking these records to the reports, it would not be possible to establish a system of control, direct sales, and any attempt to fight the purchasers would be ineffective and access to the gray market would be overly open. Therefore, the OPG Act provides for the establishment of a system to keep records of production, services and sales which allows the control system to be effective. The usual electronic communications channels used by the OPGs to the Payment Agency will be used and the Implementing Regulation will define the frequency of delivery of these reports. Keeping this record will not be further administration or red tape.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75324	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75325	Dear Secretary of State with this, we have actually imposed one obligation that covers only one part of the OPG, thanks only to the OPG that will be regulated by this law, 100 thousand of those who are not regulated they still do not have to submit any records but they can still appear and trade their products. I ask you how will you control their goods, whether there will be some special law that will regulate the OPGs that are less than 3,000 SO's and then for them to be prescribed records that will be kept. On the other hand, only the OPGs provide such records. So someone who's had trades or companies they don't have to deliver those records. And therefore, control of major subjects is not necessary. Let's just control the OPGs with such one record that will be at level 30, 40, 50 thousand OPG, administratively you will have a problem to deal with because you can't claim that there will be no administrative burden because that volume of documents so only the system that has to swallow them is already a lot but consider that this is also an administrative burden imposed on entrepreneurs by family, agricultural economies and is not in line with the programme that represents this government where you are looking for administrative discharge, here you put a new administrative burden. So I believe that this obligation will be an administrative burden and that the data will neither be relevant nor will you be able to deal with them more significantly, and in particular do not prevent those of us from saying the speculators you intended. We're looking for a vote on this amdnaman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75326	Let's vote on this amendment, the government rejected it. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 20 MPs of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75327	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the amendment No. 19th with another addition to the roof law, the Agriculture Act regulates the obligations of all those entered in the register of farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75328	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75329	Thank you very much. Here, but what the amendment means is that you haven't even partially considered it because the plan has been achieved, and once again I will repeat before the whole of this amendment that the point is that, in both the first and second readings, no minister has appeared at any point and the most important law to which he is called. And in my view, and these impositions that go to the OPG and the agencies of the new jobs that you have purposed, of course, to meet your coalition partners, we need to expand even more places to be instead of these incentives to give to the OPGs, you will create jobs in the agency and increase the OPG's obligations. You obviously have no intention of being noble to the Croatian village and peasant. Discriminate Croatian peasants. I hope since the foreigners will take over, it is intended for foreigners, have the right to purchase land and, in 2020, because you gave this priority to foreigners to break up the OPGs, that you will once again suggest that you invite the agency from the EU organised by the association to monitor the takeover of Croatian villages and we will continue to protect the Croatian peasants you brought to another country and allow the foreigner to buy and become owner of Croatian land. You have no intention of supporting anything, this is planned, not from today, this is a plan to evict any Croatian peasants, to allow foreigners to buy agricultural land that Croatian citizens in some EU countries cannot, and thus, of course, give foreigners an advantage over Croatian citizens, i.e. Discriminate Croatian citizens over foreign citizens so they can open OPGs, family farms. It's pointless to vote at all. I'm not asking you to vote, because... Destroy the village. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75330	So you're not asking for a vote, then we move on. The Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists of Amendments No. 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75331	The amendment is not accepted. This law prescribes conditions for a member of the OPG. In any event, that provision does not restrict the employment of persons with disabilities under general conditions under a specific list of conditions, nor does it in any way prejudice the provisions of Article 25(1) of this Act, under which the holders of the EAGF in the conduct of all business activities of economic activities, agriculture and auxiliary and supplementary activities of the CAP may be assisted by members of the family household without the obligation to establish a working relationship. According to the said provision of the OPG work, those persons with reduced business capacity or disability who are members of the family household may also be integrated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75332	The obviousness of fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75333	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it's very difficult for me because here in the family I have a person who has needs and one day when it's necessary to tell such a person, you can't be a member of the O.P.G., how am I going to say it? How to say that someone by their work, by pawning can't participate in work, be a member, be equal. He does not bear any responsibility for the OPG's obligations, he does not manage that OPG, he as a member of the family someone who lives, probably at that address wants, working on it, and all the studies that talk about including such family members are saying that it is best to help them through the work. I believe that here you have damaged a group of Croatian citizens and that we are in violation of the intensities of a number of initiatives that require that we involve such citizens in all forms of social life, economic life and do not discriminate among them. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75334	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 22 of Mira Bulj's MPs again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75335	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the amendment No 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75336	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75337	Well, of course you won't accept any amendments and it was pointless to make amendments and proposals and to protect persons who were discriminated against by this law at all. Of course, the minister was obviously not interested in ensuring the OPGs and the survival of those people in those areas, and this is all that my colleague Panenic said I do not want to repeat. I am saddened that by this law that should protect the O.P.G.s, you are strengthening this abandoned village of ours. Not a single amendment that was an amendment to save the village repairing the law has been well enough... you considered neither this one. And I am not asking for a vote because you are looking for a vote is obviously unnecessary and you have no intention of protecting Croatian peasants, but you are favouring the OPGs, not family farms, but continue, please tell the Minister that this Law on the OPG and the sequence of laws and predecessors of their previous activities from the Croatian village that he will be the one to put out the light to the Croatian village. You don't need a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75338	Thank you. Then let's go to Amendment 23 of the House of Representatives Club HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75339	The amendment is not accepted. This law does not restrict the registration of a larger number of OPGs in the same address if their holders do not live in the same household, i.e. if they do not make use of the same resources. However, the intention is to give appropriate motivation to manage a single OPG independently and permanently in order to enable sustainable management and self-employment of family members with detimulation and depletion of production resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75340	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75341	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, we have just proposed this amendment so that more OPGs can be established at one home address because it exists on the ground because it is no longer in Slavonia as a situation for young family members to become masters only when they die, but precisely because of the need to develop agriculture and because of rural development programmes to give young people a chance, and we have different measures where people can apply have separated the OPG into two or three. Father gave his son one and the other a family economy at the same address, so that they could respond to measures for young people and beginners. In accordance with Article 28, you define Article 22, which states that they can join together. And I welcome the intensities to surround themselves... but let's leave them the possibility. Let's not force them into extra expenses with a provision like this. Now they're going to have to do a pitching lab to fill their pockets with geodetics, catasters, and people who work on these jobs. Is that the goal, or is it the goal of strengthening the OPG, to allow them to decide for themselves whether there will be two OPGs or one at one address? And I don't think that this way you're supporting young people to do agriculture, but you're forcing them to reunite at the same address because they don't have the money for parcels and separate households, and they live in the same address. What's the problem? It is present on the ground and according to rural development measures for young people, a chance for young people, and that is why we have proposed this amendment. And since we see that you do not accept anything, this way is not the goal of developing the CAP and developing agriculture in Croatia, there is no point in seeking a vote or participating in further debate and voting. Thank you. We're leaving the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75342	Okay. Then we're going to amendment number 24 of The Living Wall and SNAGA's Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75343	The amendment is not accepted, the law provides for the right of a natural person to be the holder of the OPG in which the right is in no way incompatible with the management or ownership functions of undertakings. This right has been requested from the addressee to which this law refers by reason that, as a result of diversity and in the qualities of legal and natural persons, it should be possible to strengthen the entrepreneurship and business climate, and the proposed amendment limits this right. Since the OPG and craft represent the natural person of the entrepreneur, it is incompatible that the same natural person performs the same registered activity as the craft and as the OPG.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75344	An obvious colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75345	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Since this amendment has already been rejected concerns Article 9 of this Law, we withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75346	We're going to Amendment 25 of the same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75347	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the promoter is that the amendment is contrary to the concept of the applicant and presents a fundamentally different conditions of protection against enforcement which cannot be put into this context by achieving the same purpose of the provision in question. The position of the promoter is to limit protection against enforcement only to the OPGs whose economic size is less than EUR 7999 in a discriminatory manner can be brought to a higher economic size by farmers, and any restrictions on the right to reduce the entrepreneurial freedoms of farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75348	An obvious colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75349	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm very sorry that the ruling majority always finds some excuse every time it comes to protecting citizens from performances and blockades. This proves in whiteness what we say all the time, and that is that you are persistently protecting only one group of people on the market, namely large owners and members of large capital, and therefore all this notorious struggle that you are allegedly making in recent weeks as to how you are going to change the executive law, help blocked, etc. He's falling right on this example. So right now, you're showing in practice that you don't want to do anything to make it easier for the citizens. I warned you during the debate that in France hundreds of farmers have already committed suicide because of debts their agricultural economy has, that this trend has started to spread in Croatia and you are still smart with some bureaucratic procedures, with some excuses and you are essentially doing nothing. It is very sad and I am pleased that the Croatian public sees that your actions do not follow your words accordingly, I call on MPs to vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75350	Let's vote on amendment number 25 that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We're going to Amendment 26 of the Alliance of Independent List Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75351	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant is that the provision in question should not be amended as the amendment has the aim and purpose of the same concept as the applicant. The competent inspection shall act in order to remove any deficiencies or irregularities identified in accordance with its powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75352	The obvious, fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75353	Dear Secretary of State, this isn't about changing concepts. As for the proposaler's intention, I must finally say that MOST is an independent list and has requested that not only be prosecuted, but that it be possible to warn the OPG holders and that it be carried out as such. However, with this proposal as you have, the problem will be the inspectors on the ground because in their actions they will actually have a problem with a different interpretation of this law compared to other laws that regulate their action. Since this is, it is also related to the amendment to Article 49, I believe that work should be made easier for them and that they can do the right thing. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75354	Let's vote and the government won't refuse the amendment. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 27 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75355	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant is that the amendment is contrary to the concept of the applicant and to the purpose of the provision in question. As explained by the amendment in Article 18(4), this law provides for an obligation to make the name visible in the OPG headquarters address and on the separate facility, the operation of the OPG production unit in which the activity outside the OPG is carried out and at those means or places where the activity is carried out in the case of open-air activities. This provision does not apply to agricultural land particles which, in accordance with the specific water regulation in the ARCOD Electronic Land Database, are not covered by the review by the OPG used by agricultural land. The competent inspection shall act to remove identified deficiencies or irregularities in accordance with its powers. The prohibition is prescribed in such a way that it applies only to the performance of supplementary activities which are not mentioned in the decision and cannot be applied to the care of the livestock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75356	It's obvious, comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since this amendment has already been rejected and is related to the same article, we withdraw the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75358	Thank you. Let's go to Amendment number 28, the club of the representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75359	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant is that the amendment is not contrary to the concept of the applicant and the purpose of the provision in question, however, the level of penalties should be proportionate to the meaning of the infringement and in line with the specific regulation. Penalties for established infringements and non-compliance with the legal provisions are intended only as a final tool and do not play an administrative bureaucratic repression at the expense of the CAPs. The fines are prescribed in two levels, i.e. for more significant infringements and their recurrence and compliance with the specific regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75360	The obvious, fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75361	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I will read to you what, in fact, not only you, but esteemed colleagues and colleagues, why our OPGs can be punished with 15 000 kunas. So this way, if the OPG company is clearly not pointed out in the seat address, it costs 15 000 kuna. It is not a board that may be worth 50 kuna or 100 kuna, but then it becomes a 15 000 kuna board. If he stops performing and doesn't accidentally move that board, it costs him 15 thousand kuna. A board like that is worth 30,000 kuna. So it can happen again and again. But it seems to me that when a measure is implemented to punish someone with 15 000 kunas, then he is certainly a candidate to be punished with the new 15 000 kunas because there is no reason for him to carry out his activity and form of the OPG anymore. That's what I think you've gone too far with the amounts of punishment. Our proposal is to take proportionate penalties that can also have an educational character, which can be financially tolerated by the OPG, with such amounts, I fear we are sticking another nail into the OPG coffin and traditional Croatian agricultural production again. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75362	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We are now going to Amendment 29 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75363	The amendment is not accepted with the reasons we have given for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75364	Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank the Secretary of State for refusing all the amendments. It may sometimes happen to you to get it back to you with the same measure, but well, that's not the point now. In any case, it is very regrettable that you have the prescribed fines of 15 000 kuna for some banality and according to the statistics you have offered yourself, 1/3 of the OPG has a value of less than 15 000 kuna. So you're basically the first punishment you give someone, practically an O.P.G. can shut down, and that's very bad. I hope that your sentences will not go on the political line as most of the penalties the HDZ gives people go on. I hope it doesn't increase the number of executions and blockades, unfortunately it will increase, and I hope it doesn't lead to further destruction of the village and demographic disaster, and it will. And that essentially shows that this whole OPG law, which you have brought, is essentially missed, for that reason, the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA will not support your law, and yet for this amendment I am asking for an additional vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75366	Voting, are you looking for? Yeah. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So we move on to the last amendment, the 30 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75367	The amendment is not accepted, the position of the applicant is that the provision in question should not be added, given that the amendment has the objective and purpose of the same concept of the applicant. As indicated for the amendment to Art. The 48th competent inspection shall act to remove identified deficiencies or irregularities in accordance with its powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75368	The obviousness of fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75369	Secretary of State, we've just come to an end. All these amendments, someone's been working really hard around them, trying, and certainly there wasn't any chatter that we've been making here, but we've been looking for real changes, because the OPG Act is something that binds all of us together. Both the ruling and the opposition, if it is already as such suggested that it be as useful as it can be and that it does no harm to our farmers. After all these amendments have been rejected, I cannot take part in a further process of voting these laws, because you are probably self-sufficient. So there's no need for the opposition to suggest anything, there's no need for the opposition to be involved in the work, that opposition that isn't professional enough anyway, that who doesn't know about the OPGs, where we're not excluded, where we're actually excluded from this, I'm going to propose here to my colleagues from the Bridge Club to leave the assembly, vote for yourself, the best law you're proposing. Thank you. I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-12-0.u75370	Thank you. Then we move to a vote on the final draft of the OPG Act, please vote. I find that unanimously, with 77 votes in favour, passed the OPG Act. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work where we left off yesterday, the Final Proposal of the Family Agricultural Act. We have a few more replicas and final exposure. But before that, I see a few hands in the air. He's his first colleague, Peja Grbin.
