ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65767	Question is, I'm asking for a ten-minute break on the work of Croatian diplomacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65768	Okay. A colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65769	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Please pause for ten minutes on behalf of the SDP club to discuss the state of the Croatian Studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65770	A colleague of Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65771	Please pause for ten minutes on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists because of the state of the Croatian Studies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65772	He's a colleague of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65773	Thank you very much. Please pause also for ten minutes on behalf of the HDS, HSLS, HDSSB on the subject of transfer of founding rights to primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65774	A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65775	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I demand a ten-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65776	A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65777	Thank you very much. I'd like a ten-minute break on behalf of the GLAS and HSU club on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65778	Okay. We have a break until 9.50. [[It's 9:00.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] We continue our work, the first is the Club of Representatives Independent for Croatia and Honored counterpart Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65780	Dear colleagues, many of these days are being debated about the so-called In hate speech, it is easy to hate at work, we should just look at the work of Croatian diplomacy, the last since 2000. Here, in some consular offices, the embassies have been waiting 10 years for Croatian citizenship. You have an example of Chile, Chile is a country of population 4 times more than Croatia, you have up to 300,000 Croats originating in some statistics. Here in this consular office there was a scandal that is being silenced today, you have 2,000 citizenship cases hidden and never even sent to Zagreb. And what's the consequence? Were they punishments for that? It's not punishment, it's rewards. The secretary then the foreign ministry, then the HNS and SDP were in power, she was rewarded, today she has a consular presidency in Vienna. They've been rewarded for this scandal and we're surprised why people don't come here and we're talking about a demographic monster. What about these security checks? There are people who have married partners in Belgrade who worked for the National Security Service. You've got a sitter, it's a dream bed, I've got names here, I won't mention them here, it's very well known. And what kind of security check do those people who go into diplomacy go through? Nothing. You've got a scandal with fake diplomats, where they faked their résumés, that's no wonder. A man came to me here, what kind of a country that's a copy of the former state, came to me yesterday after 30 years of working there in ZET, got fired for faked a diploma, 30 years of working, and you have in Split, for example. The man of the Faculty of Law was, he faked his degree, and this is a daily appearance in Croatia. And these diplomats don't answer to anyone, nor do they answer today. Here's who's the gray eminence of diplomacy in Croatia? Until today, Budo Lončar, I call him Mummija, he's almost 100 years old and he's been harassing Croatia since diplomacy, has been an adviser to Mr. Mesic, Mr. Josipovic, who is he? ... The secretary of the foreign ministry in the former South who opposed the abolition of the embargo on Croatia, he becomes an adviser in the Croatian state, imagine that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He was head of OZNA for Zadar County, there he was head of an underwater battalion where the Croats were thrown into the sea with a stone around their necks. He becomes a consultant in the Croatian state and we sit here and play plural democracy. This is unimaginable in countries such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, etc. China is de facto, it is a communist country, it has integrated its diaspora into the economic development of integration, and Croatia, where are these investments? We have 3 million Croats out there waiting to get here and there's a intentional sabotage to keep these people from coming back, not to come back here. Here, I mentioned an example of a man from Venezuela who de facto in the war worked for the largest oil companies, he can't come here, says he doesn't speak Croatian. But the Chetniks who have destroyed the Croatian state speak very well Croatian, they are amnesty and work in the Croatian police, that is just one example. And that goes on. What happens next if we don't solve this problem? Without Croats outside the country, we will not make a modern, efficient state. That blockade, that intentional blockade, the return of those people is still in effect. This wormhole, as long as it stays in the attic of those south diplomats, the refugees, we cannot build a Croatian state and that is the key to lustration. Until that law is passed, at least at the academic level, we can't go any further. And the people who ran Croatian diplomacy, they hate... I'm not talking about the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now HDZ is in power, what will HDZ do before these questions? You know the names of these people and you need criminal charges to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65781	Second debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65782	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDP Club, I want to use these five minutes to warn of a very chaotic situation in Croatian studies that has been going on for a year and has been particularly intense in the past few months. With all due respect and without any intention to derogate or respect any article or item of our Constitution, with due respect for the autonomy and autonomy of individual universities, I can no longer remain deaf to e-mails, messages, calls made to me by not only students but also by employees of Croatian Studies who point out that the situation is actually alarming. They had already addressed Minister Divjak, also addressed the rector Boras, also addressed Prime Minister Plenkovic, but they did not get any answers until today. We have also been invited to the Education Committee by their invitations, asked for certain indications from both the ministry and the university, until today we have not received them. In short, what tortures 1,500 students of Croatian Studies and several hundred teachers is the fact that Croatian studies currently have a completely unregulated legal status, that some of the most prospective scientists and teachers leave the study, that the students' interest in enrolment in the study programmes is uncertain and that the fate of Croatian studies, his students and teachers is in fact uncertain. There is a strong legal uncertainty and impotence, above all a scientific teaching council that has no influence on the formation, I will not say politics, but any procedures concerning the further fate of Croatian studies, but all of which have actually taken over the temporary bodies. So a year ago, somewhere in January 2017, many of the Croatian studies illegally received the status of student, university department, university center of the university department. This was asked by the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the Ministry of Science and Education, in order to pass the process of re-accreditation and had to, within a year, adopt, or appoint a temporary administration, which was not chosen in some way but was set up, whose sole task was to carry out those requirements from what was necessary for the re-accreditation process, to regulate the legal status of Croatian studies and to bring key documents for the functioning of Croatian studies. However, in those years, this temporary administration did absolutely nothing to regulate the legal status, i.e. to meet the conditions required by them by the official ministry, i.e. the agencies, but in 2017, it called for 55 job competitions, where both science and higher education unions reacted, that numerous of these tenders were actually non-transparent and even illegal. It is probably the only institution, an institution that has opened the most competitions for jobs in 2017 of all academic institutions. You know that there was a lot of things there, that wanted to sue one student representative, and then it gave up, that students were looking for a replacement of a temporary head, because in the development of that strategic programme of scientific and professional development of Croatian studies, they plagiarized parts of the university, the Faculty of Law, but also some other parts. So nothing was done to tell these students and representatives of the Scientific Teacher's Council what their destiny is and where Croatian studies are headed. But on the other hand, the power of the temporary body was used to do other things. What we expect is that one of the authorities reacts and that's where the situation finally resolves. I'll just read one piece of the letter that went through the bridge. You know that in September of this year, two professors who sent a pension to the University of Split for the age of 65 were employed in Croatian studies. Those who boasted that they had personally solved their employment with you, did not tell you that because of this, our 7 young science doctors had completed their 27-35 years of life on the road. One of them, a double doctor of science with two small children [[Thank you. Comrade Voter.]] Yes.../Speaker disabled/... [[Intruder: Fellow Voter!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65783	Comrade Voter, what is this? No, no, please, you have five minutes, please. ... Comrade Voter, you've had five minutes and I'm asking you to stick to the line and not do things like this because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The third is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and the esteemed colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65784	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, I asked for a break to discuss the situation in Croatian studies. One part of the problem has already been said by Sabine. It is evident from everything that Croatian studies, unfortunately, deserve their name, because they reconcile 2 dimensions of Croatian reality. The first dimension is the dimension of disorder, the dysfunction of institutions, the dimension of delaying decision-making and the dimension in which it is impossible to develop public judgment. This is all that Croatian citizens live in, so it could be asked for a reason why they would not share that fate with the Croatian study. But this is, since it's a high school facility, this and this attitude would be an illegal attitude. Croatian studies, apart from being Croatian, are also a study. And this means that they are given knowledge, that they are governed by the legality and order of the adoption of knowledge, openness, sound arguments, those public judgments with which they will come and to which public values will enter. It is because Croatian studies, studies, they are worth it. They are worth so much that they can develop Croatian society, that Croatian society can make sound decisions, be able to make informed decisions, and the measure to measure whether these decisions have been made will be precisely Croatian studies and what the Croatian institutions will decide on these Croatian studies. From this point on, I call on Minister Divjak to demonstrate the outcomes and the newly announced educational reforms, to show us how information is made, through logic, through argumentation, because it is a minister. The outcomes of the educational reform are not in putting together some computer programs to compose and edit virtual reality, but in editing this reality in which we live, on the arrangement of the reality in which the Croatian study consists. The Minister now, along with the entire government, can demonstrate strength and anti-cipe to feel this coming and announced system of educational reform. If this curricula reform will come to us as another delusion, and instead of one Croatian study, we will have a lot of Croatian schools, we will have a lot of these Croatian institutions that will lack public judgment, in which there will be no possibility of adopting what is legal, what is predictable and what will develop this society. One theorist, Karl Mannheim, said that civil society comes from two sources. The first source is capital and with this capital comes certain economic and political power. We don't need that kind of society in Croatia. Another society is a society that comes from individuals who realize that the only capital and only power is knowledge. Students in Croatian Studies understand that real capital is knowledge, that behind knowledge follows decision-making and that these decisions also follow responsibility. So the Croatian Study of Croatian Studies Minister Divjak can demonstrate to us what human argument, human decision, human responsibility looks like. And if he understands it and makes such a human decision that will be logical, reasoned and focused on the problem we will no longer have the problem of Croatian studies, but we will have a strong confidence in this upcoming educational reform. If this does not happen unfortunately we will continue to live in a world of deception, in a world of shadows and in a world where we will have to look for a hearing with the soul of the world, and then I am not surprised why experts from the Croatian Studies on the acquisition of this strategic document except according to the second university reached for the mysticism of the religious portal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65785	Let's move on. Next up is the Club of Representatives HDS, HSLS and HDSSB esteemed counterpart Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65786	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I was asked by a part of my parents in the city of Chazema to warn me of one of the illogicalities of Article 56. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools, that is, his indeterminateness. Since 1.1. this year, local self-government units have significantly better resolved funding, will have significantly more income and many cities in the Republic of Croatia believe and the municipality will want to take over the founding rights of primary schools that are allowed by law. The town of Chazma launched the process in 2013, it submitted a request for the acquisition of founding rights over the primary school of the County of Bjelovar-Bjelogorska. Unfortunately, their request has been denied, and now there is a process of democracy in Chazma, we can call it that. Parents launched a petition and in a few days collected more than 1,000 signatures demanding that the founding rights from Bjelovar-Bilogor County be transferred to the town of Chazmi for primary school in the town of Chazmi. As a representative of the second constituency, it is ultimately my duty and duty to warn this and to ask here from this speaker of the ministry to simply scout what is happening, why the county refuses to transfer founding rights to a city that has all the conditions to take over, a city that has since last year introduced free textbooks for all its children in elementary schools even though they are not the founder. A city that is financially solid and a city that wants to take care of its school in the way that they know best and can also be a city where parents are looking to take over their founding rights. In addition, in the second part, that amendments or amendments to a new law provide for the possibility that, if the founding member has acquired in principle a concrete decision of the law, simply if he does not wish to transfer the founding rights to a unit of local self-government that wants to take over, which has the conditions to take over an institution in such a form as to create another instrument that they can complain to someone that the ministry can, in the end of such a situation, adopt a final court and break such unwanted situations that occur on the ground. Here I hope that this too will contribute to the discounts of saying the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, its assembly towards the city of Chazmi, and that the town of Chazma will soon take over primary schools, a primary school as the new cities of the Republic of Croatia have already taken over, and as some information has already provided, taking over another part of the primary schools by cities, means with the founding right of the county to the cities themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65787	It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65788	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club about something that I think has become a major problem in the last two years, which is politicisation, i.e. an attempt to politicise science and higher education systems. I would like to quote article 68 on this occasion. A constitution that clearly needs to be repeated, which reads: “The autonomy of the university is guaranteed. The university independently decides on its structure in accordance with the law." So this is very important for me to remember in this situation. What we have in the last two years, however, are the attempt of certain political options, so we can say that through public action, and through this Parliament and the bodies of this House, they are affecting something that definitely does not fall within their scope and jurisdiction. Here I will just mention protests at some Zagreb colleges that concerned the formation of certain issues of these colleges, which some politicians from some political parties have tried to use to promote their particular ideas and political goals, which I don't think is the way to go at all. I would also like to highlight what is mentioned here about Croatian studies and what is important to put in context. The context is that it is precisely in the process of elections for the new Rector of the Zagreb University for this reason that this debate in this way can also be understood as an attempt by certain political parties to influence the process, which I do not think is good at all. As for the Croatian Studies themselves, I would not enter into certain issues of employment relations whether an employee or a person b, to whom this ideologically corresponds or does not respond, and I do not think it is me or this Assembly either. What I can talk about, and that's what I know about on the side of the processes that take place especially in the formal part. So what is important is that there are competent authorities for individual actions and individual segments of academic life. As far as working relationships are concerned, and the fact that some people are gone, and some people are employed, as far as I know, there is an opinion from the Ministry of Administration that says it's within the jurisdiction of the Labour Inspectorate, which, of course, it is. And if that's the jurisdiction of the Labour Inspectorate, if there were any irregularities we let the competent institutions in this case work inspection do their job. It's not the job of us in the Parliament that we should or should hire a person a or a person b, is there a better scientist person a, is there better works or persons b and I don't think there's just any point in such a debate leading here. As regards the issue of recreditation, as far as I know the documents or the proposal for recreditation has been sent, it is decided by the competent authority that means the Agency for Science and Higher Education... the accreditation board will give its opinion and eventually the final decision will be made by the Minister. So there are competent authorities who do their job, we travel them to do their job, we respect their jurisdiction, let's not interfere and do certain things that can be seen as pressure on the university. What happened, however, because of this political approach to the university's situation that the academic community unfortunately divided. So we've had a situation again I won't talk about which colleges, I won't because I don't think it's appropriate that some people couldn't get a lengthy working relationship just because they didn't answer to someone at that time and that someone had a majority in the college council to vote someone else or to approve someone else and not some others. This way where we divide ideologically, where it is exclusively by ideological and certain criteria who knows which has nothing to do with academic status, excellence, works and complete relaxation of certain scientists, where some we eliminate, and some we promote, it's not a good way to do that, is then they'll all realize who has more people in the university council in the university Senate and vote on others. If there's anything we need to insist on, it's that the academic community is spared as much as possible. If that's not the case, then we'll go back to some other time in '71, maybe even before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65789	And the last debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65790	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's when we have a chance to discuss still in this good time, it's good to discuss some things on behalf of the club. I mean, since the discussion and the debate, which would have been a good time for club breaks, I think it's perfect between 21 and 22 hours. There is no news, there is no diary in 22 going "Open" and then in that term we would have an ideal debate in clubs, but I did not report on behalf of our club to discuss it but rather on a subject with a working name, "How did Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Divjak cover up the scandal and reward participants." And like any story, every story has an introduction, and then it's set and then it has conclusions, so I'm gonna go too. The introduction starts with an unusual tweet at three o'clock in the morning which says the importance of education, then ends with a coalition that is the basis for which the coalition is an education and I agree with it. Education of children is extremely important, education of children is based on the future of the Republic of Croatia, education should be really structured in the way it should be taken care of, reformed, schools where children will learn something, not what we are, we all say that children actually repeat material and it is extremely important. And now the story's coming together. A competition in this competition is being held and a lady is being elected, and then everything is moving through journalists to discuss what, how and why. And yesterday, respected Professor Ivica Puljak said after 247 days from the Ministry of Science and Education, I was provided with documentation relating to a tender for the head and members of the expert working group. And that documentation shows that there was tampering, baggage, false data, that one action plan was in the contest, and with the other action plan Mrs. Jasminka Buljan Culey said that. What's the message to our kids? The message is kids you have to go to school because it's mandatory so there's this captain... unwarranted, but you can mess, you can say that you wrote one, so when you get the correct test you're telling you that in the test it was I actually didn't mean something else if you're going to be rewarded, as Mrs. Buljan Culey was rewarded. The result is that there is a special expert commission, so the name is a special expert commission, the expert special commission is chaired by our Prime Minister Plenkovic, the deputy is Minister Divjak, and in this expert commission was rewarded by the woman who was messing with, who showed false information. What's the conclusion? You can see the conclusion on the headlines of today's paper, you can see on page two, page three, where suddenly the subject of education, our children are all of a sudden debated through the paper, discussing who is, who is blackmailing, whether the minister is blackmailing the prime minister, whether the prime minister is blackmailing the minister. My people, that's a lot to say. The situation we have in Croatia is the next everyone from this pay phone, I have not heard anyone say from this pay phone that he came not to refer to the fact that young people are moving out of Croatia. Young people do not move out of Croatia just because someone offers them a better job, just because they will earn better money somewhere. They move out because they don't want to go to Croatia where everyone swears to education, and then we turn education into mutual accounting and turn it into the fact that someone who tampered with it, luggage, is rewarded for it. That's the kind of situation you need someone to answer for. I think in this story there's absolutely a clear responsibility to who it's on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65791	Thank you all for arguing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65792	Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65793	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the exchange rate used without cover in traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65794	Thank you. Anyone else? If it's okay with anyone, and if Mr. Bully is okay with us leaving right now. Here's Miro Bulj's break he asked for on behalf of the Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65795	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are all day talking and discussing very important topics. I'm glad here what Tufekčić is a colleague, I believe he's now risen to leave because I would have had very interesting questions for him at the same time that he can answer because obviously in the previous debate he didn't want to answer, and the question is very simple and amazing. So I remind you of that story as if you'd let the wolf watch over the sheep. I can give you that conclusion before this agenda point. In Croatia, the key to the problem is institutions responsible for financial and monetary stability. It's CNB and HANFA. I believe the secretary will give an answer because he didn't want to answer sooner. I'm glad he ran out of this place now, otherwise that's the way they behave when their parliamentary representatives at this time until the cameras are on very important issues. I am on this subject and I have filed a criminal report on this crime scene, where Agrokor is allowed 10 billion kuna to use the bonds without cover in transport. This is the responsibility of the Council for Financial Stability of System Companies, where representatives of the Ministry of Finance are more precisely Minister, CNB, who has the majority and HANFA. And now we have before, just before the law where as a transparency controller transactions are determined by HANFA and HNB. It's exactly as if you've given the wolf to guard the sheep. And the Minister, i.e. The secretary of state in front of the ministry won't answer my question. So is it possible for those who are responsible for the economic and economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia that is HANFA and CNB that they cannot get an answer from the man who represents us parliamentary legislators. That is why the Parliament was brought into this position, because the executive power is solely responsible to the Parliament. And this isn't a little mistake. This was a mistake that was a direct blow to the monetary stability of the Republic of Croatia, to the monetary sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, to the financial instability that we experienced last year and which is still shaking, which is Agrokor. Because it had to be a new law. Well, gentlemen, Mr. Bacic as president of the HDZ Club, so here you from the ruling majority, so ask the secretary to respond to this answer as to how transparency and transactions can be protected, so it's defined as the HANFA and the CNB controller. Basic, main culprits for the state of economic, economic and monetary in the Republic of Croatia. And all of that still goes out of citizens' pockets today, where four billion kunas of fees and commissions, not interest. 500 of these fees are, more than 400, which 4 billion kuna banks pull citizens out of their pockets. I'd really like to protest here, speak publicly, speak loudly. I know the cameras have been shut down, but it's embarrassing for the Vice President of the Parliament that the minister, i.e. The secretary does not answer the question of parliamentary representatives. So much for dignity in parliamentary democracy. The government of the Republic of Croatia must be clear to them from Parliament, regardless of opposition, the majority. And it would be their duty not to run away from these questions and not to hide the crime committed by the CNB and the HANFA. The amazing thing just happened. The proposal legally, that HANFA and CNB will control this financial transparency of transactions, incredibly. It's like he's a wolf. We get the wolf legally to guard the sheep, so the shepherd doesn't have to be anymore. That's exactly what we did. Sad and embarrassing of the executive authority that does not answer the very important questions of parliamentary deputies and that this House is thus underestimated, because they are obviously Pharaohs and gods, and that is what most of them here allow. So I would ask you to answer how in writing, 30 days is a deadline, we wait half a year or three months for answers. And not to deal with the Rules of Procedure how to forbid asking questions to the executive authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u65796	I thank my colleague Bull. As far as parliamentary matters are concerned, the departments in charge are obliged to answer you within a month. If someone has not responded, then there are instruments and ways to warn them, or send a rush. And as for the reply to the replicas by the applicant, it is a matter of assessing the basis of the Rules of Procedure where you are not obliged to respond except by its assessment. I thank you for your explanation of the break. And once again, an apology for not seeing my hand before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68063	Before we move to the agenda, just one piece of information. On Saturday, January 27th, the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims is marked when all of them pay deep respect to victims of Nazi persecution and genocide against the Jewish people as well as to all victims of Nazi and fascist regimes during World War II. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to join us on Friday, January 26, at 8.45 p.m. for a wedding at the Jewish cemetery of Mirogoy in front of the sculpture of Moses and to commemorate that day with dignity. So tomorrow, at 8:00, we're going to pass the wedding. We now move to the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, First Reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us the respected Damir Krsticevic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68064	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, MPs. At the beginning of this payphone, I would like to thank the Croatian soldiers, officers and officers once again for the professional performance of all the tasks set up, you know that the Croatian Army is a brand, you have seen that Croatian soldiers are ready to carry out all the tasks that have been set before them and I say so again, on behalf of the entire system of the Ministry of Defence, thanks to the soldiers for the honorable and responsible performance of all the tasks. Here, what we want to do with the amendments and additions to the Defence Act, we want to further improve, upgrade the complete system, especially the Defence Act and what we want, we want to make the Croatian Army stronger, more ready for all these future challenges that are set before them. The Law on Defence as a fundamental law in the field of defence was adopted in 2013 and regulates the organisation of defence and defence functions of the Republic of Croatia. The law has been amended in 2015 and 2016, in all of 128 applicable articles of the law, the amendment and the addition of 28 articles are proposed. The aim of the amendment and supplementation is to extend the legal basis for the more operational and efficient operation of the defence portfolio so that it can fully take on one of the key roles in the Homeland Security System in accordance with the requirements resulting from the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the Homeland Security System Act that we adopted in this House in 2017. The key amendments to the proposed law include a clearer determination of the rights and obligations of the reserve composition. The preserved composition helped Croatia defend and free itself and after the Homeland War was abandoned and there was no vision of it. The process of designing the units classified reserves began in the second half of 2014 and includes the concept of formation for the ten-year planning period. This is the first planned period from 2015 to 2019, 1,700 reserves a year and the second planned period from 2020 to 2024, 1,600 reserves a year. During 2017, the concept of a ten-year arrangement was abandoned because in this way we would never form a reserve. The decision was made to implement the process of formation in a two-year cycle, in 2017 the formation of all pedestrian regiments on other units by the end of this year. By the end of September 2017, the 1st Infantry regiment Zagreb, the 2nd Infantry Regiment Osijek, the 3rd Infantry regiment Karlovac, the 4th Infantry regiment Pula, the 5th Infantry Regiment Split and the 6th Infantry Regiment Dubrovnik. In addition to this, with the aim of systematic reserve management, we have established an active, developmental core. We know, we have experience, so we put people to just systematically deal with it just so that this process would be a system, operational and effective. So in the first, second and fifth infantry regiments, we formed 14 active military personnel and in the third, fourth and sixth infantry regiments of 8 active military personnel. The response of military obligations in reserve in 2017 was great, over 10,000 reservers we invited and what is very important to note, for the first time we prepared and spent a ten-day exercise on the Gasinca polygon and believe me that this whole system, training, people who came to practice activity, was proud of how many people responded and how glad I was that they could be in the reserve and how glad I was to be able to serve the honorable and victorious Croatian Army. These gentlemen, we're going to continue with the formation process, the remaining six units. So that's one small part that we have left, that's two artillery regiments, one is a logistic regiment, then one is a regiment of the PDO and two colored engineers and connections, and with that end of 2018, we'd be closed by setting up a reserve of 20,000 reserves. In support of the above, we normably propose to amend the Defence Laws, given that the provisions of the 2013 Law in relation to the obligations and rights of the reserve are not detailed. Therefore, a clearer definition of all categories of military obligations, handbooks, classified and unclassified reserves, as well as more precise determination of their rights and obligations is proposed. These changes will allow for the expansion of the personal base, to complete the professional and reserve composition of the armed forces and thus allow for greater operational performance in the performance of the tasks. The reserve composition of the armed forces is divided into a contractual, mobilization reserve, and the mobilization reserves, unclassified and sorted reserve. Classify the reserve, is a military official, who served a military term, or was on voluntary military training or in an active military service, and has been assigned a military specialist. Classify the reserve according to the needs of full armed forces, determine and announce the military schedule in the armed forces, only according to established plans of calling for the service of the armed forces, in order to train, exercise and other activities set out in this law. Classed reserves can be called to the service of armed forces, for training and training for a total duration of up to 30 days, during one calendar year. An unclassified reserve is a military bonded military record, over 27 years of age, with no military speciality specified. Unclassified reserves may be called for the service of the armed forces, when military service is carried out in force, and after assessing the capacity for military service and appropriate military training. During the service in the armed forces, the legal status of the reserve, which in the working relationship are regulated in accordance with the Labour Act. So you've seen these gentlemen, there was no problem. The guards invited to the service of the armed forces are entitled to cash compensation and travel expenses, during the service of the armed forces. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We made a decision on a fee of 150 kn per day for each reserve. Second, we give amendments and additions the opportunity to launch additional content of voluntary military training for defence and national security purposes. Voluntary military training, implemented since 2008. at a time when it is not in force to serve the military term. Since 1.1.2017, we have increased the cash compensation to handbooks, on voluntary military training from €1160 to €2000 per month. And that must have helped, that for the first time since 2008. in one year, they also had 3 questionnaires on voluntary military training. Young people's interest in voluntary military training has been increased. According to the proposed law on voluntary military training, military obligations may be directed until the last day of the calendar year in which they are 30 years old. This proposal differs from that of the former, according to which military training could be directed to a military official, who turns 29 years old. Voluntary military training acquires the necessary knowledge and skills to serve in the reserve of armed forces, meets one requirement, to join the active military service. In view of the requirements resulting from the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, this law proposes to introduce the possibility of launching new training programmes for members of the reserve, younger generations, through which security culture will develop, and to strengthen awareness of how participation in the defence of the rights and obligations of each citizen is. What this law also allows us is the preparation and precondition for education, for reserve officers and officers. So with this process, we have to go and our intention is to start in 2019. Thirdly, these amendments and additions to the Defence Act also bring about an improvement in education and scientific activities for defence purposes, the new provisions of the law, which allow the establishment of an institution, to carry out educational and scientific activities, are proposed for defence purposes. You are aware that at the Croatian military school Dr. Franjo Tudjman, study programs are being carried out within our university. So we have study programs of military leadership and management and military engineering within the University of Zagreb. And according to the government's decision of the Republic of Croatia, the study programme, military maritime activities within the University of Split, will begin the academic years 2018-2019. The proposed law regulates the possibility of transformation, the current Croatian Military University, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, part of the university community. As the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education gave the framework for the establishment, so in the proposed law which is the other relevant law, I give the framework, for the future status of the Croatian Military University, Dr. Franjo Tudjman as part of the university community, that is, the scientific institution. The Ministry of Defence organises this area in cooperation and with the support of the Ministry of Science, Education. Minister Divjak is well aware of this problem, because she has been very helpful in working with representatives of the Ministry of Defence in setting up the first study programmes at the Croatian Military University. Francis Tudjman, then, use and use the armed forces. Armed law will regulate decision-making in the section relating to the use and use of the Armed Forces. It is proposed to regulate that the Armed Forces can cross the border of the Republic of Croatia to provide humanitarian assistance at fire protection tasks based on a decision once a year taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic. Based on experience in the current application of the Defence Act, it is necessary to prescribe the proposed regulation of this problem. It is also proposed that the decision to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia should be made by the Minister of Defence for Protocolal Ceremonic Activities of the Water Level Unit. That area has not been arranged so far, and the proposer proposes to regulate it in this way. Based on experience from practices in support of civil institutions in the tasks of protection and rescue especially in this fire-fighting season last year, you saw how much we had a complex fire-fighting season and you saw that the Croatian Army was very supportive of helping our people in trouble from Tucep, Podgor, Žrnovnica, Split, Drniš, Promina, Kistanja, Djevrski, Rasline, Benkovca. Well, this is what is proposed to do with all these lessons learned, and in order to be more ready, more active, it is this law that powers are given to the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces that, because of the increase in operationality, procedures can command temporary preparation in the preparation of a part of the Armed Forces unit just supported by all the accidents that we can face. Then the rights and obligations of civil servants at the Ministry of Defense. The Ministry of Defence shall have a plan-oriented coordination control function in defence, and shall ensure the conditions for the operation and operation of the Armed Forces or contribute to the achievement of the defence function in the Republic of Croatia. State officials and deputies deployed at the Ministry of Defence are involved in important tasks arising from the specificity of the defence portfolio such as providing support for the implementation of the activities of the Armed Forces including training, training, operations, assistance to civil institutions, and a number of other activities aimed at strengthening the defence capabilities of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, civil servants and substitutes deployed to the Ministry of Defence in addition to military defence operations are obliged to comply with the safeguarding measures and to implement the prescribed measures and standards in the fields of information security. This law also proposes to prescribe the possibility of setting an allowance for officials and tenants deployed to the Ministry of Defence by the Defence Minister’s decision, with the previous opinion of the Minister of Finance. This will not affect the increase in staff expenditure, nor will the Ministry of Defence's financial plan increase, but these funds are within the existing staff expenditures. The proposed law regulates the procedure and criteria of sending state officials and deputies to the Ministry of Defence to work in an international organisation, the EU structure, and other international bodies in the area of defence and security, which has not been arranged so far. Also one newspaper. You know in the beginning and in the name that our army is that it was called the Croatian Army. After that, the name was changed to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We consider and think about returning the name Croatian Army, because it is the one with that name that has its own history, has its source, and that is the Homeland War. It is clearly focused today on the future, it is today focused on new abilities and I think it is exactly the brand Croatian Army and that the people love it and that is why we think they would return the name to the Croatian Armed Forces again called the Croatian Army. The financial resources for the implementation of this Act shall be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Ministry of Defence. Dear Madam MPs and gentlemen, the draft law before you today was on the parent board, the Defence Committee and received the support of most MPs with two abstentions. With this law we go in two readings and ask for support in bringing it to the benefit of our entire system, the victorious Croatian Army and the Croatian Homeland. All proposals and suggestions given in the debate will be discussed in detail when preparing the second reading of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68065	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense. Before I give the replicas, only the students of the Veterinary School from Zagreb who are with us today would welcome them. Welcome! The first one was answered by a colleague named Strick. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68066	Dear President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate you on the reception of the United States War School of Fame which was founded in 1904. Annuals, except for American participants, receive about 80 foreign ones, means international participants. And if we consider that so far only 65 total participants are included in the House of Fame, it is a recognition that is greater for you personally, and of course contributes to the reputation of our country. The adoption of this law is a step towards a more effective and operational action of all our security and rescue forces, and we are especially witnessing crisis situations such as natural disasters is always inevitable and the Croatian Army is in protection and rescue. In just one year, the Croatian Parliament on your proposal means the Ministry of Defence has adopted the National Security Strategy, the Law on the Homeland Security System, numerous foreign delegations come to visit the Ministry of Defence, our soldiers on international missions are equipped with all the products from our home country, the budget of the Ministry of Defence is public and transparent and of course all of this contributes to and reputation, and far greater security for all of our citizens. I therefore welcome the adoption of this law and another congratulations on this extraordinary recognition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68067	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68068	... I would like to thank you fully as Vice-President of the Assembly Defence Committee as well as you as personal vice president, which makes the entire committee right in support and development of the winning Croatian Army. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Thank you, too, for the credit card. You know that as the first Croat, I went to the US War School, for me it was an honor and I am glad here today that I have received this recognition which is another recognition to me, but recognition and a victory Croatian army. And I think that the U.S. Air Force War School institution has helped me greatly in professional development as well as other Croatian officers who finished that school. And you saw exactly that school gives you the dimension of strategic thinking, learning the decision-making process at the highest level. Here's another thank you for your congratulations and thank the American institutions for that confession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68069	Second replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68070	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates. Here first of all I want to commend again, I have said this once before, an extremely good example of the government's relationship with the Croatian Parliament where you come in this composition to defend your law. Congratulations on that and thank you. I find it extremely important to consider Article 18 of the amendments to these laws where Article 84a is added to the law which states that for the implementation of education and scientific activities for the need for defence institutions can be established in accordance with the law governing scientific activity and higher education and this law. So an extremely important provision, you mentioned in your explanation how important it is for the system of education within defence and science to be part of the university community. You mentioned the University of Split and Zagreb, let's say there is a special need to highlight military engineering. Now I have two questions if you can answer me right now. According to the data, I saw that it was pre-graduate university studies, if the introduction of graduate university studies in the field of defence is planned, especially I find it interesting that military engineering is interesting because I believe that many societies and many advanced societies are advanced from the field of science development for the needs of defence came to many innovations and many new technologies that we can use today. So what are the directions you're planning to introduce, what are the graduate studies? And the second question is whether it will now be only in this part to integrate it into the university community or whether the intentions are much greater that through the development of science and innovation in defence that we develop and the economy could be an incentive in the economy. Do you have any greater ambitions in that direction? I don't know if the question was clear, but please, if you can answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68071	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68072	Thank you, Mr. Representative Tomislav Sagar for this part of your same question. Well, you know, it's very important to us that our officers, our officers, are educated. Knowledge is very necessary and I think we invest very much in the education of our officers and officers and, as you know at the Croatian Military School, these two study programmes, military leadership and management and military engineering. And that's why I'm glad we've now prepared everything since the 9th month to go and that next study, it's a Maritime Study. And it certainly is our intention with this undergraduate to make it a graduate level entirely. This would close education for all three branches of the Croatian winning army. And what we are now preparing with this law is just preparing for the next step, which is the transformation of the Croatian Military School to be part of the university community. These programmes are already in line with civil universities, but we want the entire institution and some additional programs that we will also set up to deal with all these challenges, we need this transformation and the next step.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68073	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68074	Dear Minister. Your team's all praises for work. I think the government could learn from you about this centralised performance planning. Just two short questions. The first question is, how did you imagine the fullness of the combat breeds is that we know from experience that the military has a lot of connections, etc. It's always hard to fill combat tribes, primarily infantry, armor, artillery? You have an army, for example. Which looks like I used to be in the army, they had a long line, there were no teeth, that's the first question, combat tribes, completeness. The second question is, how did you solve the matter of tactical manuals? The levels of water to the brigade were written by our soldiers based on the experience of the Homeland War, and how was that done? Just those two short questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68075	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68076	Dear colleague, Mr. General Glasnovic, regarding this first part of your question about the completion of the battleline. So you know the fill is being solved through voluntary military training and through voluntary military training you saw that for the first time last year we had 3 instructions so that it was a great achievement for us, that people came forward and that young people wanted to serve more and more voluntary military training and through that part of those two months and later went to the specialist section. We're just making sure the troops are filling in from that pool. And now with these amendments and the additions of the law we will have even more, we will expand the base fuller so that we can fully fill out our winning Croatian army. As for all the manuals that follow the capabilities of the Croatian military, it is very much done by these tactical manuals as you said at the level of a dozen waters, more military troops that they follow the same development and abilities and that they follow all the procedures that are important in training, education and education of members of the Croatian army, so that we have made a huge step there. Clearly, there is still a lot of work left in front of us to make all of these regulations and to make these manuals a function of training and education of the victorious Croatian army.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68077	Fourth replica, dear colleague Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68078	Your Honor. Minister Krstičević, I am extremely skillful that you are the Minister of Defence and everything you do in this short time, you see huge progress, all praises, both soldiers, officers, officers, all others and so on the praises of the Assembly Defence Committee in which I am a member. I am particularly proud as a Croatian defender, one of the many thousands who had to buy weapons in the 1990s, so it is for a simple pump to give 1 500 marks to defend their homeland as I could with my signature, with my participation to witness the purchase and... and now combat aircraft and the complete progress of the Croatian army. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I am also particularly pleased with your work in the service itself where I see the ranks of the Croatian army slowly coming to the purification in a way that those who have not seen or seen MiG's remonts, who have not seen any disappearances, defence plans at the time of the visit of some Belgrade commentators, military analysts, so I can only say thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68079	There's no need for a replica. We're going to the fifth line, it's a respected colleague of Misic's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68080	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Krstičević with his associates, I thank you as everyone else for all the days you have done for the Croatian state and certainly today as Minister for the Croatian Army in which you work. Your work was quickly noticed in the Croatian army, you, in my view, can freely say put together some things that were not made up, which were delayed, such as military in Vukovar. And I'm going to ask you how an economy as military as Djuro Djakovic and similar companies in the manufacture of weapons, I think we're one capable country and able people to compete with foreign military products and also join congratulations when you enter the House of Fame, you're a man who's been through war, passed training, seen modern armies and American and others, and I hope you'll make a great contribution to our military and perseverance, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68081	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68082	... fellow MP Misic on the issue and on this part of the comment. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And as for the defence industry, the military, apart from security, it's our basic task, to be a guarantee of security and survival, another very important task of our system is to help the defence industry. You know that the Croatian soldier is fully and fully equipped and armed with Croatian equipment and weapons and that we also made a decision to send soldiers to Afghanistan and Poland, Lithuania fully armed with equipment and weapons. Here is what we did this year and last year, for the first time in the first month we will sign the contracts after the procedures for the competition with the Croatian defence industry. And I can announce on the following Friday, 2.2., we sign these contracts with over 30 companies in the defence industry worth 270 million kuna. So these companies, these people, employees can plan production in the first month for the next year, on the other hand, that they can already take a certificate and a test so that they can report to all other competitions in other countries. So it is the same activity that is very important to us and we need to make sure that Croatian soldiers, Croatian military, partner, defence industry. So we'll take care of that, too. I also thank you here, and I thank my colleague, Cule, for how much, and Agent Culej, as part of the Defence Committee, contributes to the development and upgrade of the winning Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68083	This is what we used up the replicas. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Well, then we're going to have a discussion. The first came from the Independent Lists' Club, a respected colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68084	Thank you very much, President. Honorable defence ministers, distinguished secretary and assistant ministers. Amendments and additions to this law must, it is time to put the victorious soldier, the Croatian soldier, at the heart. So far, the fact, it wasn't like that. The Croatian soldier was on the margins, both on the sidelines of society and on the margins and systems. This is what we all witness, that the Croatian soldier was and was underpaid, we are talking about a professional soldier, who chose his path, his struggle, his endurance, his loyalty, for the Croatian people, to serve the Croatian people, professionally, daily, underestimation of the Croatian soldier is the worst thing that has happened in the last 15 years. Because the fact that the Croatian soldier of the victorious army was the most sacred thing that happened to her in Croatian history, where an independent Republic of Croatian citizens was achieved in the community of Croatian citizens. Politics is required by this law to finally put in the centre of a Croatian soldier. It's about technique, tanks, guns, equipment. And without soldiers, Croatian soldiers, believe the system is gone. For this reason, I believe that this law in the first reading, which has passed its procedure, will achieve this goal, that finally in the system the Croatian soldier be part of the people, the accepted people and be the main factor to serve the people. Not only in wartime, which prepares for defence, but in everyday activities, along with its people. The main objective of the change and addition of defence is to extend the legal basis, more operational and efficient action of the defence portfolio, so that it can fully take on one of the key roles in the home security system, in line with the requirements of the national security strategy, which we have recently adopted, the National Security System Act. One of the most important changes to the Defence Act refers to the possibility of launching additional content of voluntary military training, i.e. Extending the possibility of voluntary training. And this way, security culture will develop and raise awareness of how to protect and participate in the defence, law and obligations of every citizen. The amendment of the Defence Act makes it clear that the amendment of this law is clearly determined by the rights and obligations of the reserve assembly, the armed forces, which will allow for the extension of the personal base to be fully professional and reserved. The fact that we have ignored the reserve composition, which is not good and what is visible in these answers to the threats of the elemental accident. We've seen how significant and how minor the damage would be, if we had an organized reserve, not just in the event of a fire, but in the case of not so long ago the floods that took place in Slavonia. I believe that the reserve is designed, the reserve that will be held, the reserves that will be tied to the whole, to the security system, from the communication, from the lowest levels, from the local board to the top of the state. That there is communication, that there is no happening what happened during the fire, where the Croatian army, the Croatian soldiers, should be commended, but the system did not work. Unfortunately, in such elemental disasters, you have to know exactly who, what, when and where. There was no communication. A Croatian firefighter and a Croatian soldier carried out their maximum task with the help of the population, which was essentially a verse, such as Citizens in Split have organized themselves. The Torcida fan group and that's good, so the people are motivated by the threat, but it needs to be organised so as not to have unwanted consequences. The training of the entire system is very important, and this key role must be played by the Croatian soldier. The Croatian soldier is also ready for these tasks, but the Croatian soldier, as I said at first, must be at the centre of the entire defence system. The honor of airplanes, the honor of tanks, but the Croatian soldier, without the Croatian soldier, without the soldier who was created in the Homeland War and who must cultivate that tradition, the experience of the Homeland War, believe me, for all techniques of the world will not be enough, if we do not hold, exclusively hold, give dignity to the Croatian soldier, will not help us. So, I said that this personal part is good, however, it is reserved, it is necessary to ensure greater operationality in the implementation resulting from the obligations established by law and strategic documents, as stated by the National Security Strategy Act and the National Security System Act, which we finally, behold, after 15 years and brought to this Parliament last year, because it was embarrassing that 15 years of Croatian state did not have the National Security Act, the National Security Strategy of the Homeland Security Act, no matter what we boast of entering European integration, the NATO system. However, the fact that a Croatian soldier was brought to the margins of society. I'm gonna do that one more time and focus the whole story next to, we're all caught on the plane, we've caught the ships. But the focus of the triba restores dignity to the Croatian soldier who should be a soldier primarily professional, reserve, those who step out of the system of soldiers should be engaged and transferred their skills and used at certain times when the Republic of Croatia is threatened or an elemental accident or some other activity where the Croatian soldier can do much. I'd like to ask the minister one question. The fact that Croatia is a very important and land army is also important for aviation. However, our territory is very important because the Croatian state has most of the territorial seawater, i.e. We have a larger area than land and a very important navy in the preservation of our sea and our borders. As it is now, I must immediately say in the introduction that Croatia, the Ministry of Defence, signed a contract with the shipyard in Split Brodosplit on five patrol ships and in 2018, the Tribals were strengthened by the Croatian Army with those 5. As far as it came, I know it's gone. The gunner's also not sure what stage he's in yet. We must not allow ourselves not to control our Adriatic, regardless of the politics of the Croatian soldier and the Croatian sailor for not declaring the exclusive economic belt. We have here and put the proposal of the club MOST in the procedure exclusively of the economic belt where we must protect our Adriatic. It is Croatia's greatest wealth with land part that we have most of the territorial waters is our sea. I am afraid that at this point without patrol ships, without cannon Croatian Navy is not in the position to perform its tasks maximumly in the protection of the Adriatic. We can't let that happen. And here is my key question from the Ministers as long as the ships from the contract with Brodosplit are very important patrols for the Croatian Navy, for the safety of the territorial Republic of Croatia as is with the most important gunner of the Croatian Army if he is in office. Here I am thanking you, and I expect that by the third reading, everything that my representatives here and in the individual debate will be appreciated in the faith that the Croatian soldier will be in the right place, to be the center of the Croatian defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68085	Thank you. It's three replicas. First up, dear colleague Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68086	Your Honor. You're right about everything you've said with the fact that a Croatian soldier would not be like our border guards to look after their clothes and their bread. So, every soldier must be armed, trained, fed, paid and patriotic, morally conscious to be a real soldier, and these were how you listed Croatian volunteers who were the first to respond to the defense of our homeland in the time of the Homeland War besides many who then sought a way to Slovenia and many others. When you talk about the reserve system, I can say that this is now a matter of as much as I know and that this will be a very important force in a complete defence of our country. I can't help but remember the floods that hit me, where the reserve at that time wasn't in any way organized since the ministry at the time, but self-organized. At that time, all associations of defenders from the Homeland War, from all over Croatia, headed for flooded areas where they helped locals from sandbags to dams themselves. Thus, at that time it was shown that Croatian volunteers could always manage to defend the homeland. That's how it's always going to be, but all of this has to be designed, planned, and I think it's going to be a positive result of this minister and ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68087	Replication response, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68088	Comrade Culey, the Croatian soldier has not been in the deserved place in the last 15 years, 20 years not to be someone who is isolated from the people, someone who is, but a Croatian soldier we must understand and our citizens are part of the people. And if we have to grow, then we will have to raise first of all Croatian soldiers, and the Croatian soldier has been placed in the position that in the restaurant, in the barracks, I had to have money to pay for the food, he was brought into a position that was poorly organized transport, he was poorly equipped, that he was turned into a security guard professional soldier. A professional soldier just served as a security guard. It's part of the job of a professional soldier. However, in order to meet the standards of a professional soldier, training to carry out tasks must be dedicated, not exclusively to a security guard. Unfortunately, the Croatian soldier was thrown aside, and we must by this law return the soldiers to the heart of the story and the pay and living conditions of the military. There are some steps, and it was literally in a catastrophic situation. Well, not so far in military Croatia when I was on the Defence Committee, we all went along with the defence minister and we saw what the restaurant was like, what the living conditions were. Now imagine what it was like in rural areas, in the military when it was in the center of Zagreb. The soldier was forgotten, the soldier was not at the center of the story. And the strength of the Croatian soldier was right in person in an individual who was a Croatian soldier, when it is said it means something now and in the world. The Croatian soldier is a victorious soldier, a soldier who was both human and in the Homeland War and after the Homeland War, and he should be proud of the Croatian people and part of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68089	Thank you. Comrade Ostojić is your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68090	My colleague Bulj, I would not agree with your assessment, which is that previous ministers did not only strive to raise the level and quality of the Croatian Army, as well as the conditions of the lives of soldiers. All of them were also part of the winning army. So you'd use one document that says how much that's not true of the others. If the police officer had a coefficient of 0.8 to that supplement, customs officer 0.85 to that supplement, the Croatian soldier had 1.4 to that as well. Therefore, we need to talk about the possibilities that were. Croatia has long fulfilled NATO standards, or all the work that has been done, I think it is important in the name of all those who have invested equally before that, and here I see people who are sitting, I welcome them here and I am glad to welcome them. They were all in the same composition, most of them were actually involved in the construction of this, so it would not be good to say that they were not working in the interest of raising quality for Croatian soldiers. And of course every new contribution and what is done should be welcomed. Likewise, I would just say that the reserve needs to be removed from that story, which is to reserve the Croatian Army, the Armed Forces can be a substitute for something, which is a lack or poor organisation of the State Administration system for protection and rescue. I don't think that's good, and I'm telling you this on purpose. I absolutely welcome everything the army did, but the moment the army gets out on the ground, it means the system is down. For this reason, all the efforts made during the flood, equally major accidents, crises and the like, should be counted on by the Croatian military, but the Croatian military must not be a substitute for the civil protection system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68091	Thank you. Answer to the replica of my colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68092	I don't agree with you. I don't agree with you in this part where you say we're comparing a Croatian police officer who was also... on the sidelines, but here we're talking about the Law of Defence, about a Croatian soldier, and you know better about the law as Minister of the Interior. But that fact and the former ministers were... The Homeland War Ante Kotromanović I was part in 126, part with General Krstičević in 4, 17 years I was a professional soldier and I know that the system has not worked well for 15 years. So imagine in the ranks are soldiers if lunch salad would have to have five kunas or be a hungry soldier, so much the system cared about. I was in the Military Croatian system not well organized, from Knin to Dubrovnik we didn't have any military, and we know how much the military means in this part as national security. Now we've got in Sinj, we've got a proposal in the records, I don't know how far it's been. Therefore, the Croatian soldier then spent 40 million kuna on transportation from the Dalmatian mountain, and now the funds are not leaving. These are positive examples where it could have been saved, I do not say that money was not invested and as much as it could have been, of course it should have been more, but it was not well deployed, and among other things the Croatian soldier forgot about the equipment, regarding living conditions in the military. It's undeniable and much better organized after the Homeland War those five, six years. I was a member of the Croatian Army and I know this matter. I didn't mean to disrespect anyone here, but the Croatian soldier, Mr. Ostojić, has been humiliated so far, and he didn't deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68093	Thank you. Let's go to the third line, dear colleague of Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68094	Thank you. Mr. Minister, General Krstičević, I would also like to congratulate you on your entry into Hall of Fame, it is a great honor as a general as someone who finished War College that you finally reached the highest level, and it has become the defence minister of a country. That's a great honor, congratulations. In terms of reserves, very long as we neglected Croatian soldiers, so we also ignored the Croatian reserve that was definitely needed over the past twenty years to think about it. So it's the form of an auxiliary military organization and it's been embarrassingly only on paper for all these decades. Unfortunately, the long-term non-organization of the reserve has practically become the biggest problem in order to relaunch it, and because today everyone feels it is unnecessary to waste time until employers also consider it unnecessary to release employees on such training. The question is costs, and of course no cost to form this part should also not be great, according to estimates, as did the Ministry of Defense. What interests me is that the public was very upset about the reserve, you know that... with 18 thousand men, 9,000 were placed in those six regiments, so the reserves with the inclusion of employers' fees will certainly not be cheap. But the particular question, how will the residents who are involved in the commitments in Rijeka react to this, in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Istria have in some way been alarmed and in fact very often we will and would have to work on a much clearer message of the public what these reserves really mean to get public support, not to be another new incentive for immigration because people will consider why they should do it. So what Croatia needs it needs is the right reserves that we remember from the former Okay. Thank you. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68095	A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68096	A colleague of nine thousand security guards, six... is a contribution to situations that are in the face of elemental threats, here I answer to you because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Col. Ostojić, a Croatian soldier is part of Croatian society, as well as in the case of natural disasters and other threats. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian soldier is operational, and mainly with this reserve, is much stronger and should be this coordination, training with the DSZUM, with the aim or organisational to be connected vertically and horizontally, and not to be happening as it is so far on the line, and this Croatian soldier can do so. They existed in the Croatian army of dedicated forces, firefighting, while I was a soldier, so we also worked together with firefighters, put out fires, very heavy fires at the time. And I believe that with the training and organized systems of these 8, 9 thousand reserves, it will mean a lot to, that would be more, but it's a huge number of 9,000, it will mean a lot to the safety of the Republic of Croatia and from the elemental threats and other threats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68097	We are going to the next debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go. ... It's okay, it's okay, I'm sorry, it's for the pay phone. Here you go, Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68098	... Parliament, Your Honor, Honors MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Compared to Mr Mira Bulj's presentation of the parliamentary representative and friends, several things he would like to mention once again. As far as the defense system is concerned, what I would like to do once more in this Visa House, that the defense system was created, all the ministers, all the chiefs of the headquarters, retired officers in continuity. Once again, I thank them all for all contributing in their own time, as far as the defense system is concerned. Today, I'm with my team, trying, under the circumstances, exactly what I think is good, to keep, there are very good things. And what we think we need to improve, improve, precisely with these amendments and additions to the Defense Act, that's what we're doing. As far as the reserve is concerned, there would like to repeat once again, reserves, you know in the Homeland War, reserve units, the Domobran troops, if they had helped, to defend Croatia, and later to perform all those operations, which the victorious Croatian Army carried out, clearly, with the Guard brigades, police forces and all those who participated. And just what we want right now, we want to do and we're doing it, we're doing it in 2017. Now we're going to do it in '18. To establish that story. I think it's the importance of the reservation, big one. It is clear that there is great responsibility in the active composition and that the active composition has this full capacity. However, as far as the reserve is concerned, we want to raise and strengthen the capacity to defend the country and help civil institutions. And this reserve that we're establishing right now, they're just in the focus of helping civilian institutions, as an additional force, if the circumstances require it. The next thing I want to establish, one system of reserves with the possibility, insurance of the process of growing forces. People know what it all means. The third, very important thing, you have seen that we have begun the process of establishing a system of homeland security and exactly the reserve should give us the concept of strengthening homeland security and security culture. And the last thing, which is strengthening, personal security of the individual. And I think that through the activities, through the reserve, that's exactly what we're going to do. This last question, which you asked me about the capabilities of the Croatian Navy, we know that the Croatian Navy is a branch and that the Croatian Navy is in constant responsibility for security on the Croatian Adriatic. And that they are a guarantee of safety and ability on the Croatian Adriatic. I think that the Croatian Navy, professionally performs all its tasks and that it is certainly ready to report at any moment. You know that the budget for the Department of Defense is the key, you know that in 2017 we increased the budget, 350 million kuna, 10%. That it is also in projections for 2018 to increase the budget. And that's exactly the budget I want to focus most on man and we all know that he's the most valuable part of the system, but we want him to do the same thing to the maintenance system. As far as I'm concerned... We have a piece of cannon, which is ready, capable and they are active, but we have one piece of cannon, which we have to put into operation through the maintenance system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And just, here, yesterday I had a meeting about it, to watch it systematically and solve it. And as for the ship, you know that the ship was contracted, so my predecessor, Minister Kotromanović, spoke the ship, the ship was supposed to be finished in 2016. We have challenges, with that ship, I hope this year, that this first ship should be, and now it's up to us, on the field, we want to make it maximum, professionally responsible, when we're sure it's that ship, which responds to our tactical, technical characteristics, which we've prescribed, then we'll take it, and then behind that, you know that Four more ships agreed, then that four ships made. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68099	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club and Honored Josip Djakic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68100	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Defence with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports these innovations and changes in the Law on Defence, and we can say that these amendments and additions to the laws that are now on the benches of the MPs are closely related to the Homeland Security Act, because by establishing a system of homeland security, the role of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is given greater importance, and therefore improvements are necessary in the entire defence system in particular when it comes to training, education, the active and reserve system of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The defence law is actually a regulation governing the area of defence itself, the organisation of defence and the achievement of the defence functions of the Republic of Croatia. It was adopted as a whole in 2013, and these are already third amendments and additions to that law in order to improve the state of defence, in order to monitor other legal acts. Let us remind ourselves that the system of homeland security was created to deal successfully with the security challenges of today's Republic of Croatia. National security strategy as a basic document of the security system of the Republic of Croatia that defines security risks and threatens. The war does not consider a challenge that the Republic of Croatia could face in the near future, but disasters and major disasters not only in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but also in other particularly neighbouring countries pose a major threat to the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are also witnesses of a disaster that has been caused by fires and floods in recent years. The army has always been present in the recovery of damages. However, we have also witnessed general disorganisedness, panic, unprofessional approach, lack of equipment necessary for the defence of disasters, and certainly this problem must be resolved as soon as possible. In fact, these amendments and additions to the Defence Act should allow for the achievement of several strict objectives. So these changes and additions are more clearly defined by the category of the handbook backup system, i.e. the reserve composition of handbooks classified and non-classified reserves. These are the categories that were so far as we could see quite neglected and not functional. Introducing the possibility of launching new training programmes for members of the reserve composition of younger generations through which security culture will develop, and strengthening the awareness that security and participation in defence are the rights and obligations of every citizen. Extending the personal base to complete both the professional and reserve composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and thus enable operational performance in the implementation of the tasks arising from the obligations laid down by law and strategic documents. With regard to improving education and scientific activities for defence purposes, the proposed law regulates the possibility of establishing an institution for their implementation. More specifically, it regulates the decision to cross the border, troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, levels of water and lower. The authority of the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of Croatia shall be established that, in order to increase the operationality of the operation, it may order the temporary deployment of part of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The need for a more precise statement regarding implementation and reporting in the implementing inspection has been established. The Ministry of Defence has established an independent sector for military-police affairs, which is part of military-police affairs in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and thus, as experience has led to the need to restructure and expand part of the jurisdiction and more precise regulation of the status of individual categories of staff. The power of the Minister of Defence shall be determined by means of a sublegal act, with the previous opinion of the Minister of Finance, to regulate certain rights and obligations of civil servants and subcontractors deployed to the Ministry of Defence in respect of the salary allowance and to arrange references to work in international bodies of civil servants and subsistence of the Ministry of Defence. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Defence Act is clearly in line with the National Security System Act. He is a very good basis for progress in schooling, full of young people's interest. It is the security and future of Croatian security and stability, also in preventing disasters and other threats. We can say as a club that this is an improvement in the defence system and the Law on Defence is clear in order to make better progress, to gain new knowledge, to make young generations interested in whether professional armies, whether reservers, whether those interested in further schooling at the Croatian Military School or what it will be called in the future that professionalism and qualification in the Croatian Army would be the one to adorn them as well as now adorn all the results that have been achieved in missions as well as in exercises in the NATO Force system. We thank the defence ministers that you have gone into such good, positive moves to legal solutions that will permanently put Croatian soldiers as a man who will also be paid and educated for his work and recognizable in Croatia, as well as in the world by his knowledge and skills that he can achieve through this law. We believe that the further insistence of you as well as the entire Ministry of Defence along with the Government of the Republic of Croatia will contribute to making the Croatian Army a brand and strong as it has now shown in all operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68101	Thank you, Mr. Djakic. We have a replica on his exhibit, which is a replica of Angel Strike's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68102	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Col. Djakic, you stated in your debate that the law defines inspection supervision and the conduct of the military police. Of course, every control is always welcome, especially in a large system where there are also quite large amounts of public procurement. We heard today from the minister that soon a procurement tender will be launched for 270 million kunas so that the ministry can predict and plan everything in due time, and of course all our entrepreneurs who produce defence industries. I am pleased that lately all public procurement procedures are transparent, there are no objections, we can say a few examples of the purchase of Kiowe helicopters, the purchase of equipment because the Croatian soldier today is equipped with all Croatian products, the purchase of fighter aircraft. And certainly a few days ago, the Ministry of Defence visited, and the Croatian Parliament was also Minister of Defence of Ukraine, and they were having a conversation among other things and related to the problem of the former MIG remont. Therefore, I believe that this very positioning of the military police within the Ministry of Defence and the defence minister at headquarters will greatly improve the work and control of the entire system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68103	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague, Strick, you have well defined that I have praised what is significant and good, but my answer will be regarding the MIG repairs that have been done so. I think it's insufficient for the contract that was concluded on the remonting of the MiGs that there are objections we've been talking about, which I was talking about at a thematic session of the Defence Committee where we clearly defined and called it not a good job and that there are certain removals from the law. Well, even now, five MiGs who are at the Ministry for my information are unidentified in fact. Their bodies have one number, and they're the other. They were in Ukraine and I think that there, and in the rest one officer is or one ministry employee has admitted that he has received bribes and that's the problem when the smallest in line is responsible and admitted his sin, and the others are not. The combat capability of our squadron has been significantly reduced and there is the necessity and need for the military police system as well as the crime of the military police to process all those who have allowed and allowed the combat capability of our squadron to be disrupted. It is especially transparent that they should have been on a contractual flight, and they were brought in trucks and assembled here in Croatia. These are things any layman can say. I've been told by an excellent pilot that the correspondence for NATO aircraft can be purchased in any better trade. And that's the laugh that makes me wonder that such a high-ranking officer pilot can convince me of something that can never happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68105	Thank you. We're going on with the representatives' clubs. Next on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. The Law on Defence or more concrete amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, if we exclude the last two articles relating to transitional and final provisions, has 26 articles, but they refer to the amendments to 30 articles in the old law, so a whole series of topics regulated by this law or the existing law. But I would say that five are somehow crucial or perhaps particularly interesting topics in which these changes and additions are intervened. The first is a clearer definition of the criteria for the reserve composition, which is a manual and is particularly interesting that it is a sorted reserve and which does not classify the reserve. The second topic is improving education and scientific activities, I mean particularly interesting. The third is the border crossing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the simplification of decision-making on the subject. The fourth is the military police and the extension of the powers of the military police, on each of these topics I will return to the debate. And the fifth is to refer state officials and deputies to work in international bodies a different and new way to decide in the case. As far as these areas are concerned, I have a series of questions and applicables, so I'm going to bring out as much time as I can. The first question, for example, or remark, suggestion, refers to Art. 1st Point 15 in Art. 1. where it is said, therefore, that so far it has stood, under point 15, in defining the main headquarters's affairs that one of these jobs is proposing elements of the preparedness of that principle and criteria, etc. related to surveillance within the armed forces. It is proposed that this proposal, this word proposal, be replaced by the word adoption. My suggestion, the technical thing, but the suggestion is that perhaps the word adoption, is not most appropriate, to replace the word determination or definition, because otherwise it would be, to adopt the element of preparedness of that principle and standards. So, as you're going to bring the elements, I think that's clumsyly defined, but that's a technical detail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2. define the change related to Article 2. 19th in the old law, which reads, military duty is to train, prepare and participate in defence in an organised manner. There was involvement in the armed forces, all of them capable of it, of the Republic of Croatia. In the proposal for these amendments and additions, a provision is cast out by including the armed forces, which includes a military obligation to train, prepare and participate in defence in an organised manner for all of them. And I will immediately attach this remark and question to the article. 4 which is intervened in art. 21st Old Law. Point 4 in that old art. The 21st is, when not in force for military service, men, military bonds are subject to military records. There was a point. Amendments and additions, therefore, men, military bonds, are subject to military records and obligations to serve in the reserve system. This is also the obligation to serve in the reserve system in these new amendments and additions. My question, regarding, in the new law, these two articles, so, three and four. This strongly draws and looks like the first steps in reintroducing compulsory military service, which we abolished in 2007 and in preparation for NATO and in the framework of the reform of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. So, you'd be asking for some clarification exactly what this is about. So why in a new way, very discreetly so far, but it seems to me, things are slowly changing in the direction of creating a ground for reintroducing a general military obligation. So, for that, I'm asking for an additional explanation. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 6th new law, the unclassified reserve is listed and the definition is changed, meaning Therefore, in the new law or amendments and additions, the non-classified reserve is a military obligor established in military records, older than 27 years of age, with no military speciality defined in accordance with Article 27. 25, paragraph 2 etc. This law. In the old law, an unclassified reserve is defined as a person who has not decided on a military deadline and has not been on voluntary military training. This is also related to the previous 2 articles that I mentioned earlier, and in my opinion requires an additional explanation, as it seems like the preparation of the ground for the introduction of a general military obligation, which I have mentioned, by entering NATO and preparing for it to be abolished. Article 18 of the new law also refers to a very important element of these changes and additions and is related to science and education, i.e. scientific and educational institutions. I have to say that it was not quite evident to me from these changes and the addition that it is about, and my remark here was more cooperation, which I think absolutely because of the quality of that education is necessary with existing universities, with civil universities, but from the reasons of the minister, I understood that it is precisely wanting to go in that direction or that it is just going towards more intensive cooperation, so in this sense we support that change and that kind of cooperation because it can only be guaranteed relatively quickly of quality. In Article 22 of the new law, an entire article of the old law defining the competences of the Ministry of Interior in cases of persecution or prosecution by official duty and, instead of the Ministry of Interior, for these matters, the future or these amendments and additions should be the competent military police in the future. Now, given that it is criminal acts that are being prosecuted under official duty where, before the law, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be equal, this provision seems a little unusual to me, and I ask an additional explanation of why, therefore, in this element, crimes that are being prosecuted under official duty are being imposed by this kind of distinction between the officers and the furniture in the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. We consider this element extremely sensitive. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Ministry of Defence or the Minister of Defence rules a reference to international organisations. We consider that a very good solution. In fact, we've had different overcomplicated here so far, and we still have them in other ministries. So this idea, which has been presented here and operated in Article 25, could be absolutely used for, say, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for all other ministries whose employees in any form participate in, say, international, development aid, so it is sent to different missions or projects outside the Republic of Croatia. Here it is, therefore, the support of GLAS and HSU to this law will depend primarily on the clarification of those elements that I have listed here, which we seem to lead gradually towards the reintroduction of the general military obligation. If we are convinced of that, we will be prepared to support this law, if not, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68107	Thank you, MP Vesna Pusic. We have three replicas on her exhibit. The first one is a replica by Agent Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68108	Dear Representative Pusic, I agree with you that this bill pushes Croatia and let's say those who do not wish to serve the military to serve it and personally oppose the introduction of a mandatory military deadline because there are many people who refuse to serve the army for various reasons. Some have religious reasons such as Jehovah’s Witnesses, there may be other people who are religiously and are not Jehovah’s Witnesses, and they are simply incompatible with their beliefs by military forces. And there are people who don't want to serve the army, why? So because they see that nothing useful will learn there and that they will simply lose a part of their lives without getting anything in return. And I think that if the state wants more handbooks, I should say, make the service of the military more attractive, give them better conditions, give them better compensation for it and ultimately, give them better knowledge and skills than the ones they're currently getting, and there'd probably be more handbooks, and this way, in the current conditions, people just look at it as a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68109	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68110	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Pernar, so in this law there is nothing to say, in no way intervenes in the Institute's objection to conscience, it's a special institute and I don't see it intervened in any way. It intervenes, you're right, and that's what I'm warning you about here, it seems to me in the direction of creating a basis for restoring a general military obligation, and I warn you, and it simply does not comply with what is in force in the Republic of Croatia, and it is our opinion that this is the way to stay. As for better conditions for serving in the Armed Forces, they are spoken of in a law that follows on the agenda, which is the amendment and addition of the Law in the Service of the Armed Forces, and then we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68111	Thank you. The next replica is the replica of Glasnović Zeljka, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68112	Dear colleagues, Minister. You're very skilled at quoting these articles from that law, but I'd just like to remind you, I don't know if you're very honest with me in your presentation, I have some doubts. I'm glad you got involved in this debate. As we know, all Western democracies have an active and passive reserve, for example, for officers training for six months, passing through the ranks there from... until further notice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that it is Croatia to keep that promise to NATO to raise the military budget by a certain time. And since we've already entered these integrations, the largest collective defence system in history, NATO, I think we need to remember what happened in the past. Croatia didn't have a trained and ready army, it's also for Mr. Pernar what I'm saying now, when the aggression on Croatia began, but many members of your party never wanted a Croatian state, for example. Mr. Budo Loncar, Mr. Mesic and so on. Sometimes some of your members of your party, I'm convinced, burned oxen when they went to JNA and secretly called, wished for the destruction of the Croatian state. Unfortunately, the Croatian soldier defends himself, defends himself because a new modern military doctrine has been created, and it is now developing further. I am pleased, I hope that you have changed your attitude towards the Homeland War, according to the HVO and 4 choir areas without which there would be no Croatian state today and perhaps in the near future, with cooperation with some parties if the state is open.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68113	Thank you. Replica response, colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68114	So, as for the metrics, what's in the law and the subject that I've opened here is also changing, isn't it whether or not it's necessary to sort and unclassify the reserve or reserve composition rather than how the classified and particularly unclassified reserve composition is defined. And everything else you said at the expense of members and not members of my party, the former, present and future is actually very rude. Very rude and very inappropriate to speak to a man without knowing what you're talking about, not knowing what it is and only with the intention of offending someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68115	.../Intruder Glasnović: Truth hurts, truth hurts./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68116	Please, don't throw it away, thank you....
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68117	You really should know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68118	Thank you. And the last replica is a replica from Uncle's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68119	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Pusic, you have devoted most of your discussion to money and reserves. Personally, I don't think there's such a rich country in the world that it can rely on professionals for itself and that for this very reason it's good to study neighbouring countries or countries in Europe in what way they've solved this problem. So here's an example, even though we and Switzerland can't compare, but let's say it's interesting how Switzerland handled it. So a country that hasn't been in war for centuries, so all military-grade men are military bonds, from 20 to 50 years old. He has an army of 22,000 soldiers, but within 4 hours before the enemy, he can cost 650,000 soldiers, or within 2 days, millions and 700,000 soldiers. Their soldiers serve a three-month military term, after which they receive arms, ammunition, uniforms, and all carry home. By the age of 32, they have 8 three-day exercises, up to 42, 3 times 2 weeks and up to 52, 1 per two weeks. So we're talking about an extremely wealthy country that hasn't known about war for centuries and literally all men are military bonds and they're all involved in defense but, of course, it's used for both elemental disasters and for protection and rescue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68120	Thank you. Replica response, colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68121	Thank you very much. So, fellow Strick, I know how it was arranged in Switzerland, but that's not how it was arranged in Croatia. It's arranged in different ways, in different countries of the world. We have one model that has been working for years and now it is trying to further I hope to improve and, let's say, improve, but my question has been about whether these articles are, and I have listed very specific three articles to which this applies, whether this creates a basis within the Croatian defence system, so the Croatian model we have, whether it is quietly introducing a basis for restoring a general military obligation or not. We need to be clear about this, maybe some of us will agree to it, some of us will disagree, but we have to be clear about it or not, so I asked those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68122	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Franco Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68123	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respect, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after reading this proposal of the Defence Act, you cannot really be impressed by further militarisation of the security and defence system and to the harm of civil systems. The country's defence is a matter of national interest and importance. All citizens are invited to participate in it and to participate in it, and so does the Constitution. But it can't only be participated through a military component. The military can and should help with threats, but we cannot observe and act as if that apparatus is intended for a fire protection system that is there to patch up crisis situations because the military simply does not. It is not good, and this has already been warned in the adoption of the Homeland Security Act that the system is being developed in a way that the military component controls the system of civil components, or civil protection in disasters. By amending Article 74, you want to conduct general or partial mobilization in case of disasters and major deaths. In developed democracies, such threats solve the civilian system, the civil protection system that, with the great help of the professional part, I do not reserve the military that is called only to help and support the civilian system, not as someone who coordinates with all activities and the whole crisis. If the military is going to coordinate with the whole crisis, it means the whole system is down, but then the military has its own chain of command and it's known how it's done. Civil protection in developed democracies is completely separate from the Armed Forces, because by its presence it would not only harm itself, but would unnecessarily burden the military to develop abilities and skills that are not in principle focused on it. There is also a tendency and here I agree with my colleague, Pusici, to revive the mandatory military deadline that this House, by its decision of 2007 or 2008, temporarily put out of force in Croatia. Croatia does not need a mandatory military deadline. What Croatia needs is a reserve assembly and I welcome your intention to further develop the reserve composition, to continue on what Minister Kotromanović has started in 2013. But this reserve system needs to be developed for what the Armed Forces are serving, which is in the first order of defense of the country. That's what the reserve needs to be trained for. It's not the reserve army that has to deal with the removal of the consequences of major accidents, nor is it trained to do so. She's not the one who needs to be on fire with my full respect for that profession. And as much as we or some of us politicians like painting with people in uniform or in a worse combination of that uniform and parts of the uniform dress. The impression you're making is next. First, the parliamentary majority, on a proposal from the government, passed the Homeland Security Act, which, according to the SDP, is bad, and now under the obligation of the law, you are changing the Defence Act in a bad way. So we can start in a row. You are amending in full Article 25. You are performing new articles 25a., 25b. which regulate the classified and unclassified reserve, and define who and under what conditions may be invited to serve in the Armed Forces. So far, unclassified reserves may have been invited to the Armed Forces after medical and other examinations and psychological examinations, military skills assessments, and appropriate military training. In my opinion, that formulation was quite fine. You are now changing game rules in some way, so unclassified reserves can be called to the Armed Forces when military service is in place. And after assessing the capacity for military service, and proper military training. In short, you are willing to give up a soldier and perhaps a highly educated man who meets all conditions, but is over 27 years old. That's how you define an unclassified reserve. Correct me, I beg you in response if I'm wrong. If this isn't a military deadline, or an attempt to break through the ice on a small door, then I don't know what it is. Article 25a shall also apply. Paragraph 1 of the Proposer defines who is an unclassified reserve, and you say that it is a military official who has been introduced into military records over the age of 27, whose military speciality has not been determined in accordance with Article 25(2) of the Law. And that article defines who's the classware. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 2 states that non-classified reserves may be called upon to serve in the Armed Forces when the military service is in force. In addition to what I've already said, does this mean that if a military deadline is activated and looking at the complete militarization of society and the dodging of freedom of speech, and knowing that it only depends on the will of the majority in this House, you are ready to call because I read it from this change. A whole generation from 18 to 27 in the army, I guess at once. The message for this generation for 18 to 27 years is, "Work and school as if a hundred years will be peace, and the minister can recruit you tomorrow because he has the parliamentary majority and slowly creates conditions for it." Article 25b. not taking into account the people you will invite in peacetime, I stress in peacetime at the Armed Forces, which are owners of crafts or companies. I'm not talking about big entrepreneurs. Our small, medium-sized entrepreneurs depended on by their employees as they depend on the work of their employees. I'm talking about people, thousands of Croatian people if you want to share both good and evil with your employees and where, unlike Agrokor, tax collectors come by on average at least once a year. What happens when you call a person like that, and it's practically the job that depends on him. 10 or 15 days for both this craftsman or entrepreneur, and when that craftsman or entrepreneur is not at his job all the time, how it will affect her or his craftsman, a company that may depend on 5, 8, 3 families. How are you going to make it up to him and his job? I'm sure those diaries and some travel expenses aren't enough. This is another contribution to my weight on the light militarist spirit of this law. Article 26(3) states that, from paragraph 2 of this Article, military bonds of more than 30 years may be deployed to voluntary military training if candidates for contractual reservers, military specialists or for subsequent admission to the active military service. Behind this is an obvious and good intention to open up the possibility of people who are drawn to a military call, to engage in armed forces as professionals, and that's okay, I welcome it. But non-classified reserves, which I stress, are persons over the age of 27 who have been entered into military records, who are not designated military professional speciality in accordance with Article 25(2) of this Act, such non-classified reserves may be called upon to serve in the Armed Forces when the obligation to serve the military term is in force. So it's not a problem that they will voluntarily serve the military deadline, but how will you offer them contracts...? How are you going to know how they're going to become candidates for anything at all? So I think these two articles are collapsing. In Article 34, point (a) is The law on defence which is in force and which you do not change these changes defines the role of civil defence preparedness holders and their obligations towards the citizens they are responsible for, I stress the duty to provide and enable training through appropriate plans and programmes. In Article 35 you are changing there is no longer any mention of civil defence preparedness holders or legal persons of particular importance for defence, but the bonds referred to in Article 18 of the Law are already required to report to the place and in the time established by a general or individual invitation to refer to, who is the other than the competent establishment unit of the Ministry of Defence. Along the way, it is defined in Article 18 of the Law that citizens of the Republic of Croatia exercise their duties and rights in defence through both vision and consumption. Read that article, and when I tell you that these amendments and additions to the law are made in the militaristic spirit of this article, Article 18 is proof that we are not exaggerating. It shows how much you're neglecting the civilian component. What also hurts me a little bit is, in any case, the powers of the military police that you further spread. You told me on the board that the point of these changes is to have the military police come directly to the Department of Defense, and that's okay because it's unreasonable for them to investigate someone and take care of someone who's in charge, but in the previous case it would be the main headquarters, but when I looked at a little law, you spread the powers of the military police. Unfortunately, with all due respect, the SDP cannot support such changes and additions to the Defence Act, and since this is the first reading during the vote, we will be abstentioned. I hope that in the meantime you will make certain adjustments and that you will allow us to support these changes and additions. I say no matter if a lot of things in these changes and additions are positive, so these things should be arranged. I call on you ministers as the person in charge of this portfolio that the laws concerning the defence of the Republic of Croatia are not imposed by the argument of the majority, but because it is a national interest which is supersede, we bring these laws by consensus and by most arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68124	Thank you, Agent Vidovic. We have seven replicas on his display. He is the first representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, he fascinates his colleague Vidovic that you, based on one or two articles, have come to a general assessment of how it is a militarization of society, the introduction of a military obligation even to abolish the freedom of speech you have said. I simply don't see how you could come to this conclusion, only in a way that you don't consider that it is a systematic approach to building a national security system according to the national strategy, the Homeland War Act which obliges a number of these segments in that system that they can coordinate and co-operate with each other. That's not the logic of what you're saying, I couldn't read that law in such a way that this provision on the Armed Forces or on the reserve composition of the Sumerian or deny civil protection. But this law cannot define the obligations of civil protection. The coordination of these systems and subsystems belongs somewhere else, not in this. But you took logic one to eliminate all others from one discipline, one law, one activity. Where does that say? It's a mental set, one thought that just now is dysfunctional and there's no place in the modern world where we have to horizontally connect. And worse still, there is no standoff in the experiences of other democratic countries that have adopted it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68126	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68127	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman. So it's not just based on one or two articles. So I'm listening to the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister talking, watching what moves he's making on the ground, and I see where he's going. And here when it comes to one or two articles, exactly those articles, well, by some miracle they were... towards the civilian component, partly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I listed it clearly in my presentation. As far as the experiences of Western countries are concerned, they are exactly what I said, so the army comes when the entire system breaks, but then it comes immediately with its chain of command, in the set. It happens very rarely. Otherwise, it's solved, right? Civil service, and the army is here for help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68128	Thank you. The next replica is the replica of Angel Strick, but he, as far as I can see, left the assembly, so let's move on, intercessor Josip Djakric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My friend, you were talking about, that more and more systems are millitarian and that I don't know where you're actually getting that from and where that visibility is about... Croatia and try a small door to introduce a military deadline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not reading it out of anything. It's clearly written in Art. The 21st who and why he's in charge and who's in charge and who's not. And until this House makes a commitment to military service, of course, that obligation cannot be read from either of these articles and in the section of that article. It is written by men, military officials, subject to a recruiting obligation and a duty to serve a military term, or civil service, when the military service is in effect. What do you read about the obligation to serve the military when it is not available? This Dom didn't bring it. And it is not mentioned in any word, that in force, which is now going on, those who want and those who have to submit only to what is necessary, and this is recorded by military officials who have to pass the military records. I mean, I don't know how to get to such a structure at all, that someone wants to militarize Croatia, and that they want to introduce a mandatory military deadline, when no article does. These are insinuations, which really do not need Croatia, and the increasing number of interested in serving in the Croatian military, stem from the very increase and standards, interest, and that technique, all that is the Croatian Army... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68130	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68131	Thank you, Vice President. You say you don't read it. I read very clearly, therefore, if they were to be introduced as important things, the obligation to serve a military term in 2, 3 places, then it's clear that someone is thinking about it, otherwise they wouldn't... I guess. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the wording so far was, something different for unclassified reserves, and I read it, so I don't need to repeat it. Now, from one unclassified reserve can be called upon, under the obligation of service, if it is in force for military service. So that's part of it, and as far as I'm concerned, when you ask me about the militarization of Croatia, so look only back 2 years of what's been going on in Croatia. From the fact that the candidate, for the president at the time, ran along the border, challenged an army that needs to exit and solve refugees, now I see that she is silent, though she still has problems with refugees, to marches on HRT or I don't know where already, etc. What is it, but the militarization of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68132	Thank you. The next replica, is the replica of Representative Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68133	Your Honor. My colleague Vidovic, listening to you, I have understood that you have very little experience in the Homeland War, because as a former Croatian defender, we should have had more experience, more memories, of what was happening to us and why we were then in such an invisible situation, that we could not defend ourselves, for a very long time, until we had strengthened and stood up, against, we know which terrorists, both from the country and from the outside. You say militarization of society, and that's where you name a certain group and between them and our president. You belong to those, as far as I can see, who would... our society, completely, as reserves and possible Croatian armies, in its efforts to strengthen, to modernize and be able to resist any enemy of our country at all times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You forget, that we are surrounded, as in the former Yugoslavia, as they spoke to worries, countries, from which the attacks directly took place on our Croatia. And that they were far more trained and prepared than we were back in '90, '91. Mr. Just a few of those who pulled the knowledge, who served the former JNA and were able to resist at that time, adequate, towards Serbia's aggression. That lasted until the Croatian army stood and strengthened. It's very sad to hear you talk like that. Why wouldn't a Croatian man and a Croatian volunteer be ready to defend his home at any time? Why? Under cover of militarization? It's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68134	Thank you. Replication response, MP Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68135	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Culey, so you said in the introduction that you respected me, and I respect you, too, but you imputed me at the same time, that I said something I didn't say at all. No one mentioned the Homeland War here, if I'm not mistaken. I haven't said a word to him. I think of the Homeland War better than many, many people in Croatia and even outside of it, as far as it goes. But I'm glad on the other hand, that you recognized me as a member and advocate of civil society. Yeah, that's what I am. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68136	Thank you. The next replica is a replica of Ines Strenja-Linić's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68137	So I'll tell you, Mr. Vidovic, that it's an ugly way, and in what context you mention our president, I think you're the last one to say that when we all know if you've forgotten, for that organized meeting with the defenders you brought Milanovic to and what's leaked from that meeting. So what I wanted to comment on and what I didn't get to say in connection with the reserves is that we have to have people who will actually understand the point and why Croatia needs to have the reserve and we don't need the reserves we had in the former Yugoslavia but on, we need to keep more than the American National Guard in which all the participants and reserves and attracts certain concrete benefits for life, so we also know that we will have doctors who are going to have in military, top surgeons needlessly pay there to be part of the Croatian army but also as they do in American, you will have a top surgeon who will be operating every day but will also be a member of the reserve, for that we will have some advantages, but every day have experience that will be able to have at the moment when he gets up concrete and used where he is eventually engaged. As far as a specific surgeon is concerned, we will be able to use it eventually if we have an international hospital organized as members of the Croatian Army in one of our activities outside the country, but this is as part of our forces that are possibly in Afghanistan and something like that. So this surgeon will really be able to use it, but when we talk about an active reserve, I think it simply needs what someone accesss the reserve, he also benefits from it, and that it must be otherwise valorised and encouraged so that everyone present and involved in that reserve can benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68138	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68139	Thank you, dear Vice President. My dear colleague, I understand perfectly that my left-handed colleagues can give it away, but why on earth would you? Why you? What's the problem with your meeting with the defense attorneys? You wouldn't talk to the defense attorneys, would you? You don't want to talk to lawyers or anything like that? ... No, no, let go, you don't want to talk to the defense attorneys. [[/Strenja-Linić, you can't hear.]] So I don't know what kind of way you mean it because the conversation is always, it's number one. And number two, I didn't say anything bad about the president, so I didn't mention the president, but I did mention the president's candidate, which was her moment, and I mentioned her tours of the border, calling the army at the border, so it's all in the media, it's not me who said it, it's her. If I should be ashamed, God forbid, then she should be ashamed of it too. And thirdly, I'd like to ask you to come in today, I mean second or third time for replication. So replicate to whoever you call, do not give counsel to the Minister of Defense. Call for a hearing and tell me what you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68140	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68141	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Vidovic, I lived at a time when it was normal to serve a military term and when it tried to do the same to make some new situations, so the boys went to serve instead of the first year of college, and then they served everything else, so it's not that story from today, it's been a long time. And since you've set up a problem of whether it opens up the possibility or not, we're returning it again, and given all these replicas, you know, there's still the impression that there's something hiding. And it remains the impression that he's trying to return to a small door some things that we've already different through politics and thinking through. I absolutely advocate civil society, I advocate some values that we have already achieved and it is not good that in any law and in any change and supplement we take a step back. I'm afraid this is also taking a step back and it's a good thing that you've been given replicas on the other side of this assembly because it says that maybe it won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68142	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, I'm pretty much thinking what you're thinking, so if you're causing such a storm of some kind of claim, then probably something's behind it. Otherwise, people wouldn't be so rebelled. And I think that, not only are you a representative of civil society, Croatia has chosen the path of civil society. We don't want any military junta or anything else, we decided a long time ago, after all we are a country that is NATO but also which is in the EU. So, a courteous Western democracy, which would have been said. And I want us to continue on that path, to develop exactly that position and build on it our status around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68144	Thank you. And the last replica is a replica from counterpart Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68145	Dear fellow, usually when you have a bad experience and you are burned, then you smoke cold, therefore you do not need every debate especially in this situation when first reading or your criticism is ultimately to understand badly. I would remind myself that the government programme stood by, and that is that security on our streets will defend the Croatian army, so let us not forget, this here we had the written delight to see it all together and these are reasons why it is in some way suggested to strengthen a component called the civilian component, its strengthening, and not to further take on certain responsibilities that these civil components still reached a certain level and standard. Professional, well-trained, high-quality, exactly what you're doing right now, so the military has its own reserve, to reduce these risks, then we have a solution that already exists in Croatia and you specifically mentioned it. It saves, for example, the police are limited to 1/3 of authorized police officers, so the exact number is known to be how many people in the reserve, therefore it is known by development and by everything else as it can be. I also want to warn you, and I think it's very important that you take on criminal research, which is a very, very controversial point, and it's a good thing that you warned your colleague Vidovic about the crime of research, the DORH, the investigators and everything else, and I think you should consult with the DORH here, because at this point in time, the provisions of the amendment of article 109 and the military police are in contrast with the Law on Criminal Procedure, as well as the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and I think there should be additional consultations there. I believe that the best intention was that certain things could be controlled within that, but if it were a voluntary prosecution and courts then it would be logical...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68146	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68147	Thank you. That counterpart Ostojić, indeed in one government programme not so long ago, wrote that security on Croatian streets will protect and defend the Croatian military, that is, the truth, there is another contribution to the militarisation of society. As far as the rest is concerned, I have also called on the Minister to speak more publicly and that we really want from the opposition that these laws, which concern practically extra-party interests, concerning security, concerning the defence of the Republic of Croatia, are the functioning of this system to bring them by consensus. But we can't bring them in by consensus if we, out of opposition, keep calling it out, and the rulers can't hear us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68148	Thank you. Now we move on to individual debates. The first debate is from counterpart Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So a year ago we adopted this National Security Strategy and the Homeland Security Act and these laws assume that we will have to amend a series of these laws concerning institutions and which are in charge of the area of national security or Homeland Security. One of these first laws that we need to harmonise to get a consistent and coherent system is this law on or amending and supplementing the Defence Act. And on the other hand, my view and my belief that I think we should consider this only one of these moves of changing the law to get to an effective system. Because, as I've already said, this generalization that one segment of that system will take over the intelligence of everyone else, I just don't think it's on the right track because there's no sighting of the whole. I welcome what has been said so far about these amendments to the law, on the one hand, about this reserve system to the use of the armed forces in these crisis situations. I think these are all segments of preparation for this entire system that is otherwise in the authority of the Vice-President of the Government as well as the Minister of Defence. And I would personally stay on one segment of what Minister Krsticevic is as the third point of this law, improving education and scientific activities for defence purposes. I believe that this Article 18, which redefines or introduces Article 84a, is in the existing law, that it should be said more ambitiously if this article is now referred to as "For the implementation of education and scientific activities for defence purposes institutions can be established in accordance with the Law governing scientific activities" etc. I think two things that should turn this here, could mean some future time to break into the foundation, and the institutions that are quite undefined and not in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity to be defined as high schools that can again be universities, universities or already academia to somehow achieve what is intensities and what is already proposed by this law, which is that the Croatian Military School also becomes a formal scientific institution. Why and formally? Because the existing Croatian Military University programmes already have scientific accreditations, they were accepted but the institution itself has no scientific status. Therefore, in this direction this change should go, is it not logical that this entire education system, which is based on science, but that this scientific segment should be outside of that system on the one hand. Secondly, I think that we should go in order for people who go through these educational processes through this military education system to also get calls that will not need to be specifically nostified, I am now speaking because this needs to be the center and parent for the field of security and defence sciences that already has its place in the classification of science. The third thing, clearly, is that it is normal for those involved in this area to be the holders of these subjects, to have scientific titles and to be able to do so only in this area, in order to improve, not only the educational process, but also the overall structure, the basis for the development of the armed forces and this system. On the third hand, it would also open up space for us, if this system were to be opened for the civil sector, in which not only members of the armed forces, but also other segments, any media, research, scientific or professional activities, would be included in the national security system. In this regard, he would suggest that the second reading be adopted to amend this article, in order to have a more precise view and whether it encourages the development and development of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68150	Thank you. For the discussion of counterpart Miroslav Tudjman, we have no replicas, so we continue with the individual debate of colleagues Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68151	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Department of Defense. We're talking about the Defense Act. Croatia wanted me to admit it or not, at this point it is indeed an unprotected and abandoned country. Every year, we literally burn because our space is abandoned and unprotected. And in that direction, I welcome your efforts. He's a soldier to us, and even a fireman on the verge of poverty, I welcome your efforts. We've also been bribed by a police officer. I will dare and mention, and in this context, health institutions are sneezing, their colors are falling off the walls. All of these are some problems that point to a truly unprotected and abandoned land. Why am I stressing this? For a simple reason, because policy so far has literally killed reduced the ability of the state to defend itself and that needs to be changed. On the other hand, I do represent a political position, which does not allow, removes, and destroys barriers, which prevent the development of public good. In this case, the public good I'm talking about is the defense, the defense of the country. That's it. We should allow our people to defend themselves, so he would add at some point the food itself, if we use enough of all the mind we have in the state. No narrow-minded policy can be justified and no national development can develop within any party framework. We should be aware of that when we consider this law. And when we consider the Defense Act, I must respect the total width of the political being. The intervention in these 28 articles that you've done, it tends to go in the direction that the state can defend itself and I really welcome it and you can see a whole series of these positive shifts. I'm saying hello, so I'm going to set out the definition of the reserve. I especially welcome the insistence that the military school be combined in a way into the university community. Even the possible change you announced, the change of the name of the Armed Forces to the Croatian Army, there I see a strong foundation. Today's debate shows a conflict of thinking in several things, which is, clearly, the separation of civil services that are in the function of protection and military service. There will need to be concrete answers on this between the first and second readings. A clear answer should be given whether this is a tendency to introduce a military deadline, which is mentioned here on a small door or not. She needs a clear answer, she didn't want that dilemma to turn around. I am particularly emphasising the role of the Military Police, which, if I have read correctly, is being given increased powers in the direction of particularly criminal research. There is also a lack of clarity to remove, because I am truly convinced at the moment when it comes to defence, that we need a consensual foundation of the Republic of Croatia which is about to begin with the Law of Defence. So this is our consensual foundation that doesn't exist at this point, so we need to bring circumstances, that we can bring, vote by consensus, I really see in the area of defense no. 1 and also in the field of internal affairs. I believe that at a certain point, health care can also be considered that way. Since this is about first reading, Mr. Minister, I invite you and all the participants and the opposition to simply one proactive action, concrete proposals, and understanding, we bring this law to a level, i.e. to the possibility of consensual adoption. As far as I can tell at this point, it's really not gonna be hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68152	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Mr Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68153	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I once again, on behalf of the motionary on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, thank the entire government. And to all of you who have participated in this debate, we have followed the debate very closely, therefore, all that is good, useful, every suggestion, every suggestion, here we are, responsible to consider. So we went to 2 readings, which is very important, just so that in that second reading, everything that we think is important, we put it on. But important from the position of the profession. I won't let you, believe me, as Deputy Prime Minister to politicize the system and that's not my intention. You've seen, so there's been a lot of debate. You saw here, specifically, at the hearing of a colleague, Franco Vidovic of the SDP Club or you. So in 2013, you changed the entire Defense Act, so the whole Defense Act. After that, you once again changed the Law of Defence in 2015. And we said hello. People who were and that's good. You've seen it now, we're dealing with trust me with a system of security, defenses, victorious Croatian armies in a systematic manner. And you saw that we are the provost that all developed democratic states are out there, that we first joined the creation of a National Security Strategy because the National Security Strategy is a fundamental starting document on defence and security in every developed democratic state. And now that we brought this strategy together after 15 years in the Croatian Parliament, did you see what the National Security Strategy recognized? She recognized that the security paradigm had changed, so you all know that the states used to prepare only for war or defense against aggression. Today, we all feel that Croatia is certainly not militaryly threatened. But what do we have today? We have new security risks and threats faced by every modern society, including Croatian society. You also saw last year if anyone could have imagined that it was a fire or a flood and those activities and what we needed. Of course it's not a basic military assignment, but what were we supposed to do? Keeping an army in the military or banning a Croatian soldier from leaving the military. Is that what we were supposed to do? And you tell Mr. Frankovic three tasks has the Croatian Army not one. That's what the Constitution has decreed. These are the tasks the Croatian Army has, three. One is a defense and we do it in continuity. The other is collective security. Mr. Frankovic is the third person you need to know is the help of civilian institutions. It's the Constitution, the law. This Croatian Dom brought here. [[Intruding Hajdas Dončić: Mr Vidović not Franković.]] And just in the third one that matters, the Croatian Army has been responding all along, responding in time. Clearly, civil institutions, civil protection. So clearly it needs to work and our intention isn't. So please don't, let's not always be us in that position to be small. So give me some things so I don't politicize, that some things don't talk about that militarization. I mean, it's your right, you're saying it. But our intention is not certain, but our intention is to build a system, to build one responsible system, to change these amendments to the law right now are in the context of time, in the context of all of these now situations, that we can be the Law of Defence, these amendments to the law that we can be even better, more operational, more efficient. And let's not be afraid of the Croatian Army. Or the variant of the reserve. You tell me if you're for the reservation or not for the reservation. What shouldn't the Croatian Army have a reserve force of 20,000 troops? Shouldn't we have that? Feel free to say if you don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. We want to fence it for a hundred years or we will responsibly make this story in the process and make it what it should be, which is what Agent Linić said modernly, that it corresponds to the Croatian spirit, Croatian tradition and that it is in the function of all those tasks that the reserve needs to be done. And that's our intention. And that's why in 2017 we did what we did. And right now, these amendments and additions to the Defence Act, we still want to specify more precisely the system of rights and obligations of the reserve, rights and obligations of the reserve. We want to determine the call procedure. We want our reserve in the Croatian Army to feel comfortable. Clearly, if the reserve has a working relationship that nothing happens to him, that he is not insecure if one day, five days, ten hired, it is as precise as that in a developed democratic society as it should be. And that's what we intend to do with all these amendments and additions to the law, that's to keep it in place. So let's not do this, let's be responsible. The defence is a supersede issue and it seeks consensus, seeking consensus between the two sides. We're always ready for consensus. I am also prepared with you personally and from the position of the club to discuss, but professionally, justified on the basis of facts, based on arguments and based on that everything that is good for the system, for the Croatian Army, for the security system, for the defense system to be. Because you saw we need to move faster, be better, be better prepared than those who pose a threat to us. We have to adapt, we have to change through the system, through the law, through regulations to do so. So let's not scare someone with militarization in 2018, scare someone with the Croatian Army. This army, together we've created it, it's democratic we have procedures and surely we won't do something that's out of the law, the law, or we won't be ready in that reaction. You've seen in this context that we've changed the operating schedule, just to be in Sinj, this year in Ploča, in Vukovar, in Varazdin, so that we can be even closer, so that we can be timely, so that we can react to all those situations. Is it my opinion that this society is not such a wealthy society that we would have an army in a military that would have some capacity? If it is necessary to help the people in trouble so that the army is not engaged, on the other hand clearly that civil institutions, civil protection should be the same and do absolutely its job. And exactly what we have recognized, we have identified through the Homeland Security System this one synergy, this one sharing of the ability of resources between all components of the Homeland Security System. The clear police are doing their job, the civilian is doing his job, the army is doing his job, the Red Cross, and what you've seen is clearly seeing civil society. You saw that we just put the thesis of the safety partnership. So we want to have civil society as partners in the security system, we want to have our citizens as partners in the security system, we also want to use civil and defence associations precisely in this concept of homeland security so that they can be organised through the system so that they can deal with all these threats, the risks we face on this trail. I've also seen certain questions about the military deadline. Also to make that thesis the same here as the vice president and minister respond, you know that the military deadline he was not lifted to make the same exact term here in the Croatian Parliament he was frozen. So frozen, he wasn't lifted. There's no legal here, so we don't deal with it at all. We're focused on the reserve, we're focused on making the reserve effective, being operational to establish it, we're focused on voluntary military training. You've seen, some have, and yet I won't speak now, and the fees for voluntary training I haven't reduced Mr. Franco, you've reduced those fees from two thousand kunas to 1160 kuna. You called people for four days to come. You know how much you gave them for four days in 2015. 20 kunas in four days. So who will come to you in such a way? Through this very present system, through those ten days, people were ten days away and you know how much they got in ten days? 1500 kuna, that when a man comes as much as the state can secure, as much as he can through one such system we want to do so. So I'm saying in all of this, I'm asking you one more time, all that's good, we have usefully until the second reading, we're going to consider, we're going to analyze from the position of the profession. This is not even what I want as a minister, I want the profession to be the main headquarters, people who know the problem and the reserves and the whole concept that they give us what we need to be done. Here is another thank you to all who participated in the debate and what we have already said, all the suggestions, suggestions you have made in the debate we will discuss in detail in the preparation of the second reading and everything that is in the context of the Croatian Army being more operational, more effective and that this law in these amendments and additions to be we are willing to do and show that part of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68154	Thank you. At the presentation of Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Krstic, we have seven replicas. But before the replicas we would like to welcome the students of the High School "Effectus" from Zagreb who are up there, so let's welcome them nicely. ... Thank you. [[Applause.]] We're starting with replicas. The first replica is from colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go, Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68155	Minister Krsticevic, you've talked a lot, but you haven't answered the key question that our people are interested in, and that's where the money is. 140 million kuna you gave to the MiG remont that came back from Ukraine incorrect. Who's going to answer for that? No ladies and gentlemen. Why is this 140 million kuna not invested in raising the standards of Croatian soldiers? Why haven't their salaries been increased, why haven't their food improved? So someone could put the money in their pocket. That's the essence of the whole story. And unfortunately, the answer to that question is, of course, you won't give it to me because you don't care. And how missed the government's strategy is best told you that they went into that remont even though they had already decided to buy new planes. Then what's with the old plane remont? It's all one missed strategy that says that this government has no vision except for a waste of budget funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68156	Replication response, Mr. Krsticevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68157	Dear colleague Pernar, you've asked a very good question. Just about modernising the MiGs, I was the only one who wasn't the secretary of defense at the time. Ask people that question, that's a good question, modernization and how modernization was made. But I wasn't that minister and I wasn't that person. And today, as for the amendment and addition of the Law on Defence, it is this Law on Defence that we want to make the Croatian Army stronger and more capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68158	Thank you. The next replica is from counterpart Frank Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68159	Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, so I must first tell you in the beginning that you have vented my word, I have spoken to you with argument. So, I went by article by article of the law and listed what it says. I don't know what an emotional performance is for you, it doesn't make any impression on me, absolutely nothing. It would have been better if you'd spoken in quiet voice as we speak and all of us in the Parliament. Yes, we changed the law, we changed the law in 2013, we changed 2015, 2016, we changed it with the intention of modernising the law, but to allow the Armed Forces to strengthen and develop, that's what we got. On the other hand, it is in that law that the possibility of a reservation is open, in this very law that you are objecting to me now as I have called, I have never called anyone because I was a parliamentary representative, therefore we do not invite anyone. Those who call are prescribed by law. So we called, yes, and formed a reserve. And it's good for you to keep it up, it's good for you to speed it up. As for the acts that I would hold an army in the military, and if the Croatian people are threatened by threats, you have defined it so, I must tell you that you are speaking a harsh lie. So I'll be free to you, I'll read to you, I have so much time. The army may and may need help with threats but we cannot observe and treat it as if it were fire protection. I believe that you, after all, and as an ex-military, will agree with me that the military really is not a primary function and that its primary function is known.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68160	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68161	Well, dear colleague Franco, I'm glad to hear your part comment as you comment on my part right now. In terms of expression, everyone has a personality, you have a personality, I have a personality, therefore it is very important in all of our discussions that we are correct, and in that spirit is my debate. You have your share of responsibility, I have my share of responsibility, and in that part let it remain that way. As for again, I repeat again the Croatian armies, the Croatian army has third tasks. The third task is very important, to help civil institutions. And our army thinks that this is something that the Croatian military should do and the Croatian soldiers are very happy if we have such needs, gave God that we have no need, that we do not have such circumstances that we have to help our civilian institutions, but if we have such needs, we are here to help civil institutions and we do so. We've done it all the time and we'll do it the same way. And that's why we need all these abilities, which is why we need a soldier, which is why we need dignity and pride for the Croatian soldier, and that is why, and now after this debate, we will also discuss the new law that is also very important in the function of man and in the function of all the necessary compensations that have been taken away from people, to return to them because the Croatian soldier deserves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68162	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from a colleague of Ostojic's rank, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68163	Your Honor, I also think it's very important that you understand that there are no extraordinary questions. So we are politicians, and we need to talk, there are certain things that we can certainly find consensus about, but don't take any criticism or remark as politicizing because it's not true. At no point did any of us talk about the military staying home in a situation or military in a situation where there's a variant that's really necessary, neither of us thinks. Also, on one example I'm going to tell you, so in this situation we could replace the HGSS in the search, probably the military would do it better than the HGSS, but strengthening the civilian component is extremely important. What's true is that we haven't brought the National Security Strategy by consensus after all, it's a shame, because we didn't accept one important thing, and that's that we had one bright victory for which this country is and is remembered in history as a winning country, and I'm sorry that it didn't happen and that there's one little thing that you wrote in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that you thought was more important than bringing together a strategy here in the House that would be unique. What I want to tell you in the end, absolutely, is that, strengthening the Croatian army, equipment, professionalisation, a modern army that will at no time replace the civil institutions that need to be raised, strengthened, which should be very important. That distinction when we do, it will be the greatest success, I believe your intentions are the same, but then the messages must be clear, clear what the military is doing, what civil institutions are doing, and at the moment I said at the beginning of my presentation, the moment the military has to come out and replace civil institutions, we are really in a serious situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68164	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68165	A colleague of Ostojić, related to this part of your comment, yes, what has been said about the National Security Strategy, you know that Croatia did not have this national security strategy for 15 years. I think it was time for one such document to be brought. And we brought it in, I think that the preparation of that document was very inclusive, very many experts, independent experts, experts worked on that preparation. And you know the parts in that preparation, there were both people and by the SDP who took part in it. And clearly in the end, you asked us to put antifascism and partisans in the strategy. There is no such thing in any national security strategy in Europe. You didn't even put that in the National Security Strategy in 2002. And it doesn't make sense, so it's set by the Constitution, and that's why we thought that the National Security Strategy should be built on security, challenges and that we don't want to politicise it. And that's exactly why we didn't let it happen. You behind this villa are restrained, it's your right. We now have this responsibility and try to build and improve the system of defence and security.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68166	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from colleague Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68167	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, listening carefully to your explanation why we should adopt this Defence Act, you have repeatedly mentioned that a quality system should be built. I fully agree with you, we have heard here various thoughts on how to get to the system but I think one of the basic things that we would have a system for people who do such a system to be trained in an adequate way. It means they're also equipped and they're also trained. I'm going to ask you a specific question, do you think that the people who, at the beginning of 2008, are frozen military deadlines, are the people of that generation from 200 to today, are they at all trained and in what way they are trained to come into the position of the reserve soldier not only for military tasks, but also for military tasks if evil is not needed, but for anything else? And what is even planned with future generations, whether they will be trained in any way to gain at least that basic military training because here we are paid by militarizing society that they will be reintroduced military deadlines, etc., but simply the logic of things if we look at what is happening in the environment, what is happening all over the world, we simply cannot afford to have young generations that are not at all trained for any action, and then perhaps through some spare part we would first train to help us. I personally think that everyone should go through basic military training in any way to determine it in any much shorter time than it used to be, but that has most countries in the world, I think we should too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68168	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. The next replica is from my colleague Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68169	Thank you very much. The defence of the Republic of 1990s was a supersede issue and the defence of the Republic of Croatia is always a supersede issue regardless of the party, ideology, worldview, nationality. This is an over-party issue that is important for the development of the economy, for security measures. That's what we need to grow and build on it together, we don't have to get along. But it's a fact and it's a shame that we haven't had a national security strategy in 15 years. 15 years. So much for politicians sitting left, right and center. 15 years. I'm an opposition at this point, and it doesn't matter that he's my mate and my friend and you're the defenders, there's us both left and right, the defense is a super-party issue. We were all in a trench, next to each other, and we didn't ask who was in which party. I believe when I should, God forbid, take the gun in my hands again, so they don't look at each other under a party's gun, but defend their country together. The strategy and concept of the strategy we have adopted in Parliament stems from the law. So who cares if the Croatian soldier is hired, the Croatian soldier is our man. Our son, our cousin, our neighbor who is trained for fire protection, who has technical and material resources, who has passed standard operating procedures as a firefighter has passed. And that's what we should be trying to do. Together, to prevent and preserve the safety of individuals, economies, from the local committee, I repeat, we should all be engaged and together defend our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68170	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from fellow Angel Strike, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68171	Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it was this assembly of the Parliament after 15 years that adopted the National Security Strategy, then the Homeland Security System Act, all to make our citizens as safe as possible and the system more operational and efficient. The law allows all services or institutions, institutions, protection and rescue once every 3 months to sit down, discuss and predict possible threats. It used to be about resuscitating the damage, no matter what crisis it was about. I find it impossible to rely on civil protection because over 90% of the municipalities of the cities have no C against civil protection, neither these people are qualified, nor trained, nor are they equipped. Therefore, the strongest and key system in defense, protection and rescue is Croatia's military. And I therefore find it inappropriate to suggest that civil protection from which I repeat has no C command of military troops. Among other things, many countries in Europe use their military troops in different ways. For example. in Great Britain, France, Germany, Belgium soldiers patrol the streets and I haven't heard anywhere, I saw their citizens rebel over it. So here's another example, now I'd really like to know what our individual fellow MPs would say, for example. in such a practice to be introduced into Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68172	Thank you. And the last replica is a replica from counterpart Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, today we have been imposed on one polarisation, the Croatian Army is a senior civil society or militarisation and use of the Croatian military in a confusing way because it is not those who object against the use of the military in crisis situations, threats, but it means denial of civil society and... It's got a double wrong message. On the one hand, it is forgotten how the Croatian army was created. The Croatian army was created by civilians, therefore it was one of the volunteers and further we were all civilians of necessity because we were to participate in the defence of the country. Therefore, the character and debt of both the Croatian Army and the Homeland War and all associations that bear this tradition is inseparable from the idea of civil society. Another thing is that some refuse to accept that Homeland War associations are also part of civil society and that they form this civil society. What you said, I think it's crucial and that this whole discussion makes it artificial, unrealistic, is that it's changed the paradigm and that the threats have changed. No one considers the use of the Croatian Air Force to extinguish fires in Croatia and outside Croatia to be a militarisation of the entire system but one obligation that no one else has to do or use on the streets of Paris to London as a militarization of that society but a part of a system that must be organised and arranged to regulate this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68174	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68175	Your Honor, Professor Tudjman. Just what you said, it is very important to us and what you said, the Croatian army was created from the people. We created it together at the beginning of the aggression, it was created from civilians and what through this current way and activities of the Croatian Army we want to do exactly that task to help civil institutions, we want our people all over Croatia to feel that the Croatian Army is there and that we will always be available. We also want to prepare ourselves, have these abilities and you have seen that all the abilities that the Croatian military has given to civil institutions. You've seen how many... medical translations there are, how many of our helicopters are involved. What you said against the firepower, clearly this land component. You have also seen some of the skills we are developing now in the Croatian Army and we see very much that they have a dual... means that they can be used by the Croatian Army, but that they can be used by civil institutions. Well, you saw recently that whole water treatment system that we got, so it's just in function if it's going to work tomorrow. Or did you see what happened in Zadar, that entire pump system we handed over to the hospital we put Croatian soldiers in a civilian hospital to get that hospital ready as soon as possible for those tasks he has. Well, you saw recently that we built an expedition camp so it could be used to support both civil institutions and military matters. I think it's the reality of what you yourself have said to professors of altered security paradigms and security responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68176	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, First Reading, P.Z.E. Number 268, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68177	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, First Reading, P.Z. No. 268. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 90 for, 31 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68178	We are now moving to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. number 266. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here's an additional explanation for Damir Krsticevic's Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68179	... Honorable Mss. MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] Here we go after the amendment and addition of the Defence Act with amendments and additions to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. The Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in full in 2013 and regulates the reception, service, rights and obligations of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. That law was amended in 2015 and the 16th total of Article 252 of the Law, these proposed amendments and additions have 88 articles. The main objective of the proposed law is to raise standards, living conditions and the work of our soldiers, officers and officers, officials and replacements of the victorious Croatian Army. The Armed Forces allow better, professional development as well as the return of dignity of a military call for greater interest in joining the Armed Forces. By promoting a military call and the value of the Homeland War, it will contribute to increasing and protecting the Republic of Croatia and its citizens. What I want to say is the same, and I will keep mentioning, man is the gravity center of the victorious Croatian Army. He's the most valuable part of the defense system. And that is why it is our task to take care of man and that he knows that the state of Croatia is the whole system, that it has given him what it can give. In the fifth year of the application of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, certain solutions have proved necessary to amend, or supplement and in a different way to better support further development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Key amendments to the law include one fairer system of wages and, in particular, the return of material fees. We know, we should repeat that in previous years you spoke to some of the parliamentary representatives and representatives of the Croatian soldier, everything that could have been taken away from the Guard supplement, field supplement, duty, guard, not to talk about nutrition and all these other material rights. And exactly what we want to return to the amendments and additions to pay for work instead of the exclusive payment of the duty that has proved unfair and ineffective. It is proposed to introduce special fees for guards, duty and work on the ground for active military personnel. Article 155 of the applicable law stipulates that for all forms of work on a regular basis, persons in service do not belong to the right to increase wages. It is therefore proposed to amend the current provisions under which persons in service do not belong to the right to increase the salary for guards, on-calls, on-the-spot work so that the active military person is entitled to those charges. It is about the most common tasks carried out outside of regular working hours. So there's no army in the world who, if he's in the field for it, doesn't receive a field fee. I think the time has come in 2018 for this Croatian soldier to have the right to this fee for field work. I don't know why he needed it or if he needed it. Working in field conditions includes training, training, polygon education, editing and preparation of military and civilian locations and terrains, removal of the consequences of elementary accidents, decontamination, field association and other activities carried out outside military locations of conventional accommodation and work for a longer period of 10 hours. So, if a man is on the field for 10 days, 80 kuna a day for a man to get 800 kuna. Under the strategic service, internal service is meant to provide physical security for objects, material resources, people. Even if a man is on guard for 7 days, 80 kunas a man gets 560 kunas. On-the-spot duty shall mean duty in the capacity of the internal service carried out in the Armed Forces. So if a man is on duty one day, then a man gets 80 kuna. This is the first key amendment to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. Another very important for Croatian soldiers for the security of a military call. The measures taken to restore dignity to a military call resulted in an increased interest in accessing the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. After the suspension of the military deadline and the introduction of voluntary military training in 2008 for the first time and in 2017, the third generation of voluntary handbooks was directed. So for the first time in 2017, we had three instructions. Well, it's not an accident. What do you think the first time we had three instructions is for what? Well, obviously, we've taken some action to make Croatian people decide that they want to go on a voluntary service of military service. There is also an increased interest in the reception of professional soldiers, officers and officers. In 2017 we received the service of 782 sailors. We've received another 65 officers and tenants at the Department of Defense. We've received 108 officers. A total of 1000 people entered the system in 2017. It is proposed to introduce a soldier for the first contract at a certain time for two years and a second contract indefinitely for the duration of the service for up to 45 years of soldier life. So, so far, our soldiers have had three contracts, one was on four, the other was on five, the third was on six. Now you can imagine how these people could plan a family, and without family support there is no strong motivated Croatian soldier when with what we want now, we want two contracts. One's in two years. I think that's enough time for us to assess whether it's for the military or not, but on the other hand, and that someone is assessing whether a military call is something he wants to do. And after that two years, man has a contract indefinitely up to 45 years and so that he can plan a family that this Croatian soldier has the safety of employment and this possibility of life planning, with all the rights that work carries on for a certain period of time. This law proposes introducing later receptions for top athletes, i.e., reception beyond the prescribed age. Such a solution was proposed to include doctors of medicine, because of their... in a military call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now in the system we have 31 top athletes, who are in contract reserve status for a certain time. The aim of the proposed amendment and addition of these provisions is to allow these persons to be admitted to the service later, indefinitely, without restrictions relating to age, so that those persons with their experiences, knowledge, may be instructors in certain areas of the military system. That's the kind of model other countries have. So everything we're improving right now, we're looking at how in other NATO countries and everything that's good, normally that we're adapting to Croatian conditions, we're putting these changes in place and supplementing the law. For the candidates for the officers, with the call of the doctor of medicine, she was offered the officer's rank as lieutenant. This particularly recognises the long-term training of doctors in medicine, and the solution to the armed forces of other countries is being traced. In accordance with the applicable law, soldiers, only during the last year of the third contract, can they be transferred to the military service, with personal consent to another state body, excluding the possibility and transfer from the armed forces to the Ministry of Defence. Since there are interests and the need for soldiers to continue working in the status of officials, or, under the proposed law, it is proposed to arrange this area, so that this reference can be made at any time during the second contract. So, already after... Now, the M.O.P. has certain needs, with people in security of the state border, or we need people to be in captains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why not allow a Croatian soldier to have a second career and put it into office, if already invested in his knowledge, in his training. So, the proposed law, taking care of our man, the soldier of his second career, allows for a transfer to every state body, at any time during another contract, and not so far. Thirdly, improving the system of professional development is proposed to rotate the command and leadership duties and duties of the first officers, every 4 years. Since the rotation of all duties, until now the applicable law is not enforceable, as has been so far, we want to deal with it now, because it is not easy, believe me to be in command, dozens of water, more satins, military brigades, to be in the leadership position. And that's why we have to take care of those rotations. The aim is to facilitate multi-annual planning, system flow, staff management, and at the same time provide a clear, career view to active military personnel. In particular, I point out that it's too much to suggest that the highest time of reception is 30 years unique. So far, there has been an existing border for soldiers 27, for voluntary handbooks 29, for officers 29, and for officers 30, with the goal of increasing the number of candidates. The officer, the officer, the assigned duties at the main headquarters, the branch command, the command of the same level, may at the same time be added to the command or other duty in the second-organised unit of the armed forces, the same or lower level within the same generation, service, profession, or functional area. An active military person, in the interest of the armed forces, can be deployed to... the place of direct higher rank than the personal rank of 2 years. Extraordinary officers and officers, professions and health services may be deployed to a position up to 2 acts, higher than a personal act, for a maximum period of 2 years. Extraordinary soldier, military specialist, active military person, appointed office of military envoy, or other military diplomatic duty, and an active military person sent to international bodies may be deployed in a position of formation up to two acts more than a personal act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next, what is very important are improving housing support. It's leaving the concept of a traveling army, which is very important. I can repeat it again, we're leaving the concept of a traveling army. And the new deadline, the new operational schedule, you saw the 20127 army in Sinj, the return army to Sinj. You saw an army in Vukovar, this gentleman's army in Ploča, or the army in Varazdin, will allow timely action of the conditions of assistance to the population, civil institutions, the creation of preconditions for the growth of power and the creation of perception of the local population in the presence of the armed forces as a factor in security and security and on the system of homeland security. I stress, without the support of the family, there is no strong soldier. The current state of the traveling army and 110 bus lines, which our people daily transport to work in military and military polygons are not acceptable, we must change that. We can't do it overnight. We've already cut 10 lines this year, precisely because of this operational schedule. You can imagine that... Our soldiers rise in the morning at 4:15 a.m. the bus leaves at 5:00 p.m. to arrive at 8:4 p.m. again, at 7:00 p.m., almost 8:00 p.m. home again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that a man's life worth living? Is that life worthy of Croatian soldiers? Now, we want to, through one process, through one system and change it. I asked the profession to propose a way, so that this could be arranged differently, and thus to improve the standard, quality of life of our soldiers, officers and officers. Changes are proposed according to which for monetary support, for the residence of an active military person, a key timetable is also out of place of residence. This corrects the current situation in which the compensation was possible after the transfer from one place of service to another, especially the youngest who could not make any compensation in the first schedule. Already our little officer comes, ends up being promoted to the officer, we deploy him to Gospić, Vukovar. Under this current law, there is no fee for housing, so how are we going to attract young people tomorrow? That is why, with this law, we change that we attract young people who want to be officers and feel comfortable in the victorious Croatian army. Systemically complete staff who are gravitating towards new locations will fast the condition that most of the members of a particular unit live and work in the city and the nearby area where its unit is located. Since the applicable law stipulates that all soldiers' employees are stationed in military locations without compensation during the service of the armed forces, we suggest that we prescribe the possibility for active soldiers at indefinite times and contracted soldiers to choose accommodation in a military location or outside of a military location in order to achieve social, family, social and other needs as well as preserve the motivation for a military call. The existing provision on the basis of which the housing fee is bound to the place of service which is at least 50 km away from the former place of service comes out of the basic purpose of prescribing benefits that should be in the service of support, quality of life or compensation of increased material costs of life, renting an apartment because of the schedule, as appropriate, of the service outside the place of residence. The next activity that is very important is raising preparedness. In 2017, the Ministry of Defence declared the years of soldiers, officers and officers with a fundamental goal of raising standards and living conditions and working conditions for members of the Croatian Army. This year 2018 is the year of activities and preparedness of Croatian soldiers. The active military person is obliged to maintain the required level of physical readiness, so for the first time in order to promote a healthy, better quality life and work, this area is normally regulated. It is proposed that the criteria of the body preparedness test be prescribed by the Defence Minister. The Croatian Military School "Dr. Franjo Tudjman’s "Days of Sports in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia". As I said last year, we dedicated ourselves to a soldier, to an officer, to an officer, and this year we dedicate ourselves to the readiness and active way of life. We've invested financial resources in new sports equipment. For the first time all soldiers, so 17,000 soldiers will be given sports equipment. Actively working on the equipment of sports facilities in the barracks, we have also invested in the training device just so that people can do so, so that the Croatian soldier can successfully carry out his tasks is necessary to have a healthy life and be active. Then the termination of the service and retirement of active military personnel began last year the process of transitioning the rejuvenation of the armed forces to new command personnel trained abroad and with experience from the Homeland War. So on December 31, 2017, some of the commanders of the armed forces were retired, I think you noticed that very transparently, so people knew seven, eight months earlier that they were leaving the system, that they could prepare for another career. The people who came had time to prepare and came from the people who were from the Homeland War, but who were educated in the best European and US schools. The detachment process based on the need for service over the last few years shall take place in accordance with the annual allocation plan and the criteria adopted at the annual level. This law proposes to regulate the time of termination of the service with the right to retirement, which sets the prescribed year of life as a criterion, depending on the personal act and on the condition that the years of retirement are fulfilled. The proposed provisions of this law are in accordance with a special law governing the rights of the pension insurance of persons employed by military personnel. The basic idea of the proposed provisions is to allow for a precise determination of the time of completion of the military carion to be prepared in due time for transition in the military system, to ensure the possibility, time and space for planning human potential management. Most armed forces, especially in NATO member states, have a defined moment when the military's career ends. Then the following are honorary acts and command brigades. The anniversary of the important events of the Homeland War is marked with special piety and pride by honoring all those who sacrificed their lives and health for Croatian freedom and statehood. We show dignity and respect for the Croatian freedoms. You saw from the other day 25 years ago the marking of military redistribution Operation Maslenica was dignified. A few months ago, we had a marking of the release of the southern battlefield and everything in the synergy of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Croatian Defence and the local community, the municipalities, the city, the county and you saw that we all felt very comfortable in these markings and you saw that we are also calling for all these markings. I ask you always to call the constituency, now part 9th constituency without exception to all 14 parliamentary deputies we have invited to Dalmatia. When it was Dubrovnik we called the 10th constituency, when we had Vukovar we called the 4th and 5th constituency. We take good care of all of you Assembly representatives and MPs. Therefore, the proposed law stipulates that the representative of the President of the Republic of Croatia may assign an honorary act of armed forces to Croatian citizens and citizens of foreign states for the special merits acquired in the Homeland War. There are other people who are sure to correct some injustice. Homeland war is the cornerstone of the modern Croatian state, Croatian defenders why not do so. The honorary act gives the right to the markings and appropriate military honors without the right to command, to conduct and to have no financial effects. The proposed law also corrects the injustices related to the status of staff brigades and the legal gap that was made in the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2002. In fact, the legislator did not then foresee what with those persons who had the rank of staff brigade and who left the defence system by 1 January 2004. This is the case of then active military personnel of the personal rank of the headquarters brigade and not the reserve headquarters brigades and those who had an honorary act. These thirty persons have an act of command brigade which is not formally and legally existant and the problem needs to be addressed in the way proposed. So people have rank and they can't be called because that act is gone. All those found in the system on 1 January 2004 were implemented by the law in the act of brigade, I am not entering now whether or not it should have been done, and after 1 January, as brigades, they had the possibility of promoting the rank of Brig-Gen. So by proposed law, those thirty persons who have left the system by 1 January of the day of entry into force of this law would have the right to refer to the act of the Brigadier General and to bear the mark of that act. These are the people of the Homeland War, they're the commanders of the Homeland War, they have the names and names of these people. This solution does not create any financial obligations, which is evident from the fact that retired persons with the rank of a commanding brigade have exercised the right as well as brigade generals either under the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons or the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War. Finally, we maintain that the proposed law builds up existing solutions. So everything that's good stays. But compared to time, compared to priority, to our soldier, everything that is good that he can be even better, faster, more ready, all that is well in the function of strengthening, development, upgrade, winner of the Croatian soldier precisely these amendments and additions to the service law do so. So constantly improving, it is the key to the victory Croatian army, it is a feature of the Croatian army, and we find the source of our strength and our abilities in these constant improvements. The financial resources for the implementation of this law are secured by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the division of the Ministry of Defence. Dear Madam MPs and gentlemen, the bill of law before you today was on the home defense committee and received unanimous support from committee members. So all the members and members of the Defence Committee unanimously supported these amendments and additions to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces on the parent board. With this law we go in two readings, I ask for support in bringing it to the well-being and members and members of the victorious Croatian army, I think it is our people, our man, that they have earned it all together and that we are now able to make that step. All proposals and suggestions given in the debate will be considered exhaustively when preparing the second reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68180	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Mikulic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68181	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Krstičević, the fact is that the standards and living conditions of Croatian soldiers were not satisfactory, which is why I am glad that here today there are two laws that are precisely aimed at improving the living and working conditions of our soldiers and their material rights and enable them to develop better professionally. However, it is not entirely clear to me, so I would ask for an explanation on travel costs, Article 132. It is defined that active soldiers on a personal request can be granted accommodation outside military locations without the right cost of transport and therefore let us take the example that a soldier submits a request not to live in a military location because he owns his own house where he lives with his family in a nearby place, in which case he would have to pay travel expenses to his job, which is again a particular financial problem for him and his family. So I'm wondering if you've predicted such situations and how do you think you're going to solve these cases in law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68182	The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68183	Well, here's what you've done with your esteemed colleague Domagoj, we're considering it safely and we can't do it overnight now and specifically, for this travel cost situation we're also taking care of, we're going systematically, step by step, over the fee, clearly we're going to connect these travel expenses and fees that it's all legal again, and that what financial resources allow us to focus on it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68184	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister, General Krsticevic, Secretary of State Ivić, here's a greeting to colleagues from the Ministry of Defence. First congratulations on all the activities and everything you have said through these two laws that are on the agenda today and all the activities that I am following through the Defence Committee and I am glad to have the privilege of participating here and to see what you are doing for Croatian soldiers and armed forces. I am pleased that through these two laws focus on man, focus on the Croatian soldier, it should definitely be commended and welcomed by the fact that you have emphasized how many people have entered the system of the Ministry of Defence, specifically the Armed Forces shows that all the ratios work and that all of this is done with a certain fruit. It is also this law, especially this one, that will act on the very popularity of the military call, and we know that the main and major problem of Croatian soldiers is the abolition of all the material benefits and resources they had and that the previous governments have abolished. Congratulations on dealing with this problem, I think it will result in a positive echo of our Croatian soldiers. But I'd like you to point out exactly these two measures, which is this contract signing means in the first two years to a certain and then up to 45 years to life indefinitely. And this is exactly the measure of trying, and I believe you will also end the concept of a traveling army. These two measures should be highlighted because these two measures are precisely demographic measures, not only of your ministry but of the entire government. We know how many people are in the Armed Forces system, we know how much this will work on them. We know how safe they are now, they won't be nervous, how much credit they can raise, how sure they'll be in their housing resolutions, how safe they'll be in their jobs, how easy they'll be to start their own family. So it's important for young soldiers who are now entering the Armed Forces to stress these two measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68186	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68187	Thank you, Vice President. Minister Krstičević, I am glad that I would say you shook up the entire life of soldiers, and so did the laws they had, which were passed today and which had some shortcomings. And I'm glad to hear from you in your statement that you're thinking about the life of a soldier, the Croatian soldier that we've seen and seen so far was not adequate for one nice respect and one good standard to say soldier. Because we can't have a good soldier if we don't have a good standard if he doesn't have all the conditions he needs, and you as professionals probably know what it takes. As far as I can tell from your presentation, most of the things you've led to are what's nice to hear and yes, you've said the traveling army. Every man wants to come home rested and arrive in time and activities both private and human and family, and this is all on the trail of what you've been saying. So we need to work it out, and I see that you agree well, and that is especially good for me that our soldier will be appreciated, that he will feel in the Croatian army as a respected man with one dignity that the people will finally respect and that our children and the future will be the one where they will be kidnapped and try to join the Croatian army. But certainly with this kind of effort that you are doing right now, and that's just a sign of the future that it's going to be an honorable job, a job of value, and that our youth stays there, there's certainly a question and other things and our children don't go out there and that our mentality is rising and that once we agree that story that's still said I'd disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68188	The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68189	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I am extremely pleased that you are showing such concern for Croatian soldiers and I think all Croatian soldiers can be happy and grateful to have such a minister. What I regret is that other ministers are not like you. Croatian soldiers will now be fully protected and thus should be, and will not be protected by Croatian doctors, teachers, chemists, physicists. 44 doctors leave Croatia every month. These 1,000 doctors and 800 nurses and technicians have asked to be given permission to go abroad. We're protecting the soldiers. You say there will be no more traveling armies and that's good, but we will have traveling intellectuals, but they will not travel through Croatia. They will travel to Ireland or Germany. If all other professions had such a minister as the Croatian Army!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68190	Thank you. We're not in the dark a little bit, but okay. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68191	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. I welcome here also in the name of the Croatian Peasants' Party club and on my behalf I welcome the adoption of such legal solutions and this law which goes in the direction of creating a high-quality educated and well-equipped Croatian army that deserves such care and will certainly know how to respond to any possible threats that would arise. And what we particularly welcome and what you have mentioned in your speech is the return of the army, the Croatian Army to Vukovar and thus giving re-recognition and piety to the city of Vukovar and to all defenders who fought in Slavonia and Vukovar. But in this way you are also helping the recovery of this region, because it will certainly raise some consumption in the city of Vukovar and the surrounding area and help the economy of Slavonia and Baranja. And surely it would be good for other ministries to think in this way, to dislocate some of their resources in Slavonia, to help develop Slavonia. I am particularly pleased that you are trying to equip Croatian soldiers and, in particular, with quality domestic military equipment, what you are doing and a diplomacy for this industry and present quality Croatian products around the world. But I would also like your support and help to preserve our facilities in Slavonski Brod, Đura Djakovic, because a large number of defenders work there. It's part of a military program. What is the fate of this military program and what can you personally do to preserve this company because it is a significant company and for the town of Slavonski Brod which had three brigades and deserved special attention both to you and to all ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68192	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68193	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Well, I'd like you to explain to me, as an agent, one thing that has appeared in the media. I also fully understand this part of the injustice that you are trying to correct, and it is related to the rank of a commanding brigade that is now turning into a Brigadier General to correct that legal void. However, a week ago on Croatian radio, General Marinko Kresic, I will quote him, says this is not how injustice is corrected, but some new one is created. Someone's gonna call themselves a general, and it's not really. It is not clear on which basis this will be determined. As defined, there is no such thing as anywhere in the world. The law will allow 39 retired headquarters brigades to be addressed to the generals, and 52 will not have that. I would ask if you could and if you would now explain these allegations of General Kresic if that is indeed true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68194	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68195	First of all, I am not an esteemed colleague, Davor Vlaovic, related to Djuru Djakovic. I think it is a strategic firm that is very important and we are doing everything we can in the context of both the people and the defenders. And you know we have certain contracts. Now we'll sign off on some contracts in ten days. So all they can do is try to do that synergy. As for Mr. Sagar, as far as the brigades are concerned, take a look. We're here in the Parliament, so there's a general Kresic right to say it. Neither did General Kresic measure that he knows everything best. You understand? And he's beating up in that situation as a general. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I think I said exactly why we're doing it because there's this gap left. And you've seen what's very important. That part of injustice clearly has many more injustices to be corrected against people, according to the system. We suggested it with this because there was a void left. There are now individuals from the Homeland War, there is Renato Romic, I do not know that I do not list Bozo Kozul Commander Tigerov, Ante Kotromanović. We want more of them who are people who are undefined. And that's why exactly what's very important is there's no financial, there's nothing. It means the value of the Homeland War that people can call you human and nothing more. So that's the part, and that's what it says, that's what we prescribed. Because there are certain other injustices, but here's one process, so we'll do everything we can. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68196	Thank you very much. I'd open it now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'd open up the debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, secretary. Here's the thing about this law again. It needs to go back to what's most important. This law in the proposal of a positive tendency to return payments to a soldier not to be paid, in fact to be paid for his work, to be able to live normally, and that is exclusively to pay back the guards' fees, duty and field work. It was a huge injustice against Croatian soldiers professionally. I can say that from experience. I've personally been a professional soldier for 17 years, and I know what it means to be a professional soldier. And this return is acceptable. The armed forces will be enabled by this law and better professional development. The dignity of a military call returns, and I agree with that because a soldier is first of all to be not just a soldier. It's not a job. It is an invitation to serve, and I believe that in the Republic of Croatia you told ministers how many people entered the system, how many because of the abandoned Minister Krstičević people came out of the system. A lot of guys, soldiers, officers, officers came out of the system because of what wasn't paid for on duty, guards, terrain everything there was. And that number must be significant. We lost perhaps the best guys and certainly this law that tends to stop it and attract the most qualified people, boys and girls of course who want to be members of the Croatian Army. This is good to promote this greatest age in the ministry, so it rises in three years, it is good because there are certainly many people who have not entered the system, and they are 28 years old or some 27 years old. So I think it's positive. By this law, I propose the introduction of the first contract, what you said also well, two years of the first contract. Because if, well, 45 years old because it's really insecure for a professional soldier, a guard to be on the contract for three years, three times three. If he got in when he was 18 at 27, the man stays on the road. So that's good and it's acceptable and this law basically protects these guys who decide to stay Croatian soldiers. In fact, after two years, they can detect whether they are to continue or not to continue to be professional soldiers. The very important thing here is that you mentioned the enormous costs that were on the transport. You said 110 buses a day transporting our Croatian soldiers. Not only is it a huge cost, but we also have the safety of those people who are on the road. And therefore, these millions of kunas, it seems to me 40 million kunas is much better to be this way and strategically and securely deployed. And as a member of the Defence Committee at the time, I also encouraged and talked about being both Sinj and Ploče and Varazdin and Vukovar, very important that we have Croatian soldiers in these places not only to help civil protection, the civilian population that the Croatian Army has the capacity as an engineering unit in Sinj can help in the development of the region. So certain works that local self-government can communicate with the military together, and so far has always been with the Croatian Army on the issue of good co-operation and while they were out of it. It is also very important for this economic aspect, that the Croatian soldier be equipped with Croatian weapons, well equipped, that he has secure food and it is very important, Minister, that it be food from our fields, for example. from the blue field, from the top field, from the Imoth field, not to be imported food. I think it's good for these parts to be potential, to use OPG food, people who are in this work, to live, and thus to develop their economies and also the Croatian army feeds on domestic healthy food. I think that probability exists, if we develop an economy that is positive, has positive effects, we must also have positive effects on agriculture in these areas where the military is stationed. I would not like the Croatian army to use food from imports because it would essentially encourage the reverse as it has been until now, but rather encourage the development of agriculture. This law will be passed, there are more positive developments, of course during the debate, MPs will make their proposals, in this reading we will support because we believe that the Croatian soldier must be at the centre. It's a soldier, it's a man, and without a man, there's no army. I'd like to thank you again, and I'd like to invite you to have some home-cooked food at dinner tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68198	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68199	As I can tell you, fellow Bulj, as well as the minister, you're showing concern and you're wondering how many people have had to get out of the system so far because they felt insecure in that system. It certainly is not good for anyone in any system to feel insecure. But this morning my colleague Glasovac asked for a break on behalf of the club to speak for 5 minutes about how people from the University of Split were transferred to the failing Croatian studies in Zagreb, so 10 young doctors of science had to leave Croatian studies, went abroad, a double doctor of science in Germany to work at the cotton factory. This is therefore the policy of the current Croatian government's moment. I didn't expect you to talk about it. I'm asking you to start thinking about it. Because it's nice and good and noble to protect the calling of soldiers and that's what we have to do. But these are our people too, we've invested in their education. Instead of returning that money to their homeland, it drives them out of their own country by such a policy. To be slaves, to do lower-skilled jobs as double doctors of science in other people's countries. It's a problem we have to talk about, it's a burning problem in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68200	Thank you. We've gone off the subject again, but something will say, dear representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68201	I was saying... I was a professional soldier from that position I spoke and I am sorry when there was a soldier, a doctor, and there is more of it and of course that this problem may be more understood but the fact that the system is not working and you know it very well because you have been in Parliament for 15 years and that you are one of the co-workers and you and everyone here who sits and in this short time and I and there is not here to talk now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can talk about it the way I walk my city, the streets or when I walk villages that are isolated, who simply don't have literally free textbooks, free transportation, no water supply, flat wheels, characters, mountain cot, so that's your fault. It's not exactly when you were in the Parliament that you went around these parts, I personally live here and I'll stay in those parts. We have 2/3 of Croatia empty. While we sent fighter planes on the proper flight to Ukraine for a remont of 140 million kuna, they were returned to the cariolia or dots, in parts. And that's the problem with the system, you know, it's huge problems. If this 140 million had been invested in doctors, in Croatian studies, believe me that it would have been a different situation, believe me, and therefore we must systematically evaluate both soldiers and doctors and in the judiciary, in agriculture. I would like Croatia's soldier and Croatian studies, universities, to be Croatian food on Croatian tables then more children would be in Slavonia, there would be a cry in Dalmatian Zagora, but the fact is that Minister Jakovina was giving the OPGs founded by Todorovic money, and not to the OPGs who are from Slavonia. So there are many, many mistakes that make people in garbage cans looking for bottles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68202	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ name to be spoken by respected representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Assistants and Advisors, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is changed in 88 articles, which certainly contributes to the improvement of the situation in the Croatian Army and ensures all the important assumptions that the Croatian soldier would be well paid and his promotions, his diet, his equipment and all that is needed, which has been devastated in the past. In fact, from feeding and eating unequal in the Croatian army to pay, night work fees, special units fees and guards' duties, all of them were abolished and the Croatian soldier had no perspective. The Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which was passed in 2013 and has been amended twice so far. It is now changing as I have said in the 88th article and the law regulates service issues in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia since the reception, deployments to the construction sites, acts, promotions to acts, obligations, rights and responsibilities, the separation and termination of the service and other issues of members of the armed forces. And the purpose of these changes and additions is primarily to raise standards and conditions of life and work of soldiers, officers and officers, officers and tenants. To increase the standards of living, working and training of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Croatian soldiers, officers and officers of the promotion of military calls and values of the Homeland War, increasing security and protection of the population and population, and in the context of changes in the security environment and responding to security challenges, the development of a new operational schedule of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia through the return of troops to Sinj, Varazdin, Ploče and the arrival of troops in Vukovar. Some may view it as a militarisation of Croatia, which is only one normal even schedule and giving up on what it was, which is abandoning the concept of the traveling army, and a new deployment of troops will allow timely action in conditions of assistance for the population and civilian institutions, creating a prerequisite for the growth of forces and creating a perception of the local population of the presence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as a security and security factor, is part of the system and Homeland Security. 109 lines that have so far driven the Croatian army across Croatia from place to place, 50 million kuna costs for them, getting up soldiers, officers and officers at 4 a.m. and returning to 6 or 7 is absolutely exhausting for every man, for every soldier and officer, and does not give him the perspective of any married life, family life or anything else. We believe that such proposed amendments and amendments to the law significantly improve the status of Croatian soldiers. The most significant changes relate to improving the material rights of active military personnel and officials and subsistence, enabling better professional development, the reception of active military personnel and their promotion. Some of the most interesting changes are the introduction of the first contract at a certain time for two years and other contracts indefinitely for the duration of the service for up to 45 years of the life of a sailor soldier, replacing the existing three contracts for a certain time that was at 4, 5 and 6 years. Such a solution achieves the security of employment and the possibility of life and financial planning with all the rights that work carries on indefinitely. It is also proposed that during the duration of the last contract, and not only during the last year as a soldier can now be transferred to another state body in the status of officials or subsistence, so that the knowledge and abilities of members of the winning Croatian army can be valued and used outside the defence system. Furthermore, these amendments and additions give the military person the right to compensation for special forms of work in service or for field work, guard service and duty. It is about the most common tasks carried out outside of regular working hours. With the aim of raising preparedness, the active military person is obliged to maintain a demanding level of physical readiness and for the first time to promote healthy and quality life and work, this is normally arranged, and the Defence Minister's regulation proposes to prescribe criteria and procedures for the verification of physical ability. These amendments and additions also regulate the time of termination of the military service under the law under the law of age pension under a special regulation that would prescribe completed years of life depending on a personal act, subject to the fulfilment of the conditions of years of retirement. It is a fundamental idea to allow accurate determination of the time of completion of a professional military career in order to prepare active military personnel for transition in a timely manner, and to provide the military system with the possibility and time and space for planning human potential management. Otherwise, most armed forces, and especially in NATO member states, have a defined moment when the career of an active military person ends. At the same time, this does not mean the end of their employment but only the end of one stage in a lifetime career of such a person. We believe that these proposed amendments to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces are important to improve the status of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, which will further stimulate and awaken the awareness of what a Croatian soldier is. All of these so far intensities brought forward by the Ministry of Defence headed by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Defence Minister as well as by all his associates are clearly showing which place the Croatian Army is today and what we want in the future. The development of the defence industry in the Republic of Croatia significantly improves the status of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, while the equipment of Croatian soldiers and export products makes additional profits. 28 I think that the factory that manufactures military equipment and weapons clearly shows that there are significant conditions in Croatia that are innovative and recognised in the world, which are resourceful and certainly contributes that Croatia is recognised as a well-organised military industry that has primarily armed and equipped its Croatian soldiers and officers with its technique, with its own weapons, shoes and clothing, with a digital uniform and with a Croatian gun and with all those products that are now appreciated in the world and which will continue to be the development technology and progress of our industry. What we're talking about is that an act of headquarters brigade that actually transformed the ranks into a brigade general and of 93 headquarters brigades, 43 have actually become headquarters brigades... Those who remain, there are 32 left, and 32 deserve at least according to what the law says, to be referred to as a brigade general, and it's no harm to anyone, it's just a correction of injustice, I would say that here in Article 86, as I did on the board, should actually be translated into this 32 others in order to level with those 50 that are translated into the act of the Brig-Gen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would satisfy the form, regardless of whether they're retired, they don't increase anything, nothing costs money, but the satisfaction of those who have experienced it comes back. I think it's a reality, that it's a need and that we're thus correcting the injustice of this 32-square brigade that has not experienced the act of a Brigadier General. I commend all the activities you've been doing, especially that will be done by this passed law, and that in the second reading, maybe this can be fixed a little bit, to find the best legal option, and I think that will satisfy all needs. The HDZ Club imitates the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, which serves both the Croatian and Croatian countries, as well as the potential for the Croatian soldier to be in the first place as a pillar of Croatian defence, security and protection of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68204	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which they will speak the respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68205	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Service in the Armed Forces regulates or intervenes in a whole series of issues under the existing law, I will talk about 11 points or moments that make us at the GLAS and HSU club significant. I will begin with a single remark that de facto refers to rhetoric which is used here and begins with the introduction of this law where these amendments and additions are said to restore dignity to the members of the OSR of the Republic of Croatia. We find that completely inappropriate and I must say offensive with members of the Republic of Croatia. What he's trying to do with this law is give them better conditions. And that's good. better conditions to attract a more quality fit and new people to serve in the OS, also a legitimate point or move. However, I think it is absolutely inappropriate to say that these people had no dignity or that they now lack dignity and that this dignity should be restored to them. They have gained their work and have dignity, wherever they appear to be doing well and are praised in international missions, in crisis situations, so their lack was not their dignity, their lack was their money. So they had low wages. And by analogy, that would mean that all people who have low wages in other professions or who don't have enough pay or who don't have a job at all have no dignity. That's not true, and I don't think that's the way to talk. They have dignity only have small wages. And it would be good if everyone could raise their wages and it is obvious that the purpose of this law is, among other things, by increasing the supplements, improving the conditions and increasing the money that people can earn in these professions, to attract quality personnel to that service, which is of course a legitimate move, but I mean a completely inappropriate statement. The second point that I think is positive and regulated by this law is described in this law is the rejuvenation and transition in the OS Republic and the rejuvenation process that is even directly defined and described and thus, in the opinion of us in the club GLAS and HSU, in fact, despite all this perhaps slightly exaggerated rhetoric, de facto contributes to professionalising the Croatian army which is also a good move. It is also said that it is shortened by this proposal to amend and supplement, reducing the duration of the first contract for soldiers or sailors from 4 to 2 years. The arguments for this are therefore experienced in the basis of an experience that should be trusted to be possible and sufficient for this basic training to be done. However, the third or fourth point here is to introduce the possibility that the contract may be terminated both during or after the completion of the specialist military training, if the soldier on duty does not meet the criteria in the first months. In translation it means very likely also legitimately, but liberalization is liberalized. So it's easier for people in this profession to be fired at the beginning of their careers, and that should be said clearly, there are probably excuses, but this law actually introduces the liberalisation of the labour market into the armed forces, so to speak, or facilitates layoff. The fifth point is the increase, or the elderly will be able to retire, or the elderly will be able to sign a third contract, since the increase in life span is probably also a more legitimate move, it rises from 35 years to a respectable 41 and 42 years, respectively. It warns here that it is important to align these age limits or an increase in age which is cited as limiting to the Defence Act to be those 30 years mentioned in the Defence Act as a possible age when it is possible to enter the military service of a specialist or a contractual reserve to comply with this law. The next point, which actually concerns me, requires a certain explanation because it allows cadets that are not able to meet academic obligations so that they can go to contract service. I don't quite understand what this is about, so whether people who are educated and in their schooling are considered academic dissatisfaction are on the other hand qualified for the service of soldiers, so please explain that point. The next item is the introduction of a time diversification required to train military specialists. I think it's also rational because it's very different specialities and very different then and the material of people in this profession who need to master what they need to learn. The accommodation here is also possible for people to live in private apartments, so outside the military and in the military there is probably one good change as well as the fact that distance or right to an addition based on distance from the workplace is factually defined as the distance of residence and place of service, and not as so far as the distance between the present and the new place of service has been, so this is one correction that seems logical. And finally, what has been said here is that the payment of what has not been paid so far or the introduction of the right to work in the field conditions for the guard service and for the watch. Surely, since it means more money surely makes the profession more attractive or potentially more interesting for more people. My question on behalf of GLAS and HSU, how does this relate to the claim in this law that no additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is necessary for the implementation of this law? If more money is introduced for people who are in active military service in different titles and at different levels, it is obvious that additional money is needed for this in the Croatian budget, and if for some reason this money has been in the Ministry of Defence, where has it been? So what are you going to stop funding to finance this newspaper you're introducing? It's actually completely unclear from this law, so it would be good to get an explanation for something that, of course, everyone would welcome that people make more money, where that money comes from if it says they're not going to ask for extra money from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68206	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Pusic, you have opposed the fact that this draft of the law is about restoring dignity to members of the Armed Forces. I'll remind you if you don't know, and I'm in my presentation in front of the club clearly and told you when you're making it impossible for someone in the Croatian army to eat the same diet. And what is it, a humiliation? Just a diet that's different to soldiers, officers and officers, that some of them have to pay. You probably weren't familiar with it, you weren't into it. Some have to pay for salad and soup, others have to pay for dessert. This is a living example of the humiliation of Croatian officers, officers and soldiers. Only an unequal diet is what was not worthy of them and should not have happened let alone talk about wages and incomes. A guard supplement has been abolished, an addendum to a professional service that also required the supplement and all other duties that were abolished. The Regulation on the Regulation and 38 high officers and generals have been amended and excluded from the Croatian Army unjustly suing Croatia today and will be satisfactoried again from the state budget. These are things that shouldn't have happened. I know you probably didn't follow a lot in the system, so it's probably not even familiar. That is why this return of dignity is stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68208	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68209	So my remark that you referred to in the replica was to categorize it as a return of dignity. So it certainly is, these people have not lost their dignity because of it, and they cannot be said to have no dignity. What you can say is they have low wages. But you can what I know of anyone and who works today at school, hospital, college, and treat anyone for that reason as a person whose dignity has been violated. There's no violation of dignity. It's just too little money. And it would be good of course that everyone has quality conditions and that they can do quality work. And if this is possible, well, it's possible and it's good to pay people more for it. My point is that it's about improving conditions, not restoring dignity. And I think that's the way to look at it, and management is always choice. So if you have some final amount of money to give somewhere you have to take somewhere until you increase the total amount. And I hope the total sum continues to increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68210	Thank you very much. We will move to the next club of representatives, which is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Franco Vidovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68211	Dear Vice President, thank you, Deputy Minister... As opposed to the previous law we discussed for this law, we at the SDP club can only commend you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we like the concept, he's a man, planning a career, and stuff like that. What I heard here today can be said that the attitude towards the Croatian soldier is ultimately going in the right direction towards the Croatian army. This is a good concept, and that concept should be supported. I will only mention a few things – a fairer system of wages and material costs, i.e. material rights. Of course it needs to be put back. However, you should have that in mind as well. You often call on how it was abolished, etc. The Croatian Army then shared the fate of the entire Croatian society. This has been happening in times practically since 2009 and beyond, all the time. And good, now we have economic growth, it's good to have those things back. So nobody did it because they didn't like Croatian soldiers or Croatian military or the Armed Forces, but it was done with purpose and intention to restore practical stability to the entire financial system of the state. Further, security in the system. I think it's a very important thing, that other NATO members insist on that thing, I know especially about the American system. And it's good for a man to enter the army once to know exactly what his path is, to have a exactly planned career, to know when, in what year, there's a promotion and something like that. But he also knows how he can continue his education and his specialization. But also what I said on the board, here's what I'm saying right now and here, publicly, I'd like to ask you all at the head of the Minister's office to give these people due care, and after you leave the system. So, colleagues have spoken here many times. This stops their active career at some point. But a further career of life can continue. And I think that these people can be and worthy members of it, let's call it conditional civil society after the service and after the military career is over. Also the concept of a traveling army. It happened at the same time, and that's the moment I think when we joined NATO, when it came together, when we had to bring the Armed Forces to some number. We had to reduce the military. So, it's basically the period when we moved from almost war formations right after the end of the war into peacetime formation and he was not most fortunately designed and therefore it's good to go towards being as close to the home of officers, soldiers and officers. And the last thing about the translation of the acts of the headquarters brigade, so I think it's mostly about people, and you correct me if I'm wrong, which is what they got during the Homeland War. By transposing an act into the rank of a Brigadier General, but practically without any material rights, so as to be able to put on a general uniform, to refer to it as a "general" I think it's the minimum that these people deserve. So it's not their fault that they went into retirement at one point that act was thrown out of the system, so it's abolished in the system. They are not guilty of this, and I think it is a good thing that we are sort of correcting this injustice in some way, especially if it is done and in agreement with the General Assembly and other institutions that don't really mind, and I don't think they do. So here's the thing, unlike the previous law that has its own good side, but unfortunately those worse sides that I've talked about in my argument and clearly, this amendment and the addition of the law is good for us, and we at the SDP Club will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68212	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Dear Representative Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Franco, you spoke of an article in 86 correcting the injustice that I also welcome as former members of the Armed Forces and staff at the Chief Staff. Unfortunately, you said the General has no objection, and we heard in the morning that the General Assembly has something against, so they can be told that 150 of them probably half have no idea how they became generals, and here they have something against the fact that the General Brigadiers Romic, Kozul, Kotromanović and Mile Dedakovic do not become generals. As you said, it will not bring any material damage to the Republic of Croatia, there are no material obligations and there is no correction of injustice. So, if all of these 32 people could, and most of them, I even know them, they deserve to get that rank. And in addition to that, I can say that in all the world in all the laws, that someone should not take it wrong, therefore, and that when a murderer is tried, he is judged according to those laws that are more favourable to him. Well, I don't see any problem with that here. I would only ask the minister, will we then make sure that the military at the Shares that bears the name of the late headquarters brigade of Ante Shaskor, has to change the board at the entrance to the military and will be "the Brig-Gen Ante Shaskor"? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68214	The reply of the respected representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68215	So, dear fellow Matic, I didn't say they don't mind but think they don't mind. But here you have denied me. As for the very recognition of the act, I also said about the speaker, the position of us at the SDP Club is ultimately my personal position, and I think it's kind of the least honor we can give these people in view of everything that's been going on in the system that they're not guilty of. These are the people who have acquired their acts in the Homeland War and, in this way, the minister and his team correct virtually one injustice. Therefore, nothing more than to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68216	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first came from a respected representative, Miroslav Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we are discussing these amendments to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces which are motivated by what was said in the introduction and what the minister said, restoring dignity to members of the Croatian Army, or the Armed Forces. There were comments on such an argument, however, it should be said that this return of dignity was not only a reason or motivated by material status but we had one great period when it went to discrimination and the Homeland War and the Croatian Army, both media discrimination and political and political, from the highest points of the time of political actors. To welcome is what has been said so far, because all of this, from long-term contracts, is the abolition of the concept of the traveling army, etc. that I do not repeat all these provisions now, because they were done on the principle of what the minister said in his explanation that people must be aware that Croatia has given the most that it can give to members of the active members of the Croatian Army. However, it seems to me that there is still one piece missing here in this law on the trail of what has been said by counterpart Vidovic, which is what is with dignity, with respect for those members of the Armed Forces who are cut off from the service? Unfortunately, here we have except for this correction of this injustice, as it has been said, there is little to be said, and I do not think that the law may taxively determine what it is to tell officers and officers, soldiers who are leaving, who have ceased their service in the Croatian Army. But it could be in charge of the Ministry to create and start a protocol that will define all these obligations if you want the Croatian State through the Ministry that they have to the members of the Croatian Army who have stopped the service. Because today you have from that paradox that someone was until yesterday the Chief of Staff or a commander of a choir area or already military the next day when he was retired cannot enter that space or enter any other civilian or all those who enter that space for the first time until it is determined to know, because it is a custom in developed countries with a longer tradition, to know what is the one person who has this rank that has been in that position for life so I say it belongs to him to be invited to the team and these cases to these events, and not only to have a funeral with such a military escort or military ceremony. These are, the void that exists is something that people feel the most and should give great attention to so that on the one hand they show respect and gratitude. On the other hand, in this way the institutions of the Croatian Army and the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence also hold to themselves, i.e. the institution becomes, in the tradition of importance and meaning. And in the end, the state or the Republic of Croatia simply stabilises itself by respecting its own institutions. Unfortunately, we live in a time when very lightly alone from this Assembly to the media we discredit the institutions of both the Croatian state and the civil institutions when we degrade and the knowledge and attitudes of these institutions, and what is one other topic that I am not getting into right now, and I think that this one addition of this law in a way at least in this form would be in charge that if we can say this military protocol regulates these relations with its members in a way that ceases the service in a way that is likely to be necessary, then, in other laws, it would suggest certain measures to respect and preserve this dignity, because it is simply the experience of a series of countries with which we have good relations of practice, if you want NATO as an institution as well, so that the purpose of not only giving respect but also that people who go away at 55 and 60 years of age can continue to serve their country in the best possible way possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68218	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Frank Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68219	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Tudjman, therefore, did not mention dignity and dignity, but I do not like to use those words excessively. I draw my dignity and dignity from myself. I don't need anyone to do that. I know who I am, like everyone else here, and I don't need any group to do that. But as far as everything else is concerned, we agree completely. So what I was talking about is taking a career in principle from day one, so when someone comes in as a young person to the Armed Forces, not until the time of retirement, but still. Because these people leave in principle early in retirement we know that and that's just. But on the other hand, I think that after that the system should continue to take care of them, because they can also have a civilian career after the military. These are people who are eventually if someone is a military specialist and highly educated then he can certainly do something in civil society. And I think that these people are ultimately of interest, so it's in the Western countries that these people are interested in continuing to work. Well, the minister himself, after his retirement, continued to work, but he continued to work by taking care of himself. And it would be good for such people to take care of the system, not to take care of themselves. And it's not any creation or military registers, or privileged cash registers, but it's simply a concern for people who are part of the system, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68220	Thank you. The Honorable Agent Tudjman will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68221	My colleague Vidovic, I did not say that you said that, but I said that some others did, and I called on you to open the topic. And therefore, I think we continued in the same direction as this debate. And when it comes to dignity, it's a clear thing if a man himself doesn't have it that he can hardly expect from others. But it is also normal for institutions, because of the people who have made their contribution to work in these institutions and for the sake of the institution, to keep their dignity to themselves and to develop it. And therefore, it would be much more normal if we had some Hall of Fame so that the minister would get his place in Zagreb or Croatia than in America, we are talking about it today. I think we should congratulate him on this. It is not a dispute or, however, it just means that with such an act, it is also the Croatian Army itself, and the Croatian state has a greater reputation. And today we talk about how to legally oblige both the Ministry and the Croatian Army to take care of their members and after the period when their military service ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68222	Replica of the respected representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Tudjman, you're in this answer to Frank now, so you've tempered what I was about to say. In the beginning of your presentation, you also mentioned the return of dignity and as we have history that you love, you, I say this right side of the assembly, talk about this return of dignity, I did not respond to the statement of colleague Pusic because Mr Djakić actually explained if he meant it, then I agree with that the army ate cabbage and generals meat, on average they ate charm, if they will all eat the same, then it is the return of dignity because the Croatian army is the best that Croatian society has produced from the beginning of an independent Republic and I think that you also agree that each government has tried to give as much as it can and secure the best possible. I'm saying, I don't want to sharpen the situation, but the first sentences are about, at least they associated me when we were at first, and then the army was given a lot, and then when you came, you ended something because now dignity is coming back. And the definition says dignity is the gift of man to himself. So neither who can take it nor give it to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68224	The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68225	This can be taken or given to someone, it's a matter of personal level. We're talking about institutional level here and don't pretend like we forgot or that we don't want to hear or see the headlines of the 200th and so on. And if you saw the headlines that were spoken, look at the picture of the Croatian general and the criminal so you don't know who he is. And by the way, what you said about 150 generals getting rank without knowing why. Is this going to Homeland War? How many generals from the Homeland War received rank during the Homeland War? Sixty. Or 70, there's a number. Not 150. And not that you don't know why they got it. Therefore, this statement does not go in the direction of dignity and respect both of Croatian generals and of the Croatian army.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68226	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68227	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm going to vote for this bill because I think it's a good one. Why is he good explained it, he'll speak on behalf of his colleague Vidovic club, so I won't repeat him. So this law solves in a quality and systematic way one group, one profession in Croatia, the profession of Croatian soldiers. As I said in the Replica Minister, I would be much happier if all or some other professions in Croatia were protected in this way as a protected profession of Croatian soldiers. I agree, there's been a lot of talk here about this dignity and I agree with my colleague Pusic. In the assessment of the situation, therefore in the preamble you begin with a sentence that special attention is paid to restoring dignity to the members of the OSCE. That sentence implies that they have so far had no dignity or that their dignity has been denied in society in general. This finding is first incorrect and it is not offensive to members of the Croatian army, it is offensive to the Croatian state, it is offensive to your predecessor, Kotromanovic, and perhaps to some of your predecessors. And I think she's unnecessarily unnecessarily, that she's been swindled or misinfected. Maybe not with bad intentions, but I'm asking you to throw it out by the second reading as something that irritates. In this good bill of law she doesn't fit, she scrapes, stabs in the eye and into the brain. To someone taken from dignity means to insult him, humiliate him, it does not happen to any member of the Croatian army, nor does it happen. Members of the Croatian Army have been admitted everywhere, with respect both with dignity and in Croatia and everywhere in the world. And wherever they come, they show them respect. So let's not throw in some ideological stuff, political things that don't belong here. Djakic says that this dignity has been threatened by an irregular diet. But look, then their children in Croatia are deprived of dignity because they don't all have the same diet. And what will we say now that children in Croatia have no dignity because the Croatian state does not protect the dignity of children? I'm sorry, that would be stupid. Something else threatens the dignity of children in Croatia, that humanitarian concerts must be organised to raise money for the treatment of children. Well, we're state. So why can't we finance the treatment of children from the budget, but we have to organize charity concerts to raise money to buy a child a cure? On the other hand, we've got Vatican contracts, so why don't we organize a charity concert of sacral music to raise money for the Church? I'm talking about dignity, the dignity of children, because this is about military dignity. [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Stazic, let's stick to the topic, please.]] Well, then, the budget pays for drugs for children and the charity concerts cost more for the needs of the Church. Now in the preamble, let's go specifically now. In the preamble you say on page 3, this law proposes introducing special fees for guards, duty and field work. The provisions of Article 155 of the applicable law stipulate that for all forms of work on a regular basis, persons in service do not belong to the right to increase wages. Now let's see what article this bill regulates. This is article 66, Minister, and this is for you on page 21. go to page 21 and see article 66. In this letter, Article 155 is literally amended and reads, active military personnel do not belong to the right to increase wages for overtime, work at night in shifts, tours, Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, unworkable days, the state of preparedness, and so on, but also make accessories for military service in accordance with Article 139 of this Law. So it's not said to belong and it's said to be changing that article 155. And what does article 155 say in the applicable law? It's exactly the same as your change. Active military personnel do not belong to the right to increase overtime, work at night, shifts, tours, duty, guard service, alert status, etc. Minister, this remark does not go to you, it goes to your secretary of state who may miss this kind of cripplingness in the House. The assembly is the most representative body in the Republic of Croatia, the legislative body. Make this a minister, if I were a minister, I would have replaced him right now, even today, because this kind of schlamper is absolutely unacceptable. Now, materially about it, watch each ministry has its own characteristics, including military service and a man when he agrees to a service when he sets out for a service he agrees to the terms of that service. What does an overtime award mean to a soldier? And what do we fight? What are we going to do until 4 and then charge overtime after the war? Guards, so the soldier acts as ordered. There's been a disaster, a flood, an earthquake, I don't know how to start a robbery, the army jumps in here, and there's got to be a guard and he gets an order, he's standing there by the department store, and he's keeping watch until your replacement arrives. Well, he can't charge it special. Overtime work doesn't go with military service, it just doesn't work. It's like I don't know the doctor refuses to work on duty so they won't work on Saturdays and Sundays, and the patients are coming. So simply when you've decided to military service, you have to give up overtime because it's... What's a soldier doing in a war? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's at war, defending the country, it's so clear. This and the laws alike must answer the question of what a soldier does in peace. He's preparing for war, exercise, not just that, not just that. I know that in the JNA in Yugoslavia there were armies she had agricultural goods. Every barracks, every barracks had agricultural goods, there was food produced,... What? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the army, for the needs of the military not to burden the state budget. I don't know why we don't think about it. I don't know why we don't think about having their own agricultural holdings. And the last question that we have to ask in principle almost philosophically, what kind of armed forces do we need in terms of being members of NATO, means when in the event of an attack on us we have NATO protection? So we need those components and as many armies as we need from NATO. And I agree that we meet our NATO obligations, send our soldiers who are excellent, best equipped, get all the praises in NATO-organized missions because we are part of the alliance. If you're getting something, you've got to give something. It would be wise if we didn't get over it. Why? Because it's expensive, it costs, and we don't need it because we're protected, we have an umbrella. And let's be that one bar in that umbrella, as it's called, which supports that canvas and be the best quality of that bar, but let's not work over it, let's not work needlessly, let's not waste it needlessly. So with these petty remarks, I repeat, I will support the ministers of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68228	Thank you. We have two replicas, one respected representative of Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Stazic, here I am now getting hold of this and it just bothers me, and since the minister is here, he'll hear this part. So in this preamble it is quite enough and is even mentioned on several occasions as an improvement, an increase, raising standards, living conditions and the work of Croatian soldiers and that is quite enough because indeed the expression of restoring dignity is offensive to the ministers of this predecessor because they obviously abolished that dignity when he is now returning. And I would remind him of this morning's response, so as there is no place in the modern National Security Strategy to include Partisans and World War II, so there is no room for pathetics and clichés of the type to return dignity to this law which is generally good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68230	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68231	I've seen the minister write something down while I've been saying it in this section, and I have a proposal for a minister. Change that sentence in the interest of preserving the dignity of the Croatian soldier. In the interest of dignity, for this is the dignity of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68232	The next replica of the respected representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68233	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Stazić, mentioning dignity and dignity, mentioned that charity concerts are being organized today to collect help, to buy medicines for children. But it's not just a problem, the health minister went one step further, he founded an entire collection fund, though, which unfortunately does not have a positive echo in the public Dear Vice President, this is the law, but I am also a representative of the Croatian Parliament, so don't take my word for it. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Let's go, this is the Service Act in the Armed Forces. Let's not.]] Dignity, dignity, so when we mention these words, then you must know that these topics will be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68234	We still need to talk about the subject. Here you are, dear representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68235	The vice president still has ties because let's say the minister had the thought of establishing a fund to raise money for Croatian soldiers, I would be against and I would say sorry, but the Croatian state must take care of its Croatian army. And the Minister of Health thought of setting up a fund to treat children Croatian. And I'm sorry it has to do with it, it has to do with it. And if such a proposal was found in this law, as the health minister gave me, I would strongly rebel and that is why my colleague Vidovic has the right to mention it. And I completely agree with my colleague, and there are 24,000 kunas collected, 24,000 kunas, not enough for one dose of medicine for one child, shame, it is a shame for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68236	Thank you very much. With this we will conclude the debate and give the word on behalf of the promoter to the respected representative Damir Krstičević, Minister, forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68237	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs, MPs. Here I am pleased now at the end of this debate today and regarding this, amendments and additions to the Service Act give another review of the debate. First of all, I would like to thank all of you who participated in the discussion of the Amendments and the addition of the Service Act in the Armed Forces. All that in that part of the debate is good, we used to write down here me and my team very valuable, we will listen once again, we will review everything else once again and all that is good, useful in the context of the Croatian soldier, we will surely do so for the second reading of the law, i.e., the proposal for amendments and addition in that second reading that we will put. What I would like to repeat once again was the goal, the fundamental objective of amending and supplementing the Law of Service in the Armed Forces is exactly and means to raise the standards and conditions of life and the work of soldiers, officers and officers, officers and deputies, and this is a fundamental goal compared to time, in relation to all of what we have just done is precisely this standard of soldiers and officers and officers to raise it to a higher level. Another very important thing, we told the Armed Forces to make better professional development possible, and I think this law is certain that we are doing so. We also put the term here as returning the dignity of a military call for the dignity of a military call for greater interest in joining the Armed Forces. We now see that the debate was, but I think it's clear that it's an individual matter, but I think we should ask our soldiers, officers and officers, specific people. I mean, they're your most credible in the whole process, they know best what the situation was, what the situation was today. So I think they're in that part of it the best representative of it all. We also want to promote the military call and values of the Homeland War will contribute to increasing the security and protection of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, and I think it is also without a motivated soldier that it is certainly not there. As far as what we have now decided to change is these fees. We want through those fees exactly to distinguish that soldier who's in the military from that soldier when he has extra activity. Up until now, only a structural position has been paid, and no work has been paid. If someone goes to the field it's work, it's extra work, it has to have another fee compared to who isn't on duty or on watch, it's from our position. And I think we've made it clear that we're going to move on and you've well noticed that we're left with overtime, understands now the position of soldiers, we're left with work for holidays, nights, Saturdays, Sundays and all. That's all the Croatian soldier used to have. In some processes, however, all of this was taken away from the Croatian soldier. And now we want to access the gradual return of all the material rights clearly as much as we have. And there was the same question for these three compensations just provided by the Ministry of Defense that we can give people these fees this year. We opened the question, I'm so glad, my colleague Stazic answered the question. To prepare, and you're fine, Mr. Stazic and the Solidarity Fund that hasn't been up until now. Exactly what will enable us here we have now had life situations, you saw the situation with our first member, Maria Pavosic, who died, or man died on the mission. Right now, through these certain activities of life we want people to know that it is the system that takes care of them, that is, what needs additionally through this solidarity fund that we also want to put transparently within the Croatian winning army and that it is just benefiting us in these situations. You know by now that the Croatian Army has shown and shows a lot of solidarity and that we have been involved in a lot of these actions to help certain groups that are vulnerable. However, we and within the framework of the system want through this solidarity fund that we also have a responsibility to care for our people, or some such extraordinary situation that we can systematically, in a systematic way, react. So here I would like to once again at the end of this debate to thank all of you for all these suggestions, suggestions, comments. Clearly, there are differences which are good things, we are a democratic society and I think that these differences and all these comments will make us better and better, therefore, surely we will do our utmost to do everything that is important in the function of Croatian soldiers in the development of the upgrade of the victorious Croatian Army and in the function of all these processes, so that we will once again install it in this second reading, so that these amendments and additions to the Service Act in the second reading to be precisely in the function of the Croatian soldier and to be able to be able to make that soldier feel that the system at this given moment has given him everything he can and clearly, clearly, that there is also the responsibility of us or the entire system in the military that we are always stronger to respond to all these risks, the threats that we are facing. And you saw in that part except for Croatia the development of all the abilities that are important for the Croatian Army that we are present outside, and this serves us one contribution, and on the other hand that everything that is good to share with our partners and allies, but also some of the things that allies, partners do better to watch the same through the system of lessons learned to serve us. And you saw now and an example when it was in Poland so our soldiers had some competition was in sport, it was in football. Well, it's nice to see you, so the Croatian soldier was the first in Poland. Or now recently when there was a competition you also saw in Lithuania shooting guns, shooting guns in Lithuania. There were also members of Germany, the Netherlands, France, Belgium, Luxembourg. In that environment, our soldiers were the first to shoot a rifle and a gun. So that's something we're proud of, but we clearly have to work very hard to get all these abilities that are important in the context of the Croatian Army to solve. You have seen that we have finally agreed on the situation of the helicopter repairs, so we are now in the implementation of this contract that has its dynamics, so that these capabilities of the 171ESH helicopter to be obtained through 2018 and 2019. What matters very much to us, which is this decision about a multi-purpose combat plane. It is the same decision that is ahead of us and we are doing everything possible to make this decision process responsible and to make this decision equally affordable for the whole system and for the whole of Croatia. Here, once again honored MPs and MPs thank you. So I say, in the second part, we will include everything that is useful, well in that second proposal when it comes to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68238	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68239	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, therefore full support in your efforts to raise the level of equipment and conditions in which the Croatian soldier operates and performs his duties. Today, from a number of colleagues and colleagues, and you mentioned, it was said that by joining NATO, we were one wrong understanding that, after that umbrella, we did not have to develop our army specifically, and there was a lot of savings on the Croatian soldier and on the development of these systems, which was not good at all. I'm glad when you say you need to raise the level of professionality of Croatian soldiers. And what I especially appeal to you, don't forget education and science, leave the doctrine that the Chief of Staff of your time said in the sentence "we need more muscle and less fat" and thought that the ratio between soldiers and officers should be reduced in favour of soldiers. Let your motto be "the more knowledge and competence it takes, the more muscle it takes, because the development of new technologies, application in the military and ultimately and in the previous law that we have seen the role of education is irreplaceable, and here I think that there is much help for the Croatian soldier, and then the level of security and defence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68240	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68241	First of all, it's about overtime. You're saying, "Until now, only a structural position has been paid, and now work will be paid." So it's not the devil that only a structural position has been paid, so I guess people have been doing something in that structural position? I guess they're doing something, huh? Look at your position right now, your function is a military-grade position you're not a soldier, you're a minister, but your structural position is a minister. So does your hours end at 4:00 p.m.? No, I don't. Well, you work as hard as you need. Do you charge overtime? Well, no, you can't. When you agreed to be a minister, you gave this up. Goodbye. Someone else can charge overtime. You don't. So I don't think a soldier can either. He can't because he's a soldier. Goodbye, hello. It works by order, and the order can come at 2:00 a.m., get up and go to this position and do as you're told. Second, you say the Solidarity Fund. I support solidarity. It's solidarity between a group. Well, we do now. The unions have their solidarity funds. The soldiers who don't have a union can be solid inside themselves, set up some kind of fund and say – here's what we're going to do for those of us who need this help. This has nothing to do with this bagging that the health minister suggests for the sick children additionally frustrating parents and children as if they were not punished enough that their child is seriously ill, but he must also insult them and humiliate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68242	The answer of the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68243	Dear fellow Stazic, about this part of your comment on the construction site, that is, this part of the fee. This call is specific and now that we have been in the process of all these proposals we have seen it in other armies, that in other developed democratic states and there believe me Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Denmark, for example, the soldier has a fee for field work. And that's what we put in that field work, so when a man is longer than 10 hours, those armies have it. It's a specificity of a military call unlike any other profession, I'm not saying for other professions that the same things shouldn't be regulated in the best possible way for a profession and profession. The duty too, believe me in all the meanings in all these armies is something which is the same specific of the same military call, that is, especially this guard. That's the same thing, these are all the specificities of a military call, these are certain fees, clearly they are prescribed how much, but that's something extra and all these armies of all these developed democratic states of NATO have and I think it's time for us to put that same system of compensation in one way as it is in other developed democratic states. And I'm glad you said you'd support it, too, and I thank you too, colleague Franco Vidovic, that as a club, you will support all these proposals of the Service Act in the Armed Forces, and here I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68244	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude with this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68245	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 266. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 125 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68246	And we will move on to the next point - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 176 The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68247	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. The original law, which is the law amending the 2013 Credit Institutions Act, was adopted in order to comply with the requirements for compliance with the new legal framework at European Union level in the area of banking, and the provisions so-called “banking” have been transposed. CRD IV. Directives. This is Directive No 36 of 2013 on the accession of the activities of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and the implementation of Regulation 575 of 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. In 2015, in order to transpose part of the directive establishing a framework for the recovery and rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment firms, therefore, Directive No. In 2014, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions relating to recovery plans drawn up by credit institutions, early intervention measures taken by the Croatian National Bank when the legal requirements and financial support agreements of the group are met. The most important changes we make to this amendment and by supplementing the law are, above all, the contributions of the article No. The main reason why it is necessary to amend the Credit Institutions Act is, therefore, the fact that, when transposing the Directive to the Credit Institutions Act in 2013, Article 103 of that Directive, which regulates the application of supervisory measures to institutions of similar risk profiles, is not explicitly transposed. This law therefore needs to be done because the European Commission requires the Republic of Croatia to fully transpose Article 103 of the Directive in force. This change gives the Croatian National Bank one more time and actually confirms the power to establish, if the conduct of a supervisory audit, that credit institutions similar to risk profiles e.g. similar business models or geographical position of exposure are or could be exposed to similar risks and pose similar risks to the financial system, it may apply the same way of carrying out a supervisory and express equal supervisory measures. The Croatian National Bank will inform the European Banking Authority, etc. EBU. It is important to note here that the Croatian National Bank, and under the current legislative framework, can impose such a measure regardless of the fact that Article 103 of the Directive in question is not explicitly transposed into the law itself, but in practice there has been no need for them so far. The second important amendment is to allow for the implementation of Regulation No. 537 of 2014 in the part of the statutory audit of credit institutions. The application of this Regulation has been ensured by the large part by the adoption of the new Audit Act which has been in force since the beginning of this year. And since credit institutions are entities of public interest its application is necessary to ensure this law in the part of the legal audit of credit institutions. In this part of the amendments, three items are the first to determine the longest period of 7 consecutive years in which the same audit company can carry out legal audits for the same credit institution. The second is that the continuation of the statutory audit of the credit institution is permitted by the same audit company after 4 years. And thirdly, the audit firm shall not perform non-audit services prescribed by the regulation without the use of exceptions in the year in which the statutory audit is carried out. The third important amendment to the law is that the provisions have been developed in relation to the acquisition of a qualifying share. Therefore, provisions on the holding of a qualifying share in a credit institution are harmonised with the guidelines on the prudential assessment of acquisitions and the increase of qualifying shares in the financial sector adopted by the European Supervisory Authorities. The information exchange process between the competent authorities of the different Member States in issuing the prior consent to acquire a qualifying share shall be coordinated primarily in part of the deadlines with the technical standard adopted by the European Banking Supervisory Authority. The fourth important change is that additional protection of creditors has been introduced in the acquisition and merger of credit institutions. Therefore, the amendments introduce additional protection of creditors and clients of credit institutions in the event of merger and accession of credit institutions based in and outside the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the credit institution is obliged to notify creditors of the accession or merger, and no later than 2 months before the publication of the joint accession plan or merger, as well as the way in which it intends to ensure the fulfilment of their requests or the way in which it will receive the fulfilment of obligations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, unless the credit institution has settled all its obligations to creditors from the Republic of Croatia prior to accession or merger. More detailed rights and obligations are then developed in the event of the establishment of a branch. The resolution procedure has also been completed to a lesser extent. Furthermore, this change increases consumer protection, therefore, in part of the general information on services, they have been improved. A more detailed way to publish general information on bank services and to deliver information when contracting services is required. Then, free delivery of the payment plan is prescribed, so it is prescribed that the credit institution is liable to the consumer at its request for free of charge and, at any time during the entire duration of the loan contract, to make the report available in the form of a payment plan. The obligation to repay the obligor and all instruments of the collateral of the credit paid is prescribed. It is prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to submit a report on the total balance of debt with the balance on the day of transfer of demand and debt structure according to the following paragraphs, principal, interest, compensation and other costs. This report on the total balance of debt shall be submitted with notice of a derogation of demand, i.e. the plasma itself, for which the consent of the debtor or the consumer is not required. The main news prescribed by the Final Bill in relation to the bill we had in our first reading. The conditions for assessing suitability for membership in the management and supervisory board of the credit institution shall be in line with the guidelines on the assessment of the suitability of the management body members and key function holders adopted by EBA and ESMA on 26 September 2017 and the guidelines on internal management adopted by EBA. The novelty is that the conditions for the relevant expertise, skills and experience necessary to perform the duties of a member of the board of directors or of a supervisory board must also be met by all members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, together with an earlier condition that these requirements are met individually. For example, board members and supervisory boards may not be all lawyers, although they meet the requirements at individual level. The part prescribed for the regular winding-up procedure of the credit institution has been completed. An obligation shall be imposed on the credit institution to deliver the winding-up plan to the CNB. The CNBs will assess the plan from the aspect of the rights of creditors, the stability of the financial system and the effectiveness of the plan itself. Without a positive opinion from the CNB, regular liquidation will not be possible, nor will the decision of the main assembly implement legal effects. An article that regulates the obligation of a credit institution to inform the consumer of the payment of the total loan has been developed, informs him of how to take over the obligor and all other instruments of the payment of the credit. It is new to inform the debtor of the existence of the right of third parties and of further conditions for issuing the obligor if a loan is made in place of the debtor or part of the payment of a third party. The credit institution shall continue to inform all third parties who have partially or fully paid that credit in the same way. In accordance with the recommendations of the Committee... in the light of the adoption of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, a provision is added under which a person who is legally convicted of criminal offences or is an associate or person acting jointly with a person convicted of criminal offences under this law does not have a good reputation. In order to determine whether the acquirer has a qualified share or a potential member of the credit institution's administration has a good reputation, the CNB is authorised to obtain information from the Ministry of Justice or from the European Criminal Records System on the powers of criminality for members of the credit institution's management. Furthermore, nomotechnical provisions have been developed according to the observations of the Committee on Law and the observations of other competent authorities. It is proposed that the law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. And here, just in conclusion, this law carries out further compliance with Directive 36 from 2013 in accordance with the European Commission's comments and requests. The part relating to the implementation of the statutory audit of credit institutions as public-interest entities is being arranged and parts of the laws for which the practice has shown that they need to be improved and the scope of consumer protection is further regulated. For all these reasons, we propose the adoption of this law. And here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68248	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68249	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Tufekčić, we have heard well now that the Croatian National Bank has tools in hand for a great vision, that it will fix the situation on, better said mess on the money market and on credit institutions. And I'm wondering, do you have any control over the CNB? Can you influence them to carry out some super vision? Here, I am particularly interested in why Governor Vujčić has not updated his property card since 2012, so in seven years, there is obviously no significant change. How is it possible that he receives 630 thousand kuna net salary annually, how is it even possible that someone has such a salary in the state service without having an apartment, no house, no car and no savings? Now, I'd really like to find out, so how is that possible? So first, if that kind of money was paid out of the budget, why don't we just do some sort of order to keep it in line with the other receipts? And on the other hand, when you're getting that kind of money, how come you don't own anything? And nothing at all. Here we read that Governor Vujcic, drives his wife's C3 citroen from 2005. Come on, good luck. It doesn't have to go on a tram. But I don't know where the other one goes. Well, here's what we have to do. We've got parliamentary agents, I guess, and you, too, report what's still not a toothpick, and he's somewhere, and he doesn't have to do anything about it. And in the last seven years, not once. So how can we accept that someone who isn't capable of doing a supervision of himself is doing a supervision of us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68250	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGE's Club, the first representative, Goran Aleksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68251	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have prepared a total of 7 amendments of which are 6 of the content of nature, so here I will present these amendments with reasons why these amendments need to be accepted. Therefore, these amendments are all in accordance with Directive 93/13, in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations and are ultimately in line with the relevant case law of the Court of Justice of the EU and courts throughout the European Union which judge in consumer protection procedures. There is no reason why these amendments should not be accepted, and the reason that could exist is just to close your eyes to the truth. And the truth is that banks, i.e. credit institutions, continue to lead Croatian citizens ahead of our eyes because they are applying illegal interest rates because they have robbed people with an illegal currency clause of the Swiss franc, which I must say is not yet officially illegal, but I believe it will be because it is in Spain because it is in Germany because it is so in Slovenia because it is so in Greece, because the EU Court of Justice has made its own right to deal with the contracts in which the currency clause is agreed, because we are now waiting for the final decision of the High Court of Commerce to decide whether the banks in Croatia have negotiated an unfair contractual provision on the currency clause Swiss franc. I don't know which tool the High Court of Commerce might explain this time that the banks were working in a proper and legal manner. Indeed, what magic it is and what magic wand to do it is I have no idea we'll see in a few months, because there's no reason for the repeat procedure at the High Commercial Court to last longer than a few months. So let me start with the amendments. In Article 69 of the Amendment to the Credit Institutions Act, I propose that Article 150 be added beyond paragraphs 9 and 10, and I will read them complete and then explain why it is necessary. Article 9 – If a credit institution offers to sell a debt, the consumer shall have the right to first purchase the debt at a reduced price, before the potential purchase of the payments at a reduced price, the credit institution shall offer the consumer a write-off of the debt as a percentage of the debt reduction for the planned sale of plasma to the potential new creditor, and allow the consumer to pay the rest of the debt within 30 days or to reprogram it, or to reprogramme the loan after the write-off of a portion of the debt if it is creditworthy to pay the debt to a reprogrammed or new credit. That would be item 9. So now I'm going to explain why it's necessary. So, if the bank already decides, or a credit institution, if it already decides to sell its lease at a price that is 20% of the price that this placement really is worth, why wouldn't it prescribe the right of the first purchase to the debtor in which he is able to buy out his debt at such a low price? Why wouldn't a credit institution be obliged to offer a debtor a 20% debt to him, so in as long as he can find the money to buy it, he can pay it back if he can find a loan, he can pay it off with no credit whatsoever, but why would we let some agency make a living there for years on tight interest? Because what's going on? When the debt goes to the agency, the agency can now dispose of the debt however it pleases. And what are the agencies actually doing? First of all, they are very undersupervised, and second of all, they are actually stalling as long as possible because they are constantly earning the debt. What do they make? Tight interest. Debtor's been paying off a tight interest for years without even touching the principal. And if the banks of the credit institutions had to offer first to the debtor what they would offer to the believer in the future, perhaps a large part of those placements would be returned to the banks at that reduced price. So much for item 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – The new believer who bought the placement at the request of the debtor must provide him with data on the debt situation within 8 days according to the following paragraphs: principal, interest, compensation and other costs. Therefore, what is already provided for in the amendments to this law that the bank must do after selling its placement, it is also necessary to further prescribe a new believer that, at the request of the debtor, it must supply those data. I know because people say they have problems with it, that these agencies don't want to provide them with data because it's in their best interest to know that they don't know, that they don't know what the debt is, that the debtor with that grandmother with whatever she knows and can do and that she pays tight interest is of interest to them. I think the interest is very obvious. The interest is called profit. On whom? Profit on whoever's at risk, who's got the least. I think we can prevent it from adding these two items. If you do not prevent, at least ease and reduce the problem on the Croatian market. The following amendment concerns Article 136. Therefore, Article 302(5) should apply in full to the following: ‘In the light of the draft contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the credit institution is obliged to grant to the consumer, without charge, an overview or an electronic version of the relevant provisions from the applicable general conditions of business, interest rate policies, fees, and any other acts of the credit institution which may affect the financial position of the consumer, with an explanation of the impact in which the consumer will be summarised of the relevant information that enables him to assess the economic consequences of those provisions.’ But what was added? It is added that the explanation given to the consumer must be summarised. Therefore, the consumer must be summarised with relevant information that enables him to assess the economic consequences of these provisions. This is in line with Directive 93/13 which speaks of unfair contractual provisions, and they are unfair because they have not been negotiated and because the consumer has not been given transparent information about the product that it negotiates. If we implement such a provision in the law, additionally, banks will be ordered to inform consumers of all the economic consequences of the contractual loan on the basis of this Directive. If credit institutions had done so when they placed the currency clause on the Swiss franc, it would not have been these loans but only in the tracks. No, you wouldn't. Why? Because they would then inform consumers of the differences between the CHF and Euro currency clauses, they would inform consumers that CHF is the currency in which it escapes capital at a time of crisis, so CHF can jump overnight, they would also inform also that through the history of CHF the course has grown, that it is not the case that this currency is stable but on the contrary that it is unstable. Finally, they would inform consumers that even the International Monetary Fund has warned those credit institutions themselves that they are treating loans with a currency clause in the Swiss franc because the International Monetary Fund has predicted that the Swiss franc currency clause will grow relative to the euro. The banks did not inform consumers. If there was such a regulation, such as that, it was decided and clearly written, when banks contracted loans with the Swiss franc currency clause, then banks would inform debtors on the basis of such a regulation. But I am sure that even banks would not even try to borrow such loans to debtors because it would be impossible in one hazy way as they did in Croatia, but not only in Croatia but in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in Montenegro, both in Serbia and Greece. Imagine, in Germany, even a legal person was granted such a loan, so the German Supreme Court ruled that such a loan was unfair and worthless, so the legal person was entitled when she asked to declare the currency clause CHF unfair and worthless. Therefore, Article 5(5) of Article 302 should only be added a little bit and thus prevent any further non-transparent and not sufficiently clear situation from negotiating credit with consumers in the future. In accordance with Article 305, paragraph 8 is amended as follows: “The credit institution is obliged to the consumer at its request for free of charge and, at any time during the whole duration of the credit agreement, to make the report available in the form of a payment plan. In addition, at the request of the consumer, it must also provide all other relevant documentation from the credit relationship from which the information on the total paid principal, interest and costs, the copy of the loan contract, the payment specification and the review of the change in interest rates per loan is visible. The requirements set out in this paragraph shall be met by a credit institution within 15 days of the request received." And this item exists in the amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, but in my view is insufficient. It is therefore necessary to oblige credit institutions to supply all relevant credit information to the consumer at the time when the consumer requires the credit institution to do so. I have experience, and I know, people come to me, credit institutions today collect such data from 50 to 150 kuna for one alk of A4 formats. Because I can. If we give them such a thing, then they will not be able to charge fees for such documents, but they will simply print the data and deliver it to the consumer. It could possibly cost only postal expenses, nothing more. What 50, 150 kuna? It's like we asked the public notary for information. It's a shame. For the purposes of Article 140 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the following point is added: ‘If the credit institution has agreed with the consumer a variable interest rate in the loan contract and has not defined it with the consumer, and has agreed the parameters in accordance with Article 11(5). The consumer credit law shall not apply an interest rate higher than the initial agreed interest rate for the collection of annuities, i.e. variable meals. If, during the duration of the contractual relationship, the credit institution has unilaterally and outside the contractually defined the parameters and notified only to the consumer and has not agreed on the parameters, such a way of determining the parameters is not in conformity with the mandatory legal provisions on the way the credit is negotiated and, therefore, such a method of determining the parameters is not legally valid, i.e. it is zero. This paragraph also applies to credit agreements concluded before the entry into force of this Act, and this also applies to residential consumer loans agreed before the law laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article enters into force. Why is this item important? We all know, I hope that we all know that in the collective court process, the ruling was made that banks had negotiated unfair and thus harmless contractual provisions on a variable interest rate. In addition to the fact that these contractual provisions are unfair and therefore harmful, the judgment itself states something else. Banks are banned from such and similar treatment in the future. I repeat, banks are banned from such and similar treatment in the future. But what do banks do? On the basis of an amendment to the Consumer Credit Act at the beginning of 2014, banks shall voluntarily, unilaterally, outside contractually on the basis of an illegal increase in interest rate, on the basis of parameters which are valid at that time define a fixed interest margin. And this fixed interest margin that is defined, which is not consistent with the consumer and is generally not agreed with the consumer is greater than the initially agreed interest rate. Such a fixed interest margin is not valid. That it is not worth proof of the verdicts in civil litigation where people receive full amounts of overpaid interest until the day they filed the suit, for example by the end of 2015, and the banks set it in early 2014. Therefore, this is necessary in order to finally end the illegal manipulation of interest rates that Croatian banks are making contrary to the words of collective judgment in the case of francs. I'll move on in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68252	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68253	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Alexic, you have mentioned one important thing, which is that credit institutions sell debts for 20% of the principal. So if a citizen owes the bank 1000 kuna, the bank resells his debt for 200 kuna. The question arises why did no citizens have the same right? Why not offer them the first purchase right that you propose with this amendment of yours, because perhaps citizens would simply be able to pay off such a principal that is of course not burdened by interest or interest. But then their debt is resold to someone and then re-bursed, so with interest and expenses, so they're basically non-refundable. But I have to tell you, there's really nothing to be surprised about, because that's how the government does it. She herself has such a practice. First, the government would have to change itself. You have a case specifically Agrockor. So in Agrokor, the Knighthead Vulture Fund and others were given the right to win back 1 kuna for every 30 limes he invested, with the right to the championship. Why is the same right not given to Croatian banks? Why isn't that same right ultimately offered to the citizens? I'd be happy to invest 300 kunas if someone were to guarantee that I'd get 1,000 back. So it's simply a practice called the already popular debt market, and there's a huge amount of money going around that they don't have any citizens, but they benefit from these credit institutions that are supposed to be supervisory now, some order, etc. But they won't, so I'm afraid I'll have to tell you in advance that these amendments of yours will be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68254	The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68255	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, it is clear to me that these amendments will be rejected. Everything refuses what I suggest. So far, it has been accepted that future loans will not be charged, and only housing consumers will not be charged an entry and exit fee. It's one of the few things that's been accepted. Unfortunately, it is not accepted that this also applies to existing loans, and should have been accepted. Here is a recent court ruling in Split, which was ruled that Addiko Bank must repay 27000 kuna of the paid exit fee despite its agreement. So I was talking here that despite the fact that these exit fees were agreed that they weren't legal. Didn't listen to me. That's already the second powerful verdict that tells us that the exit fee has to be paid back to the debtor. The interest that banks have negotiated with debtors by the end of 2012 is illegal and largely due to these illegal huge interest rates, interest rates of people get into trouble. I will repeat the saying of Roman law that I have repeated many times here. Regula catoniana shows Quote initio vitiosum est, non potest tract temporis convalescere. What I can't tell you from the beginning won't improve over time. Therefore, at the beginning of the contractual relationship, the Bank agreed on an unfair contractual provision and that contractual provision simply must not apply. These amendments won't save people, but it'll make their position easier and legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68256	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague, and you said in this part, debt resales, and unfortunately in Croatia, there may be initiatives on the side of the opposition to agree, because what is currently going on in the Republic of Croatia, is a debt resale and you saw from banks or, in the CNB's report, that the last few years, over 10 billion citizens, the bank resales on the financial market and we remember very well, last year, when we warned and when the Minister of Finance, the Law on Profit Tax, changed that part and gave them that tax relief, where the minister himself pointed out that the banks would not be able to resell it, if they had to write that part off to the citizens. It means I can't write off and use the tax relief, and on the other hand they sold it to the market and now so on. d.o.o. Which no one can control, in fact, the CNB can control. And my people, there are 15 to 20 billion kunas in companies, companies, simple D.O.O. who no one can control, who no one controls. And it is today the biggest business in Croatia, let's be honest. And from what the president of 300,000 blocked citizens said yesterday, most of your debt is no longer in your domain, where even the legislator, or the CNB, can regulate it. And that is one balloon, which will burden the Croatian economy over the next five years. And that part you warned here today, through this law, unfortunately cannot react. However, I think that the government, and the opposition, must certainly take this seriously, because if it starts on some margins or some kind of secondary market, where there is no state control, you so-called. Butinari, if they manage that debt, I don't think they'll be able to get rid of this proud knot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68258	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68259	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow leader, I consider the session to actually be abused. The cessium isn't meant for someone to sell debts to. The cessium is actually made up of debt transfers. For example. We're in some kind of business relationship, I owe you some money and I don't have any money, but someone else who owes me that money and now I'm selling you his debt, so I can get rid of my debt. It's a legitimate cell. But this cell that works in the Republic of Croatia, where the bank sells to someone there a debt, so it's on the edge of the vegetables, it's on the verge of interest. It's a citizens' racketeering. Because what's going on? If I have a billion kuna somewhere extra, I don't know, some money, and I don't know where I'm going with it, I'm going to go buy somebody's debts for 500 million, these 500 I'm going to put aside, and now I'm risking that 500 million like a casino. I hope I get them back. And not that I'm going to get 500, I'm going to get 2 billion and 500 million kuna, back and all on tight interest. Well, that debtor who came into debt can never get to the capital again, because he keeps paying off a tight interest. And he spends his whole life paying for a tight interest and there's no end to it. So, I haven't talked about it so far, but I think this is the way a cell should be banned. There's no reason not to. The only normal reason for this is to break the debts of the two parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68260	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68261	Dear fellow Alekic, I think you're in the dark because you don't know them basically. Compensation can only occur between persons between whom there is a debt religious relationship. And the cessium is in this case the sale of the claim, where then that claim is cesspooled, to the third person. So, once and for all, we need to clarify that banks are holding our money, your savings, my savings, x y's citizens. These same banks again place the savings on a citizen who needs money at that point. What's this bank doing? So he charges interest, bigger, smaller, legal, illegal, and we can talk about it and charge that it could work, so that she can pay the employees' salaries, have and pay the material costs and the rest, but at the same time, he expects the debtor, therefore, who used those funds, pays, or return those funds to the bank, so that my savings and your savings would not come into question and that I could raise that savings as a saver. So let's not stand up as enemies, but, money, that money that we saved is a commodity that at this point is such that it has to produce some profit. And then this happens, that you, or I as a debtor, don't pay my dues, and the bank in another way, has to come up with that money to pay someone's savings. So we should think about that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68262	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68263	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I'm afraid you don't understand what this is about. Namely, compensation, I owe you 100,000 euros, this Mercedes worth 100,000 euros and in exchange for the debt, I give you that Mercedes, that's compensation. My colleague Bunjac owes me 100,000 euros and I sell his debt to you because I owe you 100,000 euros and now I don't owe him anymore, but he owes you. It's not compensation, it's cessium. It's a cessium. You know that's your cell. And as for the savings, so the banks in the Republic of Croatia, they're holding, I don't know, what, 200 billion kuna savings, as far as I don't know, right? a little more savings than credit. At the same time, banks in the Republic of Croatia give savings the same interest as in Germany about 0% almost nothing, those savings don't actually save but keep money in banks, they don't save that before. So the same interest is in Germany, the same interest is in Germany. However, the interest rate in Germany on loans is about 2% of residential consumer loans, exactly 1.57% on average, 1.57% on average, and in Croatia 3.57% on average. So in Croatia banks earn 200% more on housing loans than in Germany, 200% more. Why? Because of you, it is your fault, you allow it, you are the Committee on Finance, you are the one who protects the illegal, unfair business of Croatian banks. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68264	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which they will speak the respected representative of Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68265	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I have this Final Bill on Credit Institutions that has 366 articles, really a lot and changes something, but not as much as something that matters. So it would look back on me to the three most significant segments that change in this law and which I find very important, which is supervision of the revision, the provision of supervisory and the most important protection of consumers. This law transposes part of the EU Directive 2013/36 concerning Article 103. In fact, we have applied this article so far, but the fact that it applies to us is not enough but should be regulated by this law, and in fact, that may be good. Now all the powers of the CNB will be regulated by this law and it will have greater weight, there will be no doubt that the CNB needs to be controlled, which should not, which it should not, which it must not, which it must not. This law gives the CNB supervisory authority, so the CNB can monitor not only the credit institutions of the Republic of Croatia or those credit institutions to which it has granted work approval, but also credit institutions from other Member States providing services in the field of the Republic of Croatia. If the CNB had controlled and supervised all credit institutions providing services in the Republic of Croatia, and could have done so even though the law did not order him but he could have, surely they would not have had such problems as we had and certainly would not have happened to the RBA cooperatives and all those problems our citizens face. We now have the law and the CNB must implement it, and the results must be notified by the EBU to the European Banking Competent Authority. In the law, more newspapers are in line with the EU regulation on specific requirements regarding the legal audit of public-interest entities, and credit institutions are public-interest entities. Otherwise, we have also adopted the Audit Act in the Assembly, and it is so limited that an audit company can be audited for a maximum of seven years in a credit institution, that four years after that, it must not audit the credit institution and also not perform audit services in that credit institution during the performance of audit services and in the year in which the audit is carried out. The law also provides for further improvements in the section on the liquidation of a credit institution and acquisition of a qualifying share. And what I have already said is that the most important thing is that this law provides for greater consumer protection. There's already been talk of a big problem here, and it's a debt sale. There is already great progress that has been built in here that the credit institution must inform the consumer which has not been the case so far, and this has been happening to us about the sale of their debts, meaning consumer debt, and with the exact amount of the principal, the amount of interest. In order to address this problem, there are not only credit institutions but there are other companies that sell their claims and where our citizens face really big problems. It is also a novelty to regulate the obligations of credit institutions to inform the consumer of the payment of the total loan and inform him of the way in which the obligor is taken over and all other insurance instruments from the paid credit. I have to say that we're witnessing that after several years it's been dragged and that there's been no deformity carried out in the garter, nor has the consumer got it. We also have an obligation to notify the debtor of the existence of third parties' rights and further conditions for issuing a demarcation if instead of the debtor pays the third party in full, the credit institution shall inform the debtor of the existence of the right of third parties. The credit institution shall also inform all third parties and the guarantees, the courts, the debtors who have paid the loan in part or in full. I also find that very important because we know from practice what the situation is for the moment and how many guarantees it pays off from those to whom it was guaranteed. We had a few changes compared to the first reading, we had where the conditions for a member of the board were changed. What is good, which was accepted from the debate in the first reading, is that the plan to liquidate credit institutions must be delivered to the CNB and also the obligation of the credit institution to inform the consumer of what I was just talking about. There are some technical changes and we believe that this law is correct and the HNS Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68266	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with his associates. The second reading of laws which in most of their articles actually comply with the EU Directive, i.e. primarily with the Directive, Article 103 of the Directive, where the Croatian National Bank is empowered to establish that credit institutions similar to risk profiles, mean similar business models or geographical position of exposure are or could be exposed to similar risks and pose similar risks to the financial system so that they can apply the same way of managing supervisory and express equal supervisory measures. Something is, this is actually a directive mostly from the EU where it is so-called. ... Undercover banking where things are set to conglomerate financially. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And when the financial crisis hit later, it didn't just touch the banks, but also these others that had so-called banks. this covert funding. And then in this part of the future, such a part is put under control, i.e. the supervision of the Croatian National Bank. The second is related to the implementation of the regulation in carrying out the statutory audit of credit institutions in the part of the regulation of the longest period of time during which the same audit company may carry out a statutory audit. We recently had the Audit Act, then there was a debate on how many years it should be and how the revision points to certain irregularities. We've seen it in a company that's been set up to miss the audits. Unfortunately, in the past, we have also seen the failures of the audit in certain banks, not only in Croatia, but in banks and outside. We know that many audit houses have also failed because, as regards the audit itself and the evaluations of the value that they have affected the overall financial situation, so that in this context this law is strengthened, it means that some of the higher powers of the CNB are in order to strengthen its supervisory control. This law also proposes to remove any possible interference in the implementation of the resolution of credit institutions in accordance with the Law on the recovery of credit institutions, investment firms are implemented by the State Agency on the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks. The resolution procedure shall be carried out on the very credit institution which is in the public interest and in the process of recovery shall seek to preserve that public interest. You had an example of public interest keeping, actually although it in its total share of assets did not mean so much to the Croatian banking system was the Adriatic Bank in Sibenik. But she had a public interest in the entire Sibenik-Knin County, for the whole go down, the whole region, for the citizens who held the money for the companies that were tied up to the Adriatic Bank. And in this context, this part where the public interest was determined and the Croatian bank determined public interest along with the DAB to actually enter with their administration, change management and stabilise the business of the bank. In the context of these amendments, it is said that the Croatian National Bank cannot be granted approval for the operation of the credit institution of the recovery while such a procedure is ongoing. So that function is strengthened when a credit institution finds itself in such a problem. It is also proposed to amend one of the conditions under which the Croatian National Bank may submit a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against a credit institution, and in the event that the DAB or the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks as a recovery body rejects the proposal of the Croatian National Bank for the opening of the recovery procedure of that credit institution. It is stated that it is not a significant change, because if DAB, it would have established that there are no conditions for the implementation of the recovery procedure then a motion for recovery would be rejected so that in practice it should be extremely rare, but the applicant sought to regulate that part too. What Mlakar's colleague said is a very important article, and it's about when we have a governor like we said meteorologist, right? What did we say? He, as he was saying that he said that he could not act, but that he would warn. That's what we told the governor. I see today we're talking about his reelection. Is it his warning, warning of Swiss, warning of RBA cooperatives, or is it his that with such articles as her colleague Mlakar here said to come before the Parliament, come to the Ministry of Finance, come through this club and say that, we have seen phenomena on the financial market which can damage Croatian citizens because they control it. The money they control, and then an institution like this appears to you, there were RBA cooperatives who knew they were actually doing business in Croatia and they are now 10 or 15 years after the government, or a colleague of Shkibol, thus forcing the government to solve this problem appears here an article that says there will be no future RBA cooperative in Croatia. So from about 15 to 20 years late in the Republic of Croatia and now the CNB is said to be able to extend the power to monitor consumer protection and to credit institutions from other Member States providing their services in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Now now that everyone has responded, after the government has responded with its article, that is, to a colleague of the Skibola, after in fact the public has risen and for a long time here we now have in one law that they should now follow those who have actually made a mess on the financial market. And today we're reading in public whether that thumb will be worse or lower for the governor. So we've said that in this House of High he's chosen, this High House needs to be manifested, and you've seen the last time and how these reports come. I don't know when we last had some kind of report from the Croatian National Bank or some half-year-old, when we talked about business and very, very important because we're also talking about reselling the debt market here, and I think it's good to talk about it here because this problem is going to escalate, it's already escalated into the Republic of Croatia. And then it won't be possible, unfortunately, that's why we're warning, once again, that the President of the Republic has warned us that we have 42 billion debts, you see that part of the debt doesn't shrink. And you saw last year that the finance minister was well-intentioned and we welcomed it, went to the banks and told you here's a tax relief, don't finally resell those debts, we're going to go as a write-off, a discharge. However, we do not have any report from the CNB and should actually get from the IRS how much they used these reliefs, how much they used and how much they resold that debt on the market. And let's see if there was any abuse in that work of what the minister himself was announcing here, and in that part we gave support to go solve because look, the government will no longer have the instruments, no more instruments. You gave them tax breaks, you gave them certain changes to the law, the government trust me, in which year there is no implementing law, they won't have if that part of the market has so grown to... up to 20 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government will no longer be able to act, that part of the debt is located in the simple d.o.o. and they are traded in that part. And now what part of that whole part of the amount goes away, here is only talking about the citizens' notice of that part of the debt, and I guarantee you that in that part who solves this problem, certainly from 3% to 4% of GDP, the new generation because all those people in that part of the debt, are where? In the gray zone, in the so-called. The gray economy, right? Because they just can't people, and they have to live, all of their obligations and debts have to pay, and then we see how much they lose later on, state through the whole part. So once again as far as the law itself is concerned, we do not have certain too many objections, counterpart Alexic has made certain amendments and proposals, but what points to this part where... The CNB is only working on the second part where we talked today about this problem where unfortunately the government will have to deal with it, yesterday it spoke about the prime minister, we will support it, but I fear we will no longer have the instruments and supervision to manage it or we will have to come with some hybrid, new laws because what is happening in Croatia is not happening to any European country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No European state has, when I was a minister about it, I've been very actively holding talks with all finance ministers, no country has 300,000 blocked citizens, 10% of its population, none of the countries in Europe have that. I, when I tried to speak to the Czech Minister... No one understands me, says it's possible that you have 10% of your citizens blocked, that's impossible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And unfortunately, that problem, so once again I say, we will support the government there because I think it is a common interest for everyone to solve these built problems, but unfortunately this agony will go on longer because it has now gone beyond the possibility of the state to regulate that part and I'm afraid if we don't regulate it for a short time, that this problem will be solved for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68268	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, I have two questions for you for short. Why has the governor's appearance in the Parliament been delayed for six months? It means his report on monetary policy and financial stability, achieving goals. Is he trying to protect the CNB and the governor from responsibility? Is that why the euro is forced on the public scene to camouflage? And another question. For the bonds without Agrokor's cover that were broadcast, in which large companies participated and less, we all know. Do you think it's the parallel lending that the banks were involved in because they practically founded the factoring of society? Why doesn't the CNB and its leading man clear and sanction that practice? Is this about playing the Credit Institutions Act? And why is the ruling coalition protecting just like this CNB?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68270	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, why is there no report? I hope there's going to be a very good report. It seems to me that we're the last report, now we're in 2018, it seems to me 2016 was, was the first semester we solved... It's not even 2016 yet, yeah. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We'll see, but it'll all work out in that context. What matters to me and I didn't agree with my colleague here when it came to that financial stability report, did you see the date the last financial stability report was issued to Minister Maric and Mr Governor when they discussed it? So they had a few months ago, it seems to me that we talked about it, that about five, six months ago when Agrokor... That's right, that's when the record was made. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That's what I was talking to my colleague Marić about, is that it was purposely done by the CNB, that it was said in this way that they did it all, so a little greased the minister's chair, I don't know, it's up to them to decide, but I think it was very incorrect, and on the other hand, how much they would be related to the business of the currency, ultimately yes, they confirmed that the ultimate responsibility was the CNB because they were owners in that part. If you look at consolidated groups and factoring society is actually a business of banks, and the issue and if there was a issue of a currency without cover. Look, unless we have a monetary system that can't control a Swiss franc that can't control an RBA cooperative, which can't control business bonds, my people, which we're talking about anymore. Why do we need a National Bank like that when we have three monetary... They influence us, and every time they tell us that they were neat and we couldn't influence them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68272	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68273	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Lalovec, you said that basically the governor has been acting like a weather forecast all this time and that they've failed, that they've been late with reactions and you're talking about how practically the CNB controls a little bit, but what's even more devastating, that the CNB doesn't allow their business to be controlled. How can we talk about transparency, when one institution does not allow, that what is a practice in all European countries, where a state audit can enter into an institution in Croatia that must not happen. And twice in this House of Commons, we've made a bill of law. Remember, the governor has decided to get a letter from the European Central Bank, as we can amend the CNB Act and we're just looking for a state audit at the CNB, we've asked for a limit of mandate and we've asked for a vote on the CNB report. And so twice it's been rejected. HDZ counterparts, 40 ruling majority deputies, signed an initiative for the bill in the first Oreskovic government. When the vote came, all HDZ's against it. All HDZ's against it. You said you'd support it, unfortunately your colleagues have failed, both times. And it's no longer an accident, but we won't give up and we'll continue to refer it to the procedure. And as far as accomplished citizens and presidents are concerned, nothing's happening. We have had changes, we have also referred to these amendments that we have agreed with HDZ, 10 amendments, all amendments have been rejected. My colleague Pernar came to me during the debate, says Grmoy, if this goes through, this is a violation of debt slavery, which you suggested, but it didn't pass, everything was rejected. And again we have stories and we keep saying how many people we have blocked and nothing happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68274	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68275	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Grumoja, yes, I say, I am sorry that there was not a majority in these certain amendments to the CNB Act and I, when I was and as minister, had my own personal position, and even then, at that point, did not quite like it, my personal position. I said, in that I will personally support you, because I think, if the President of the Republic of Parliament can have, all the most important institutions in this country have audits, accounts, where they have traveled, where they have, because they are actually funded, are funded by the decisions of this House. And it's also the CNB's decision. It says we don't finance ourselves from the state budget. And my people, how do you finance yourselves? You're funding the decisions of this House. They're being funded, the way we've made the decision that they're being financed. So they're not on the market, that they can. They're actually, we're their congregation. We are their congregation and what we say in this part of the law, how it will be financed, how it will be arranged in that part of the business. It is unique and legitimate and therefore a parliamentary democracy to come and... So I hope the door's a little out of the way, no matter what it's not going on first, but we're on a good path, especially here, now that there's a choice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it might be a good idea for some new governor to offer such an openness to the CNB and then get our full support... support from all MPs, not just certain individual agreements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68276	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68277	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lalovac, you mentioned warnings that the governor and Rohatinski allegedly said, and later, Governor Vujčić's jokes were placed through the public here in the Parliament, something little talked about the franc. However, these warnings were minimalistic. No, therefore, the regulator should regulate the work of credit institutions. Regulation of the work of credit institutions means to lay down criteria for how a particular product can be placed. Let's just remember the president of Zaba Lukovic's board. He spoke publicly about how he knew that these Swiss loans were no good, but when he saw other banks doing it, he did it, too. It's about the same, like now the two of us are selling some pigs, I'm selling healthy pigs, you're getting infected, you're selling at twice the price. And I'm saying, look, at twice the price of selling, I'm going there to buy those cheap pigs from the neighbors, so I'm going to sell pigs like that. It's the same thing. It's a crime, it's a crime. And this has already been condemned in the EU as a crime in France, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Spain, I hope that with us, but I hope that the DORH will also start doing its job, because the credit institutions that placed the Swiss franc and the unfair interest rate have been reported in 2015. The DORH, however, has not yet acted on the application. I believe that the banks systematically, systematically placed toxic products, systematically negotiated an illegal interest rate, because they did not do so west of Croatia, but just east of Croatia. So it's the systematic behavior of banks that must be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68278	Thank you very much. Next, I'm sorry, the answer of the esteemed representative, Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, just for a while, unfortunately, you see when a single minister can't give a warning, so he's being sanctioned immediately, by any minister,... if it gives a warning, is the Minister of the Interior etc. He's got to work, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Minister of Finance works, Minister, you see how, when he doesn't solve certain focal crises, the diameter works, right? Oil, problem, we need to find a guarantee, etc. The most important function, says I warn, imagine the prime minister coming to say, if I warn that something will happen in Ulnik, imagine the prime minister has warned. So what now? You know what he can say and he can say, it's a private firm, right, he can say the same INA is a private firm, the prime minister says I warn that something's going on there. How would the public react to a prime minister who would say that he warns that something is happening in private companies? The governor who's in charge of it and the prime minister all call out if he's dealt with the INA, has dealt with Petrokemi and how he'll handle it. The governor, he warns, and we all agreed that he only warns here, and we bring him in and we tell us what you need, we see what problems we have and let him tell us now what it takes to settle a 20 billion-dollar debt resell. Who will say what I should write as you said and the governor to say that this is the market that we kicked out of the banking sector, which we didn't know how to solve, the state gave in that part of the incentive, the banks screwed up they used reliefs and resell that part now, whether they come and say they'll get rid of that part of the debt or say my term is six years old... only by the euro, and for this second whoever has the euro in Croatia will be, who won't be likely to move out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68280	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68281	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there is a very large proposal for amending the law ahead of us, but not only extensively text and materially but also large in what it changes and I think it's very quality and very well done. Allow me before I refer to the law itself to say on behalf of the club what we are watching and how we see what this law is essentially trying to solve. Why I use the word I'm trying to see you later. So first of all, this alignment with EU directives is a fundamental reason, but two things are very important inside, so it is important that the provisions in several articles define the different behaviour of banks towards the Croatian citizens above all, and I think that this is the consequence of both the pressures and the political actions of some of our fellow MPs because some things could not be affected so far, but now they can. The third thing that's very important, but whether we're just going to stay on the text regulations of the law or we're going to define it differently, we're going to see it, and that's the definition of the power of the CNB because when you look at this law textally then we're going to agree in some shades all that it defines things well, but the key story of every law is that the regulator is the one who controls the law's implementation that law implements, so that's the key thing. And here, first of all, I think of the CNB because we have one here, and that's as far as the law relating to the CNB is always the same situation, so the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The finance ministry, however, when you look at all the laws or the finance minister, so the Prime Minister has virtually no authority over the CNB. That's the facts. And now I'm going to say something, when we've changed the CNB Act before in the EU's finality then, among other things, this famous half-yearly report put in. However, the intention is also for those who wrote the law, which is the Ministry of Finance, which is exactly what I'm talking about right now, which is that through that half-yearly report, through the debate in the Croatian Parliament, you can see how much CNB as a controller, as a regulator of credit institutions is acting and how much the law implements. So that was the purpose of that half-yearly report, not to get us into the statistical data tables that the Ministry of Finance also has and the DZS, keep that story to us, and we take that report to our attention and we're done, but the key thing is whether through that report we're going to get information about how this law applies, that's crucial to me. Because if we also pass the best law in this House, if it does not apply, if the CNB does not respond in time to certain anomalies that occur in the financial sector in Croatia, then we have in principle not passed any law. And one question that, given the speed of events to say this to me here very often we like to use the financial industry as quickly as it reacts, how the market at certain times does not go hand in then they invent a new product, the question is how many of these EU directives are how much they cough for these things. Do they respond in time, do they predict some of the things that will happen and in this direction direct the adoption of national legislation? So these are simply questions that have to be asked after everything that's happened in Croatia, and also as it happens in some other countries. But what does this law suggest? So first of all, this is a harmonisation with the directives governing the application of supervisory measures to institutions of similar profile risks, so that provision is not explicitly transposed when our last amendments to the Credit Institutions Act were made and therefore the European Commission requires the Republic of Croatia to transpose Article 103 of the Directive in force. Therefore, the Croatian National Bank is given and once again confirmed by the authority. That's why I was saying this all together in the introduction. If we give and confirm the authority of someone to control the provisions of the law, then also if something happens, some kind of anomaly to use that word or disorder on the financial market, if they haven't responded in time, if they haven't taken certain steps then they haven't fulfilled this. Because we don't need to be too smart about it, now go get the article. So, with a series of articles, we give them powers, we give them powers. Because we're the ones who make the law. Because now a fundamental question is being raised, given that I told you a little while ago, that the Ministry of Finance is proposing a law, however, not a single finance minister, and there are two of us who have never had any authority, not a chance at the Central Bank. But that's why powers can have this High House. And with no intention of chasing someone, it's just to make things right. And if we've given someone the authority to control how he exercises those powers. It is therefore authorised to establish, when carrying out a super-audit, that credit institutions similar to risk profiles such as similar business models or geographical position of exposure are or could be exposed to similar risks and pose similar risks to the financial system. So, there's everything clearly said. It is also possible to implement EU Directive 537/2014 in part of the statutory audit of credit institutions. Therefore, the application of this Regulation is ensured by the majority of the adoption of the Revision Act. Until we had amended the Revision Act which defined how and how the revision was controlled by companies, we could not have incorporated the provisions into this law either. So in this part, there are three things that have been applied. Therefore, the longest time sickness of 7 consecutive years is determined. That's what we defined in the company audit. The continuation of the statutory audit of credit institutions in the same audit company is allowed after four years. And the audit firm shall not provide non-audit services for a credit institution. So, the exact same definition as for companies. Finally, credit institutions are also institutions of public interest, and the logical thing is that we should also reflect that audit provision with them. Because look at what I've been telling you and at the Audit Law that certain institutions stick to the law and enforce the law, then a lot of things wouldn't happen. Because if you pay an expensive and greasy auditor to do a review, it does a review and then it is later realized that this audit has nothing to do with real facts and nothing to do with anyone. Who's carrying the responsibility? Someone who's politically exposed, because it's convenient to hit him with some kind of arrow publicly, and those who should have done the job, who owns it, whether it's a state or a private owner, to warn him that certain disorders are happening, that something was not well-recorded or done in that society with nothing. Oh, no? Therefore, provisions have been developed in relation to the acquisition of a qualifying share. Therefore, provisions on the holding of a qualifying share in a credit institution are harmonised with guidelines on credit assessment, acquisition and increase of qualifying shares in the financial sector adopted by the European Supervisory Authorities. Then we have an additional protection of creditors in the acquisition and merger of credit institutions. It's in that segment where I talked first of all about citizens having to get information if there was a merger of credit institutions like their balance sheet, let me put it in the language of the people. What is their condition now in this new state, the new organisational form when someone has joined. And that's what I say we need to force whoever provides us certain services to do us, because he's charging us fatly to inform us in time about all the changes and what can happen to us. Because in the end, if we already have a personal banker and everything, then the logical thing is if there are any changes that he warns you something will happen or that something might happen. Therefore, detailed rights and obligations have been elaborated in the event of the establishment of a branch. The resolution procedure has also been completed to a lesser extent. Therefore, the powers of the competent authorities are specified in the implementation of the procedure for the recovery of credit institutions so that the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks can make a decision on the existence of conditions for determining the inaccessibility of deposits and, under such a decision, the Croatian National Bank will be able to reach a solution on the inaccessibility of deposits. You can see that in each segment, when mentioned and another body is always going back to the Croatian National Bank because it is the only one that can act and that can only do something. Consumer protection is increasing. Therefore, general information on services has been improved, a detailed way of publishing general information on bank services is prescribed, and the delivery of information to objecting to services. Free delivery of payment plan which is the most normal thing, but it was convenient to charge. Because if nobody's causing you any trouble and doesn't say you can't do that, why don't you charge for it? The obligation to pay the obligor and all the instruments of the payment of the credit shall be prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to inform the consumer of the payment of the total credit within 15 days of the date of payment of the credit in full and without compensation and in an agreed manner of informing the consumer of the payment of the total loan, informing him of the way in which the obligor is taken. I was with one of our entrepreneurs the other day and he told me that since at this point, all the business banks, in fact the entire financial sector, have a lot of money. And banks fight for clients, they fight for companies that stand well, and they're in the interest of being their commissioner. They offer them, they know there's some kind of credit with a bank, they offer credit to go to them under more favourable conditions. And then you know what this bank that's been doing so far is paying him a handsome fee and it's greasy for early repayment of the loan. Then pay him a lot more indemnity for what he did to him. Well, that's the same thing that needs to be discussed. If we have made a market, if anyone can operate on the market, a financial institution would not come to an entrepreneur who thinks he should be his committee and offer him more favourable conditions to pay off the credit he has with another financial institution and thus enters a better business position. But then this happens, these greasy charges, and then you have what you have. It is prescribed that a credit institution is obliged in the case of a contract for the purchase of payments to a debtor whose credit has been sold, to submit a report on the total balance of debt with the balance on the day of transfer of demand, the structure of the debt according to the following paragraphs, so how much is the principal, how much is the interest, how much are the fees and other costs, that is something that cannot be without. This report on the total balance of debt shall be submitted with notice of the adjustment of the demand. And this is something that's very interesting. And to ask a question and who controls these processes of adjudicating demand and buying demand so it doesn't happen to us and to deliver the citizens to someone tomorrow, literally, and physically and mentally, to make them worse than when they were in the bank. And the main news prescribed by the final bill in relation to the draft law is the conditions for assessing suitability for membership in the administration, the supervisory board, are in line with the guidelines and the assessment of the suitability of members of the managing body and holders of key functions as of 26 September 2017, because what is very important is that when we talk about both administration and supervision, I think it is not exactly whether people sitting in administration and in control are meeting all the criteria. In the event that there is a threat to religious rights in regular liquidation, the CNB may decide to initiate forced liquidation. So again the CNB and you see that in no step, in any move you can do nothing to not mention the CNB, that the CNB can bring, the CNB can do and the CNB should do. Therefore, an article which determines the obligation of credit institutions to inform the consumer of the payment of the total loan has been completed, informs him of the way in which it is taken... the obviouss and all other instruments of collateral for the payment of the credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, colleagues and colleagues, I will unfortunately have to finish with this, although I would have to say a lot because this is a very extensive material, and I think this Credit Institution Act is one step forward, one step forward with all that, so what has often been the subject of these states, but I'm asking a question, the key thing is how much this whole thing is going to be controlled by the regulator because unfortunately the Ministry of Finance can't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68282	Thank you. We have several replicas, the right of a respected representative, Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68283	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Schuker, I am frustrated by the supervision of the CNB over the work of credit institutions, I am terribly frustrated because this surveillance is insufficient, not high enough. The proof of that is exactly what I was already talking about, Governor Vujcic here spoke when he was a vice governor of how the currency clause CHF was bad, harmful, but he did not order the banks to warn debtors that it was. While he's, for example. The Austrian National Bank ordered its banks to warn debtors of any currency clause of 24 risks. So as many as 24 risks were found in Austria if the currency clause is negotiated, and with us the only thing the debtors have been warned about is that they will be paid at a rate that can be higher, which can be smaller. Well, that's the kid from elementary school, that's no warning. So, this surveillance is something that's most important in the work of banks and it's very weak, because of this poor surveillance, just banks and negotiated those unfair contractual provisions on how to change the interest rate by the bank's decision because the CNB was doing its job like that. The Serbian National Bank worked, and I'm sorry to mention the Serbian National Bank. In 2011, as soon as it found out that the banks had negotiated such contractual provisions, it proposed a Law on the Protection of Credit Institutions' Users where it clearly found that such a contractual provision was impaired by law. The Serbian People's Bank is there to propose this to Parliament and Parliament has passed such a law and we should have courted it. And I finally believe that the system should also be supervised by the CNB in the sense that consumer credit agencies should be controlled by the CNB.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68284	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68285	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Alexic, with most of what you said, I agree. And in the end, you, with your last sentence, basically complemented my question when I said it was very much who would oversee the agencies that buy out claims. However, I said some things here and I'm just standing behind them because, tomorrow, if someone didn't call the Secretary of State or the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister, they would have proposed this bill, and we'd all agree that there are a lot of good provisions in there, but they don't have any further instruments to control, but for that I'm telling you, that's why, in law by the Ministry of Finance, this half-year report that we've unfortunately turned into something else, let's just say we'll discuss it a little bit, we'll take notice, and that's it. Another thing, why in Croatia now some things can be done and sometimes they can't? And that's where the truth is, banks used to be gods and beatings. The funds that could be obtained by Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian citizens, the Croatian state were limited, so very small. And they could practically, unfortunately, behave and work like that. Today, when Croatia is a member of the EU, when practically a complete EU financial market is available to Croatian and Croatian citizens, they are no longer alone. The second thing, the financial situation in Croatia has changed, today all banks, all financial institutions have a lot of money, they're fighting for clients today, and that's why things can be set up differently today because let's not put things out of context of time and space, things should always be put quite the same level to compare them. For all the changes and all, it takes a certain time to come and there should be a precondition, but what I'm done with, I'm going to do it again. It is up to us in the Parliament to fight over various reports not for political reasons that these things the minister suggested in this law should be implemented and not be dead letters on paper, and then it will be the right thing to do. But if there's a dead letter on the paper, it's our fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68286	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68287	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I find it interesting that we know all of this theoretically and what you've said and your exposure to me is clear to me and I see that you're behind it so that we should get rid of it. We should theoretically get rid of it, and how can we actually do it to really solve it? 10% of the citizens or 300 thousand in excess, the banks have all known this together, we are EU members of their interest in Europe, as counterpart Alexic said 0% on savings, 2% on housing allocations, with us of 4%, 50% more or 100% on how to help these citizens, how does it affect the CNB bank that we have given authority to, and we cannot manage? I'm not an economist, but I'm a practitioner, so how do we give some authority, and we can't manage it? That's just not clear to me, either. You said earlier that the government, that the ministry couldn't do everything it did, and then why are we here? And what we can do as parliamentary representatives here in the Parliament to protect our citizens, influence the CNB and solve this problem. Well, we have to work practically here, not theoretically just talking like this. I simply and this time that you said it was so that the banks had a chance to make money on us, but I hope that that time passed let them behave as they did in Germany, Austria, Italy anywhere else and so we must all stand behind it and then help the Government and the Minister of Finance and hopefully get rid of it. Why don't you explain to me how to work things out practically?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68288	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68289	My colleague Misic, I didn't discuss here theoretically. I'm here when I... problem then I said how can we solve it here through your discussions. So in the moments when the "Dnevnik" starts in the evening, the governor said, "The governor is that," that's who I don't know what. And then there was the Minister of Finance case and he said it wasn't exactly like that, the Minister of Finance on mud shoe and what he dared to say. It was a fact ten years ago and now you can say it wasn't like that or it was. But that's why when we joined the EU, we put that half-yearly report into the law, we. We asked for it to be adopted in the Parliament, I am telling me, the Government and the Ministry of Finance, but it was said from the European Commission the moment you join the EU that it only takes note. But that report is a moment because the governor is reporting on the financial situation, and the financial situation is if someone is getting some credit and if a bank beats him past some rules so that one of the representatives tells the governor, that's what needs to be controlled because it's happening and that little citizen is going on something that doesn't comply with the law. And when you talk about executions, I'd very much like to publish 320 thousand blocked citizens once and make a structure of who's due for what. And where people are not guilty of their own guilt or losing their jobs, they either got sick, or they got into a situation, and especially when it comes to housing credit, that's where the state has to prove to be a social state. And this rest to see how to do because my colleague Lalovec remembers we're seven, eight years ago the government made a write-off, unfortunately there's a lot of relapsers, but not with the costs of this but with some other expenses. Because it needs to be settled because you don't delay much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68290	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shucker. I responded to the replica precisely because I was very similar to the trace of your thinking when you said that debt that is now being resold on the market, it was as much under surveillance as it was while he was in banks he would be under the supervision of the CNB. Even there, they had to have procedures over the debt, it was known that they were communicating with debtors, there were some deadlines to keep them informed, as they put them in some part, there's some kind of consumer protection law, but the question is, what now that this debt has been sold? Now the question arises and the Consumer Protection Act is whether... it is now goods like any other goods you can trade, and we believe that it must not become goods, and it has become goods as if you went to the store and bought some goods, even have more opportunities to appeal for goods to return as a consumer than these citizens who are now, the debts have been resold to whom they will now more complain, whom they can now more and ways? And I think there's a big gap here right now, so I said it, and you're very good at it in that part, we need to seriously think about what with these citizens right now, and we know they're doing 15 to 20 billion. Who's going to regulate them now, how they're going to keep this up to date, to whom they're going to be reported, will the state have any control at all, will the state even have control over it? Is what I'm telling you, no matter what the government does, debts are growing privately to 42, 43 billion and they're going to go up to 50 billion and then they're going to call the prime minister again what you could have done there. And I'm telling you that it's running under our radar, so I say what you've noticed, let's talk and maybe some changes or some other laws to see and at the CNB, if he has to answer these questions about these debts, about that reselling, if you can sell in any country, but there's not this amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68292	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68293	Thank you very much. I'm glad this debate is going on in concrete matters, no politics. So liberalization, is she always the best? The liberalisation in some society that has long had it they are prepared for it, they are simply over the years as it has acted they have prepared themselves if they have come. And a young country like Croatia unfortunately finds us many things. I'm clean here in a parliamentary debate on behalf of the HDZ Club so no one will patent it tomorrow, and I have no intention of patenting it, he warned me that things could happen. And that's why I did use squirming, because squirming doesn't understand every Croatian citizen, which means it. We simply allowed something, and we did not define who controls and deals with a whole new activity. Let us not forget that in the past 10, 12 years in Croatia a number of financial products have appeared. Remember the leasing, the like, the like, and then the factoring, and eventually there'll probably be a lot more stories about it, and then finally selling those debts. Well, look, the banks simply estimated at a given moment that a certain placement was not worth holding on to, spoiling their balance sheet. They, given the amount of interest in the past period and probably charged a lot of it, and they did in their business assessment that it was smarter to get rid of it, have a clean and good balance because of their business arrangements, to make them better. And they don't care what happens to whoever took the money. They have in a certain way satisfied their appetite. Now the state has to stand there, say who's in charge of these institutions. In fact, what is the formal character of these institutions, are these financial institutions, are they the non-banking sector? If it's banking or non-banking, then we have HANFA and HNB. Well, just once we change the law, we push it away. And what if it's some kind of hybrid institution that's neither, nor the other one. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68294	Thank you very much. We will now move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68295	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'll continue with the amendments. So we have an amendment to Article 141. In Article 308, paragraph 1 is amended as follows: ‘For the duration of the contractual relationship, a credit institution shall not charge the consumer a fee which was not contained in the fee tariff at the time of the conclusion of the contract, nor shall it increase the fees that were known at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement. So my addendum is this, nor can it increase the fees that were known at the time of the conclusion of the loan agreement. Therefore, it is not sufficient to prescribe only that the credit institution must not charge a fee which is not agreed, but should be decidedly stressed that neither this fee which has already been increased because banks do so, the banks increase, do not ask. That's what they do with interest, that's how they do with general conditions. I don't know how they're being negotiated right now, but banks are agreeing on general terms in a way that prescribes that the consumer will accept all changes to the general conditions in the future, which is directly contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations. The Law on Mandatory Relations states that only those general terms which were either agreed or known at the time of the contract of a legal transaction apply to the conclusion of a contractual relationship. And as a rule, banks might do it today, I don't know today, but in the last 15 years, they've negotiated general terms in a way that will also accept the general conditions that change in the future, which is directly contrary to the Mandatory Relations Act. Thus, in the spirit of this Law on Mandatory Relations, which prohibits any change without the will of the other Contracting Party, it would be good to add that no known fees should be increased in the future. The current Law on Credit Institutions therefore states in a positive law that the Croatian National Bank will not resolve individual complaints from consumers and is repeated in the amendments, so in Article 309(7), this is repeated, such a provision, and therefore I propose, on Article 142 of the amendment, that Article 309(7) reads differently. Let us not release the Croatian National Bank from resolving individual objections, but rather write to the Croatian National Bank the following. The Croatian National Bank shall be obliged to resolve the consumer’s objection within 30 days of the date of receipt of the notice referred to in paragraph 6. So let him handle it. If the Croatian National Bank considers that there is nothing to resolve, it will send a reasoned reply to the consumer why it will not resolve the complaint and why the objection is not established. We set them free. Let's not cut them loose, let them do their job. And we finally have the last seventh amendment that I'm not going to read because he's concerned with the violation provisions. Because some of these things I suggested must be added to the code if they were to be accepted. And now, in general, I would like to say something about all these amendments that I have proposed. These amendments will not save anyone, but these amendments will make it very easy for us to facilitate the position of those debtors who are either in a difficult situation due to performance and blockades, due to cancelled loans or in a difficult situation, because the banks today after the 2014 court ruling charge them for illegal increased interest rates which the banks have increased by their unilateral decisions, so they have defined the parameters which they did not comply with or agreed to in the beginning of 2014. I have to do it again. In Croatia and Germany, interest rates on savings are almost identical, but interest rates on loans in Germany are far lower. In Croatia, banks earn from German banks from 100 to 300% more on interest. There's a few reasons. The main reason is that these interest rates are still illegal, so they apply interest margins that are not what they would be if they were agreed at the beginning of the contractual relationship. If interest margins were in those sizes in which they were agreed at the beginning of the contractual relationship, all interest rates in such loans would be lower by one to three percentage points. And they'd be about like interest rates in Germany. Here's a practical example. My neighbor who had CHF credit and converted it now has interest in the Zagreb bank seems to me 4.35% to this new euro loan. She is now in Germany, working as a nurse, asking for an offer from a single bank, she has received an offer of cash credit that can close this loan in Croatia, cash credit, non-intentional, 2% fixed interest rate at 10 years. A Croatian, not even a citizen of the Republic of Germany. How is that possible in Germany, and how is it not possible here? Do you know how it's possible? It is possible that Germany and all of Western Europe understand what a consumer is. The consumer is a little bit of water on his palm. The consumer is holding the whole economy. Where there is a weak consumer, there is a weak economy. Therefore, consumers must be protected. I think even we here in the Croatian Parliament should set up a consumer protection committee. Such a committee exists in the European Parliament, why don't we have a consumer protection committee? I think that would be very good and that could be discussed here all the things that I talk about here sometimes at the sessions, I call for breaks, if there were such a committee then thematic sessions would be organised, then experts would be invited, then they would talk about the work of credit institutions, which still took Croatian consumers today. I argue that credit institutions, in foreign ownership, have carried out and are still going on, the financial occupation of Croatian citizens, the financial occupation of high interest rates, illegal fees and fees that are too high. The entry and exit fees of Croatian banks are illegal. Unfortunately, all those who paid the entry fee five years before they filed a lawsuit won't get the money, because it's five years out of date. But that shouldn't have been allowed. We can already see that there are powerful verdicts, so let's stop it for the future. We can prevent it, there's no reason not to ban banks' behavior in the future. So I completely gave up retroactive laws completely, but through such laws as amendments to the Credit Institutions Act we can push through some changes that will help people in the future, not retroactively, but in the future. So I urge you from the Ministry of Finance to read again what I wrote, to read the reasons to think a little bit, and to eventually accept either all or some of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68296	Thank you very much. We have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68297	Dear fellow Alexic, let us remember the worst period, the most difficult struggle in the Association Frank to protect the citizens, when financial institutions literally trampled on citizens and these debates in the Assembly today, when we see the ex post mind here of those who have been sitting here for 10, 15 years, voting these laws, just like those laws that allow exhaustion, that is, how you say financial occupation, and that's a good expression. I want to ask you, is there to what extent is hypocrisy present in such an action? You said so yourself, and I agree that the Croatian National Bank, it is the monetary authority, who is the authority here? Is the authority of the legislative authority that approves the law of the Croatian National Bank, and it oversees financial institutions, and in this case the credit institution or the monetary authority is also the financial authority of our executive authority? I ask you an unequivocal answer because I see that here everyone here is now the ones who participated in the exploitation of citizens and the economy now relativating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68298	The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68299	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lovrinović, we are the legislative authority, we are the ones who can change it, but we cannot. And why can't we? Because banks determine that the CNB will work, the CNB determines how the Ministry of Finance will work, and the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines that the Croatian Parliament will work. So we are not the legislative authority, but we are one of the most common voting machines. Sociologist Pareto long ago found it and nothing changed after a hundred years. He said back then that parliament, or parliament, was merely a voting machine. And that's true. Sometimes something happens and something changes a little. But unfortunately, it's very rare. And as for the fee of reason, I wouldn't be so hard on my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community, I must say that I didn't know when I was borrowing what I know today, and certainly not when those who participated in the government, if they were economists, if they weren't lawyers who didn't know there was something illegal about bank business. I'm grateful for the CHF loan deal even though it sounds ironic that way. Why? Because thanks to these CHF loans, we've determined what banks are systematically doing illegally. And the banks systematically illegally negotiated a change in interest rate by decision of the bank. If they hadn't negotiated CHF loans, we'd have gone over it like it didn't happen. Sure. And here's the recent ruling of the kuna loan, the euro credit pardon, the OTP bank has to pay 184 thousand kuna overpaid interest plus tight interest, that's from an opportunity of 280 thousand kuna. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68300	I thank my colleague Alexic. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68301	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Alexic, I liked this expression that is essentially true, so Croatia was exposed to monetary occupation. So, what did she really look like? It seemed so that after coming to the government of Racan's government and later Eve Sanader that Croatia was literally exposed to the bombing of loans, that these loans could be obtained in literally 2 minutes whether they were so-called. fast credits in banks, were they consumer loans that you could get by phone call from the cash register. So there were these loans that were offered in Swiss. The government encouraged people to take loans, offer interest subsidies, give some state-owned incentives. People slowed down inexperienced in the action of wild capitalism, they signed, they found that after that interest would rise illegally, the course changed multiplely, which was pre-expected. The government abolished subsidies, abolished tax reliefs, and people just suddenly started paying wars far more than they were originally, and thus came into the problems that we now have, so 330 thousand citizens, 320 per last statistic, have been blocked for almost a decade with a tendency to stay blocked all the way to the end of their lives and that one part of these debts is even transferred to their successors. So it was about intent, it was about so-called. The banking product that people have come up with in the same way as the casino owners have come up with, and it is that the house always gets, and we as parliamentarians as the legislative authority should now say it loudly and clearly and vote some changes, and I fear the same as you not only won't be voted amendments, but that this law itself will not change anything in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68302	Thank you very much, colleagues of Bunjtsu, and please watch your time. Here's your answer, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68303	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, Bunjac, I said so, and I will repeat it in the future. Foreign-owned credit institutions have carried out a financial occupation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And this financial occupation is most evident in the fact that they have negotiated an interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision. It's like I sell you a car for 100 thousand kuna and contract you to return that car to 10 wars per 10,000 kuna, but an additional clause of any war I can trade at my own free will by the seller. Therefore, under the Law on Mandatory Relations, no contractual provision is allowed. And it is fortunate that such a contractual provision, despite the fact that we have signed it unlawfully, unfairly, and therefore harmless. So many times I've heard from people who have no idea about the law, they really have no idea they're total legal ignorants as they say, so who's to blame you for signing yourself. So he says, well, it's my own fault that he signed off on his own. Well, it's not like that. The Law on Mandatory Relations is 2000 years old and it defines what is fair is unfair, which is laughable which is not to be laughed at. There are things that can't be negotiated, and banks that are credit institutions that last almost as long as the oldest job, the oldest job we know is and I think that banking business is about as old as that oldest job. Thus, those institutions that are older than Roman rights violate Roman law with an excuse did not specifically say that this should be done. It did not say specifically, but it said indirectly in the Law on Mandatory Relations that an indeterminate contractual obligation should not be negotiated. And because banks violated the Law on Mandatory Relations, they broke the money, carried out the financial occupation of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68304	I thank my colleague Alexic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68305	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear citizens who follow us. The question is raised, so we are discussing amendments to the Credit Institutions Act as a result of the European Union Directives. I would take advantage here of the opportunity not to repeat what we've heard that needs to be changed and harmonised, that there are some essential questions about the importance and meaning of the credit system, credit institutions. So what's the point of having a credit institution for citizens, businesses? To get credit and to achieve, buy or build something that we don't have money for right now, and when we get through wages or through sales as a company, that money will be returned to the credit institution. That this relationship is fair, that interest is not too high and that citizens are moving forward to raise their standard of living, businesses to develop and thus the economy. So the real purpose of credit institutions is to encourage development. But let us ask the question whether the credit mechanism and the system in Croatia serve to encourage development? We will take into account the data we have and the situation in society, and we will see that this credit system, or banking system, does not encourage development. It was said there at the end of the '90s, in 2000, let's privatize all these state banks that are still out of socialism. As soon as we privatize them, it'll all go better. There will be low interest rates, business efficiency will be improved and everything else. And so there was the fact that 92% of Croatian banks went into foreign hands or privatised. What's the situation today? Today we have as a result that interest rates are too high. They are found in the European Union against those in the European Union. Let me be specific. An entrepreneur in Slovenia can now receive a loan per year for liquidity with 0.2% per year. Three to six percent of us. Gentlemen, it's not even... and anymore. Here's the better version. It's not 15 or 30% more, it's 15 to 30 times more. I repeat, 15 to 30 times more. Let's raise awareness, which means. That means we have a credit system that drinks blood to the economy and citizens. And when a man's leech drinks the blood on the malice, he can't move anymore, he doesn't work. I'm sorry we have to say that. But then the banks sucked money and liquidity out of the real economy from the citizens with too much interest. But on the other hand, it was with the profits of banks in such a falling economy. She didn't mean a significant drop. Even in some years, it increased, and last year it was about six billion kunas. So here's what we've seen in the past few days from the government's office to embellish the reality that we're making progress in all areas, and here's how things are in the credit system. In 2008, credits to banks amounted to € 102 billion, 2016. 92 billion kuna. So 10 billion less. Well, gentlemen, the basic rule is that when loans go down, and then the question is, when the credit system falls, what about the real economy, so what it's growing from. It's said by consumption, but it's dominant because of the solved problem Swiss franc. In 2008, credits to the population amounted to 126 billion kuna, 2016. 117, so 9 billion are down. However, one segment has grown strongly. In 2008, credits to the state were EUR 37 billion, and in 2016, as many as $93 billion. And that's where the banks charged well, so the government's interest on loans is five, six percent, a perfectly safe placement. On the other hand, I'm going to be a little bit of a mess with your data. Credit institutions held at the Croatian National Bank in 2010 amounted to 40 billion kuna and 2016. 56 billion kuna. So there's an increase in the amount of immobilized money. But I want to warn you of one special thing. In 1995 there were 53 banks in Croatia. We now have 26 banks in Croatia. So 27 banks are missing from the market. I would have and I could repeat here the data, but if I don't lose the thread I'm saying it says our credit system is shrinking because the banks are credit institutions that approve credit produce money. High interest rates of tens of billions of kuna have been unwarranted from businesses and citizens especially since 2008. Why since 2008? Because in 2008, an interest rate period near zero occurred, hence the monetary system, the credit system could follow that trend. He didn't, he didn't follow, and we got problems. Now some will say so we are not Austria, Germany, etc. Gentlemen, the loans granted by the domestic credit institution to the domestic enterprise have no risk of the country and it is not true to talk about it and to count it. But what is it about finally explaining why loans are expensive in Croatia? Because loans, foreign exchange loans must be imported by banks from their foreign banks, which are expensively placed here, so these loans must be so expensive for citizens and businesses. But this will shock you all the way. Why does the Croatian National Bank not approve of loans to banks as in all other countries at low interest rates of 0.2, 0.3% so that they can then grant loans to citizens and businesses 0.5%, 1%. So because for 20 years the Croatian National Bank has not approved loans to banks. This is so shocking and so incredible that our people almost have no idea, it's not talked about, it's forbidden topics of Croatian economy and politics. So, above all, the cause is in the Croatian People's Bank, which does not approve of kuna loans to low-cost banks, it could save the Croatian economy. We can see he's cramping with indifference and trouble. I repeat, once again from the market, it's since '95. 27 banks have disappeared to this day. These were banks of small, medium-sized local and regional character banks. In this regard, the question arises as to what was the relationship of the Croatian National Bank towards large banks and these small banks. He was a stepmom towards small and medium banks. They were mostly shot for assessing the Croatian National Bank that they could not collect the loans they had granted. And one school example of this is the city bank in Osijek, which is now in bankruptcy. So, over time, she charged all the loans that were said not to be charged, and the bankruptcy manager sued the governor at the time that he destroyed the bank, so for reasons of arbitrary evaluations, or misjudges. And ate a donkey wolf, no one answers because such a bank was destroyed. In almost the same way other banks were destroyed. However, which was obviously intended to remain the largest and five largest banks today control everything in Croatia around 75% have property, and thus another share in the market. And now small banks are being discriminated against by various regulatory provisions and are becoming increasingly difficult to do business with. In this context, I keep saying and I repeat that monetary reform is necessary with the reform of the judiciary monetary reform cannot survive this economy with such interest, I cannot live, I cannot pay back my debts with such high interest. And all of you who talk here today about something being possible, that something should be done by gentlemen, you've had your chance. You've been involved in running this country, still leading it, and don't be hypocritical. All of this allowed and watched by previous governments. The credit system to conclude, the party Change Croatia considers and will fight for the credit system to be a function of development, production, employment, and not of interest to its own citizens. Instead of the credit system being an instrument of progress, the growth of standards, he produced debtors, blocked and created debt slaves. No law, such a law will help Croatian citizens if monetary authority is wrong and we do not have a credit system that will encourage development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68306	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. We have one replica, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68307	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lovrinović, I must correct your interest rates. So we have loans at low interest rates or we have had HAMAG Bicro micro credit at a fixed interest rate of 0.9%, now you have micro-credit at an interest rate of 0.5 for craft and fixed assets. So there's micro credit for small and micro entrepreneurs with interest rates which is very low, but our problem is that we only have that in micro-credit. Our problem is that we don't have such a low interest rate when we're talking about HABOR loans. So, as long as the HBOR doesn't provide so it won't allow the entrepreneur to get a low interest rate loan, we can't talk about the development of entrepreneurship, so in HBOR we can only now talk about the interest rate of 2.4, 2.5 below, and you mention 0.2, 0.3, 0.5, so you know how far away we are from Slovenia in terms of interest rates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68308	I thank my colleague Ninčević-Lesandric for this replica. Answer, colleague Lovrinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68309	My colleague Lesandric, an example, is picturesque, but these are obviously individual not to say, incidents. What we've got and what you're saying, I'm gonna take the chance to tell the Petrochemy case. Well, look, this company is being destroyed on one side of the credit constitution right now. It charges interest on 6% loans, the current president of the administration said, and with such 6% loans no one can even survive, only traffickers can survive and arms traffickers can. On the other hand, when we talk about Petrokemia, they are charged four times more expensive than in Austria. To get back to the financial system. So we see and it's unequivocally unequivocal that the current credit system that's shaped in banks, it destroys, it drinks the blood of the economy, businesses, it's one of the most important patterns of their collapse. We need to open our eyes. And that's why there won't be a change here, I see it, we've been looking for changes to the CNB Act. I asked again, waiting for a response from the European Central Bank, the opinion actually falls back here and I will not give up, which is why I came into politics among other things, but I see here people who do not want to change the situation, they want to watch as citizens drink blood, as businesses fail, as they are inequitable, look at Ulnik, Đuro Đaković, Vijaduk construction from Osijek, could list, Borovo, etc., etc. On the other hand, it's about the surplus, it's about a different reality, but it doesn't matter to each other, citizens have to be told the truth, there's been a lot of lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68310	I thank Mr. Lovrinović for this answer. Next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68311	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected guests from the ministry. Today we have before us the Credit Institutions Act. A very extensive law, here's at least two kilos, over 300 pages, we'd expect big things from him, but we heard during the debate that some things were unspeakable, fat late, and most importantly not accurate enough. It is mentioned here that this law will end the machinations as in the Raiffeisen Cooperative case, with some delay of 15 years, which sounds terrible, but should we be surprised when we heard yesterday that a construction permit for a bypass on Plitvice Lakes is expected in 2003 and construction is expected in 2025. This is, therefore, obvious in Croatia a practice that we were able to overcome, let's say, even in the Middle Ages, a medieval age when people didn't even know how to write, they reacted faster and solved some things than we do today. What exactly was going on in the Raiffeisen cooperative case? Here's a brief description because it's very important for reasons because there are currently numerous court disputes on this matter. In Austria, the director of a cooperative signed a loan agreement and those loan contracts only he signed, so-called Croatia. For intermediaries to find clients and then for these customers in Croatia, in some cafe, in some room or even on the street to sign a loan and to get cash out of their bags immediately in euro and therefore to pay them that money. In doing so, these mediators, including highly respected lawyers, took a commission of between 30% and 35%. A specific case, for one loan granted by the mediator of 25 000 euros, he took a commission of 8,000 euros and paid the debtor 17 000. Can you imagine how much commission he paid himself in his pocket? And such loans were unequivocal, unequivocally green, and most importantly, they were against the law because the loan had to be signed in a credit institution, so specifically in Austria and not in Croatia in some cafe, and most importantly, all copies of the contract had to be originally signed by the same directors of Raiffeisen cooperatives that originally signed them. However, they were not signed but after being signed in Croatia by clients were photocopied, I repeat photocopyed. And as such photocopies were taken to the public notebooks, they were taken to the garnery, and the worst of all were reported to the Croatian National Bank. So, this story that the Croatian National Bank did not know or was not competent is a complete lie. Even before this law was passed, they knew very well and had the opportunity to resolve the situation, i.e. dialogue. I'd like to point out that for all those who don't know, and many don't know that if only one item of credit illegal the whole loan is illegal, the whole loan is worthless. And in that case, the only thing that can be done, which can happen is that the client returns the amount of the principal he received, as much as he has received, no interest, no expenses, no extra payments. If the state had the courage, if the Croatian National Bank had the brains, they would have simply long ago annulled all these loans issued by the RBA cooperative. And now they wouldn't let some so-called. Skibolin's law now forces those debtors to sue again with RBA cooperatives. So now they have to pay for themselves, take lawyers and wait for years, years with a uncertain outcome whether they get a chance to compensate or not. So I ask you, Mr. Tufekčić, all of you who are in charge, Mr. Bošnjaković, the President of the Supreme Court, governor of the Croatian National Bank, go to the grants, go to the public notaries and see the credit agreements with the RBA cooperatives are photocopyed and not signed in Austria. End of story, they should all be banned. I would like to point out, among other things, that today, RBA cooperatives decidedly claim that contracts were signed in Austria, and of the 10 people who signed contracts with RBA cooperatives of them 4 to 5 had no passport at the time of the issue of the loan. And that's to check, ask the police, ask in the home offices, how could a man without a passport sign a contract in Liebniz, Graz, or don't I know in Vienna? So much for the RBA cooperative. And that's where I answer to the MPs, Mac, who says this law existed before those loans happened. It would happen because I repeat once again they were registered to the Croatian National Bank. I would also like to refer to the claims and new debts that are mentioned in the blocked ones currently amounting to $42 billion. What's important to know? It is important now to know that out of that 42 billion kuna, only 10 billion kuna is the principal. So the principal of that debt is 10 billion kuna, and interest and expenses are 32 billion kuna or more than three times the principal amount. And what's going on with these law enforcement agencies now? It happens that they buy the main debt by 20%, the main debt but at the same time charge interest and court costs. Do you understand that someone who has 2.5 billion kunas in their pocket, and these agencies have them mostly because they are owned by foreign agencies, can buy out the entire debt of blocked Croatian citizens. So someone can buy 42 billion kunas of debt for 2.5 billion kuna. And after that, maltlet the citizens to pay him this total amount and they do it. Why if it is already possible to buy a spirit for 20% of the mains, so let Croatian citizens buy it, offer them under the same conditions to buy 320 thousand Croatian citizens living in a blockade and about a million citizens directly associated with them means members of their families, etc. solve problems. That's where Mr. Tufekčić and your head of Minister Maric and Mr. Plenkovic are going to get GDP growth, that's where your GDP will grow, that's where the grey economy will be contained. Minister Pavic says she has completed a campaign against the gray economy. What are the results of this campaign? Here's some lady in Parliament so let's let her tell us what the results are. Release those citizens, because you have all the tools in your hands, you have all the evidence I've just listed for you a piece of them, now I've explained the model to you. Your GDP will grow 3% to 4%, and your HDZ party's ratings will fly to the sky. But it doesn't even matter to you. All that matters to you is that you actually do well, you few, I believe that many HDZ members have been blocked as well, also by RBA cooperatives, but it is important for you to have this narrow elite of 1,000, 2000 well-placed people calm down. It's not good, you don't see reality, you don't honestly want to help the citizens, but here we are after 15 to 20 years of pressure, after Europe ordered you to do this, then you're passing the law in the Parliament, and as a matter of fact, now we're going to do some improvements after a long time ago, after the citizens have long failed, moved out and lost everything, and now we're not going to do it again in the future. It's like telling a dead man, I'm taking you into account, for a chance like that. Therefore, I would like to say your intentions are not sincere, and if you really want to help the citizens, then start acting immediately now and with concrete solutions, not with the vision of some reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68312	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. We've got another debate. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68313	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Ministry of Finance. In this debate, I will look back on some personal experience and, in any case, the addition, the amendment of this law I support, and it is always good, regardless of what someone said after the law can be even better, and there are always experiences and failures that we haven't thought about at the moment when the previous law was passed. When we talk about responsibility, I'm sure there's a responsibility for the CNB. However, there is the responsibility of more institutions, which is HANFA, which in its Statute you can read among other things, says that they regulate the capital market, investment and other funds, the takeover of stock companies, etc., to monitor the operations of the entities of supervision laid down in the regulations referred to in point 1 of this paragraph, and legal entities engaged in factoring operations unless they are carried out within their registered activities and imposed measures to remove the identified illegalities, irregularities. So this is just one of the items of authority of the agencies that you can read, which has very broad authority. When we talk about blocked and all that's been happening is that there's too many of them. But we also have to say the fact that these blockeds didn't come from yesterday, they came from three, four, and more years ago. Therefore, some finance ministers could still act in a way that would strengthen all their strengths, improve the situation, bring regulation and change these relations. When you look at the available structure of the blocked works of FINA, then you will see that citizens are most obliged to card houses, banks, and then to tele operators. And then you'll see in debt structure that, that interest is a significant part. Now that's where we come up with that big problem. When we say if we're going to free someone from debt, interest or whatever, then we're asking that debtor why he wouldn't pay the principal, so the rest of us paid each and every one of us paid for it and paid for it. If we free them of interest then it's some institutions or banks, credit institutions, Kor business. So that's their profit. Therefore, we must make up for that part of the lost profit compared to other institutions that are not the basic business, and we can even free them from interest even by utility companies and others. When we talk about RBA cooperatives, then we have to say this. Yeah, it's funny how it's always the guilty ones who ask for money, and it's not the guilty ones who didn't think about taking money in some strange institutions, on strange occasions, in cafes and all that. I believe that each of us must be responsible for taking any money and making contracts in any way. That he must also read the provisions of the contract and must know what the result is. It is mentioned that a lady takes out a loan with two percent of the interest, however it is not said what this lady must give as a deposit for the loan. I'm sure that bank doesn't give anything without in return asking for something that we can guarantee for that same loan. Therefore, the procedure is the same. For example, I heard this example in Belgium where they say, look, we can't have a minus on the current account. What would that mean in Croatia if it was abolished? Would there be a big problem with society if it was lifted? I'm sure it is. There, however, you have no ability to have a minus and one who spends, spends only what he has in savings or has earned. In Germany, 2010 I was on an official visit and wanted to buy a certain thing with my credit card. However, they did not receive credit cards in the commercial complex and in that entire city in Germany in 2010. So, what would happen if in Croatia I could raise money on an ATM and come pay, but I couldn't pay in that shopping house with a credit card. What does that mean? That it's the responsibility of the one who uses the card directly, not indirectly through the trading house. What would happen if we applied such a model in Croatia. I think there'd be a lot of stress on the market. When we say banks are inequitable. No. The banks are liquid, it's just a question of who can and who wants to now after all these experiences they have and when the citizens are already quite in debt, can they and do they want to go further into credit relations? Therefore, we must be very aware that the contract is a two-sided job, that the one who gives and the one who receives corresponds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68314	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68315	You mentioned your colleague Peric to HANF. But the fact is that these institutions did not protect the financial system of the Republic of Croatia because this institution that would have to control the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia, Agrokor 10 billion kuna without a currency, the currency without cover was placed on the market and they knew about it, too, and the CNB. It's the blow of that institution that didn't do its job. I've personally filed a criminal report. This isn't a question off topic. Someone has compromised the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia, who is in charge of preserving the stability of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, these creditors, the bankers will benefit from small ones. natural and legal persons, and they only do so on fees. Interests are visible here, but fees that are not fees on these fees and fees from the bank 4 billion kuna per year are taken from our citizens, and there are about 500, 5 hundred fees and commissions. These are very small amounts and there's a problem. So CNB and HANF institutions don't protect financial stability like in Agrokor 10 billion kunas without the bonds. It is a direct blow, it was admitted by Governor Vujčić himself, who is still forced to be governor who is protected as a bear, and is essentially responsible for financial instability and impact on the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia. And of course, at that point, all of this must be paid by citizens not only through interest, but through commissions and fees. I repeat, 4 billion kunas a year have profits outside interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68316	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68317	Well, that's right, buddy Bull. Anyway, I'm not protecting anyone unless he was doing his job. In this case I say it was HANF for sure for that part more than for example. The CNBs which in that part have jurisdiction over the banks which were at that moment exposed to this or that case. But I'm saying no one can be free of responsibility, and that's why it really needs to be taken care of, therefore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68318	Thank you for your response to my colleague, Peric. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68319	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peric, you say the citizens were irresponsible because they were taking loans and you're basically right. There were irresponsible citizens taking loans. But that's why there's a state that was supposed to protect these citizens just like a good parent would protect his children who might also do something reckless. There are regulators. So what is the Croatian National Bank for? What is 630 thousand kuna nets to be paid to the Croatian National Bank's governor annually if he does not regulate the market? The client doesn't need to know anything about how banks operate, nor does he need to know that, say, fraud in Swiss francs was made in Australia 40 years ago. But he needs to know. Mr. Tufekčić must know this and Minister Maric must know it. The Prime Minister needs to know that. He must protect the citizens from such things, he must warn them. That logic of yours, the citizens were irresponsible as if now, let's say, people who got cancer and came to the doctor and he says, so he writes to you on the box that smoking causes cancer. You've got a picture, a photo, and yet you've been smoking. So now what do you want at the state's expense to be treated? Well, you can't think that way. So the simple state has to help. She can't salt the citizens' minds when they come looking for help. So citizens simply need help, and in particular, we who are legislators can help them to prevent all possible malfeasances, etc. The banks certainly didn't go well in this story. They made a lot of money, and that should be taken into account as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68320	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Answer, colleague Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68321	Well, colleague, each of us individually assumes a certain responsibility with his signature. You haven't asked either of you, or I haven't asked the State, the Ministry of Finance individually whether or not we can, whether it's okay or not to sign a certain contract. So we're independent and I guess conscious enough of our responsibilities that we need to know what we're signing when we're stocking our assets. So, in any case, the state is trying to protect each citizen and legal person in every way possible and in any way possible. However, I say, it's a two-sided legal business. It's something that every one of us has to think about the consequences of what he's getting himself into. When you say it's simply the state that has to think about it. So tell me, which state if you think all these 42 billion debts blocked need to be recovered that means we all have to participate in each and every one of us in another's debt, are we, are you ready to do that? I'm not. I return my loans alone with all possible wrong decisions and signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68322	I thank my colleague Peric for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, the closing statement, State Secretary Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68323	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. I thank all of you for really contentious and constructive discussions, and I also thank you for the amendments that we will really consider with due attention. We have also heard here, we have heard your discussions and some other perceived problems that arise in this market where credit institutions are located and which we regulate by this law. Most of these problems are self-aware and aware, and what we can say about them is that we will really look for solutions and answers to them. Here's thank you all again for the debate and I believe in passing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68324	I thank Mr. Secretary of State for this final word. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68325	We are now going to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 176. Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments tabled in this way must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 110 votes, we have decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zeljko Tufekčić and he will explain these four amendments to us. So, I suggest we unify the debate, have the Secretary of State present all four amendments, then report for the debate, if anyone wants to, and of course, we will vote for each amendment in particular. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives, therefore, by amendment No. Article 6(1), Article 6(6), point (a) and (b) of the amended Article Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 575 of the European Parliament and of the Council is replaced by the following: The reasons for the amendment are therefore, that this sentence states that the CNB is the competent authority for credit institutions within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act and Regulation 575 of 2013. In particular, Article 4 of Directive 36 of 2013 provides that a Member State is required to appoint a competent authority which performs its functions and duties as prescribed by the Directive and by the said Regulation. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 11th, paragraph 1. The CNB was designated as the competent authority, however, when the amendment of this article was made, this paragraph was deleted, and therefore also deleted as the competent authority of the CNB as the competent authority for credit institutions. This amendment, therefore, corrects that mistake. Amendment No 2 to Article 110 therefore reads, in Article 110 of the amended Article 206(3), point 1 is amended as well as reads, provides confidential information, which is communicated for the purposes of the Croatian State Attorney's Office, and provides confidential information to the Office for the control of corruption, organised crime and the Ministry of Interior in the criminal proceedings or proceedings preceding it, if it so requests by written order of the State's Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia or by means of a written request by an authorised authority from another Member State. Therefore, this amendment is more detailed in which bodies may be supplied with confidential information, the scope of the delivery of confidential information, which does not relate to the obligation to keep it involved in such a way as to include the provision of confidential information which is communicated for the purposes of the Croatian State Attorney in all proceedings for the protection of the rights of the Republic of Croatia's property, and not only for the purpose of carrying out the criminal proceedings or proceedings that preceded it so far. Furthermore, Amendment No. In Article 139 of the amended Article 205(8), it is also amended to read, the credit institution, is obliged to the consumer at its request, free of charge and at any time during the duration of the loan agreement, to make available a report in the form of a payment plan which includes the calculation of the effective interest rate, on the day of the draw-up of the payment plan, information on the total paid principal, interest and costs, the payment specification and the review of the change in interest rates per loan. Therefore, this proposed amendment is in line with Article 12(2) of the Law on Housing Consumer Credit, which prescribes what all credit institutions are obliged to deliver to the consumer upon request and this amendment is essentially accompanied by amendments number 3 of Mr Alexic's parliamentary representative. We have an amendment number 4, so in Article 146 of the amended Article 360(1), the new point of the 50th is added: ‘if the annual financial report or the annual consolidated financial statements which have been rejected or rejected, or if it does not ensure that the annual financial report or the annual consolidated annual reports which have been rejected or rejected are not publicly published, or if the annual financial report or annual consolidated annual reports which have been rejected or rejected have already been submitted for public publication to the financial agency or to the regulated securities market without delay, it shall not notify the financial agency and regulated securities markets on which it has included securities on the facts that the CNB decision has rejected or rejected its revised annual financial reports or annual consolidated annual reports, or if the same notice is not published on its website, which is against paragraph 7. The amendment also regulates that points 51 to 86 so far become points 52 to 87, so this amendment to the final draft of the law amends Article 350 and adds a new infringement provision as set out in Article 85 of the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68327	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? If I don't close the debate and we're going to vote on all four amendments. So first, I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that, unanimously, 111 votes for the amendment have received support and become an integral part of the law. Let's move on to Amendment 2, please vote. The amendment received most 110 votes for, 5 abstentions and thus became the same component of the law. Let's go to Amendment 3, please vote. I also find that this amendment has received a majority of 103 votes for, 6 abstentions, becoming an integral part of the law. And please vote for Amendment 4. I also find that Amendment 4 also received the required number of votes, 102 for, 4 abstentions and it becomes an integral part of the law. We are now moving to vote on the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and MP Goran Aleksic. Please, Secretary of State, First Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68328	The amendment of the Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68329	And he becomes an integral part of the law. So we move on to the amendments of our colleagues, Alexic, there are seven of them. Let's go in turn, Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68330	Amendment 1 is not accepted. By prescribing the possibility that before a credit institution concludes a credit sale contract with, for example, a legal person specialising in the payment of claims under the same conditions offers the same to the debtor, moral gambling is created. This provision could also encourage debtors who regularly repay their debts to stop paying them off by hoping to write off part of the debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68331	Here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68332	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. You say moral gambling, and the cell that's allowed the believer to sell someone debt based on a consumer loan is actually immoral gambling. So the bank knowingly sells its debt to a cessionaire who then actually earns a debt on tight interest. That debt doesn't come back for years and that cessier who's actually immoral, and it's immoral and the bank that sells him that kind of debt is making money on tight interest. It's very difficult to get to the debt, it's very difficult to get to the main. And if my proposal were accepted, it would mean that those debtors who may be on the verge, who might be able to pay less debts, would allow the bank to offer them this reduced debt and possibly continue to pay off their debt without problems. I therefore request a vote on this amendment which I believe is extremely moral and is in favour of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68333	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're going to Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68334	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed addition in paragraph 5 shall not be accepted because it is a vague provision from which a specific commitment of the credit institution cannot be determined. It is also an unclear provision in practice that is almost impossible to implement and monitor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68335	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68336	I believe that the provision is unclear, it is clear that this is being added to the EU court's verdict that the treaty must warn itself of the economic consequences, it adds to Directive 93/13 where the conditions of lending must be negotiated. So it is not at all unclear that it is quite clear, so I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68337	Please vote on Amendment number two, which the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're going to Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68338	The amendment is not accepted. It is not accepted for reasons because it is essentially the most significant part or almost entirely contained in the proposed amendment already incorporated into Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68339	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68340	I accept the argument because the government has accepted essentially my amendment through one amendment in its own way and it is acceptable and I do not ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68341	Thank you. Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68342	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the agreement of a variable interest rate is governed by the Consumer Credit Act and the new Law on Housing Consumer Credit, and there is no need to regulate it again under the Credit Institutions Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68343	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68344	It's not true that it's arranged. In fact, in early 2014, banks voluntarily defined outside the contractually defined the parameters for changing the interest rate on all loans in which these parameters were not agreed. In this way, the banks did nothing other than by their decision to change the interest rate, and it was the collective court ruling in the case of the franc that was decided and undoubtedly the banks unfairly negotiated a variable interest rate in such a way that it was changed by a decision of the bank and therefore such a contractual provision is irrelevant. And besides, the verdict said, banks are forbidden to behave like that in the future. The banks didn't stop acting like that, and we didn't break that behavior by law. This very proposal would temporarily prevent what banks are applying, prevent them from applying illegally defined interest parameters, parameters that are not agreed. And once again, I don't know which time the proposal to stop the banks from coming. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament have been responsible for the damage to citizens that has been going on for 15 years because they have not prevented banks from acting on their own, and they have the basis to prevent it. They have, on the basis of the Law on Mandatory Relations, which clearly states that the contractual provision, i.e. the act, must be determined. They have the basis for a collective ruling in the case of a franc that says it is unfair and that banks are no longer allowed to behave and have grounds in all EU court decisions to protect consumers. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68345	Let's vote on amendment number four that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68346	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on credit institutions refers to all contractual relations with consumers, not only loans, which also means contractual relations related to current account, brokerage services, investment services and other services. In this way, the amount of compensation would be limited indefinitely and for all types of services provided by credit institutions to consumers regardless of the changes that occur on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68347	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68348	I really don't understand that you don't understand that what's agreed must no longer change in the future without the will of the other Contracting Party. It is only allowed to change what the law determines to change, but only the contractual party, the bank, if something deals with me, it must not change it until it has agreed to change with me. Therefore, it must be decidedly stated because banks throughout history have been doing the following. They negotiated an illegal interest rate, so they changed it by their decision. General conditions have been agreed in a way that we will accept changes to the general conditions in the future, and the Law on Mandatory Relations is clearly prescribed that the time only of those general terms that are agreed or known at the time of the bargaining. We would not do anything contrary to what we already have, but unfortunately because it is not in financial laws such as this law, the Law on Credit Institutions, because such laws do not require banks to regulate the fees they do. They ignore the Law of Mandatory Relations, and if it were written in such a law that they should not do so, then they would not do so. And unfortunately, the Croatian National Bank is always in favour of them. He holds the lottery in all of this and believes that banks work legally thanks above all to the legal profession that works for the Croatian National Bank, and that legal profession has previously worked for banks. So I see no reason not to accept this amendment, because it actually accepts what has been true in Roman law for 2,000 years. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68349	Then let's vote on Amendment 5, which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment Six.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68350	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is not acceptable because consumer complaints are, as a rule, from the jurisdiction of the courts. Since consumers, in most cases, object that banks do not respect the consumer's rights by respecting contracts or impose additional obligations on them. A breach of the contract and of the savings arising from such infringements may be decided by the exclusive court of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68351	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68352	You see how contradictory you are to yourself. First you prescribe in the Consumer Credit Act and the Credit Institutions Act that the Croatian National Bank is responsible for overseeing the work of credit institutions, and when the consumer wants to point out that something is wrong with banks, then you do not allow the Croatian National Bank to act on the basis of its objection. So I really don't understand why you're protecting the Croatian National Bank from doing its job. The Croatian National Bank must oversee the work of banks, and if it did not notice itself that something was wrong, if I noticed it as a consumer, then the Croatian National Bank would have to take certain measures on the basis of my complaint. If my objection is immeasurable, then they will send me in one sentence, Mr. Alexic, your objection is immeasurable and we will not act on it. But if he makes sense, then he should be followed. I don't know why you defend the Croatian National Bank, why you don't let the Croatian National Bank do its job. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68353	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the last seventh amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68354	The amendment is not accepted. Since amendments 4 and 5 are not proposed, there is no need to accept the infringement provisions that apply to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68355	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68356	I agree because I'm logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68357	You're not even asking for a vote, are you? Thank you. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 101 votes for, 8 abstentions and 6 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68358	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law implementing EU Regulation 2015/2365 on transparency of securities financing and re-use transactions, second reading, P.Z. No. 175 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law when discussing this item on the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Finance and the state budget. Is it possible that the motionary's representative would like to give an explanation? Here's State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will seek to be as brief as possible in the presentation of this final proposal for a law implementing Regulation 2365 of 2015 on transparency of securities transactions and re-use. Therefore, it is a Regulation published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 23 December 2015 and entered into force in January 2016 and is directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union without the need to transpose it into national legislation. However, within the Regulation there are also certain areas where discretion is given in Member States and where it requires the application of national legislation. The first reading debate was held in September 2017 and the conclusion was adopted by adopting the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of this Regulation. Three key areas governing this law. Therefore, the authorities responsible for the exercise of supervision shall be designated in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, their division of competence and their partial work and powers. The competent authorities responsible for regulating financial institutions and capital markets in the Republic of Croatia are HANFA and the Croatian National Bank. The mechanisms are then defined to encourage the application of possible or actual infringements of the Regulation and determine infringements for the conduct against the Regulation and the level of fines for certain infringements of legal and natural persons. So, this law has certain bodies in charge of implementing as I have said they are the HANFA and the Croatian National Bank. The Regulation provides for division in the following areas, the first is to ensure compliance with the reporting and protection obligations relating to securities financing transactions. The second is to ensure compliance with the obligations relating to the reuse of financial instruments applied under the collateral contract. In accordance with the above, the division of HANF’s competence concerns the supervision of HANF’s supervisory entities established by the regulation and the laws governing the market, insurance capital, the establishment and management of voluntary pension funds, the establishment and management of pension insurance companies, the establishment and management of open investment funds with a public offering, and the establishment and management of alternative investment funds in the Republic of Croatia. While the supervision of the CNB concerns credit institutions designated by the regulation and laws governing the establishment and operation of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, HANFA and CNB are obliged to establish effective mechanisms for the adoption and investigation of reports of possible or actual infringements of the Regulation and to ensure therefore, further action including the establishment of secure communication channels for such applications. The growth trend of cross-border activities should also be taken into account here, and a mutual exchange of information relevant for the performance of all these tasks should be ensured. Among other things, in situations where infringement or suspicion of infringement may be important for competent authorities in two or more Member States. The protection of workers is prescribed, as I said it enables the reporting of possible infringements or actual infringements, and the law also prescribes the protection of such workers and possible suspicions of possible infringements. It is foreseen that the law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal in relation to the first reading of the amendments to the final proposal for the law may say that it mainly refers to some nomotechnical improvements so that there have been no substantial changes between these two readings. And here is the conclusion, therefore, that this law and regulation will contribute to the harmonisation of the legislative framework at European Union level by introducing a number of uniform obligations for market participants with regard to those aspects of transparency of securities financing transactions and the reuse of collateral between the parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68360	I thank the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance Mr. Tufekčić for this explanation. Is it possible that any of the committee's reporters would like to take their word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68361	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the proposer's representative. So before us is the final draft law implementing the 2015 Regulation. 2365 on transparency of securities financing transactions and re-use. On September 22nd, we reached a conclusion and adopted this bill. The main objective of this Regulation that we are introducing in our law is to introduce a series of legal obligations directly to market participants because it has seen the need to increase transparency in the securities financing markets, thus increasing the transparency of the entire financial system. Member States should ensure the existence of a legislative framework and we do so here, so we allow effective monitoring and surveillance measures to be implemented and we are obliged to appoint the national competent authority responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. So this law therefore determines the supervision, it is carried out by the HANFA and the CNB and determines the amount of fines to violate the individual provisions of this law. What's important is that we don't talk too much about the law itself because we've already had a chance to see it on September 22nd, it's important to point out what these changes are. So here are certain mechanisms through which applications are made, and there are also certain communication channels, and it is a good thing that this article, which determines the infringement provisions, is done to take into account certain circumstances laid down in this Regulation when determining the type and level of administrative sanctions. And what is very important is that, in the publication of criminal sanctions imposed and by an authorised prosecutor at the time, it is important that any other documents submitted in the procedure of regular, legal medicinal products and, of course, the outcomes of the proceedings on legal medicinal products be made public on the websites of an unlawful decision. And it is important that the authorities in charge of implementing this law have a deadline to bring everything under the laws so that this law can be implemented, which is 24 months or a year. The HDZ Club will support this law and we welcome its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68362	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic, for this debate. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68363	Thank you very much. Here's another one about a regulation that controls transparency. But whoever controls transparency, it's like giving someone who robbed the bank, five times has the verdict to guard the bank. All safes open overnight. HANFA and the CNB who are responsible, I said earlier, who are responsible, therefore I have raised criminal charges, HANFA and HNB are responsible for the release of bonds without cover. And you will now control transparency, we're giving them the task of this law that they control transparency and they're the culprits of Mr. Secretary of State, CNB and HANFA, I've named them criminal charges, here's the question of a state attorney, what has he done so far that 10 billion kuna bonds have been in traffic without cover? And now we're giving to whoever's 5 times convicted of robbing a bank, we're letting him control the transparency of transactions in these banks. Well, that's amazing. I don't know if the HDZ club will really support it. Here's Mrs. Peric, she had just supported that thing of mine that those responsible should answer, so indeed we will allow you to control, and you secretaries, these people who brought Croatia before an economic breakdown. They allowed one man to endanger the stability of the Republic of Croatia because 10 million kunas were released into the market without cover. Imagine, this is amazing. We give someone who robbed Croatia to control transparency. And not only that, these people from HANFA and HNB are in the Council for the Financial Stability of System Companies in the Republic of Croatia. And they're responsible. So let's not make fun of ourselves. This is a mockery with all institutions, people responsible for the current economic situation last year, which was a chaos in the state, where laws had to be intervened to stop the collapse of the Croatian economy to pain, simply I still cannot believe that they will be the main controllers. Secretary, did you seriously prepare this law and have these people control the transparency of financial transactions? Have you met perhaps the ones who sent the regulation, who negotiated... required to accept this regulation that people are dealing with in the CNB. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So Vujcic, the current governor admitted that it happened. Sam. I can't believe I control stability. the transparency of these transactions. Here I would ask for a real clarification of the majority and clarification of you, secretary, to explain to the Croatian people that indeed those who have allowed Croatia to be robbed, to endanger financial and monetary stability in the case of Agrokor. Are you really going to let these people from the CNB who allowed the robbery of Croatia, endangered the economic system and the HANFA, I'm not saying this to just say, I filed a criminal report, nine months ago against these people. This is sad, embarrassing. I'd like the former finance ministers to be identified, is this possible, is this really your suggestion, is this to believe, I mean, amazing. Thank you, and I expect you to answer to the people in the final word because this is amazing what can happen in the Republic of Croatia, which calls for European values, for transparency, to give those who are responsible for this situation in Croatia, economic, economic, economic, what banks are pulling money from citizens and investing in others, I think incredibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68364	I thank my colleague Bull for this debate. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68365	Final draft law implementing EU Regulation 2015/2365 on transparency of securities and re-use transactions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 175. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 119 for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law implementing EU Regulation 2015/2365 on transparency of securities financing transactions and re-use.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68366	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the approval of the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty in the Economic and Monetary Union between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Helen Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 261 The act shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Affairs. Is it possible that the motionary's representative would like to give an explanation? Please, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68367	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68368	Sir, just a little bit, Mr. Tufeck. Excuse me. Mr. Bulj, I gave my word to Mr. Secretary of State, Željko Tufekčić. I apologize for not seeing you before if you had your hand up in the air, and none of my associates saw it, so please be patient here until Mr. Secretary of State gives an opening statement. After that, you'll get your word. Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Tufeck. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So well-respected MPs and MPs. We have before you, or you have before you, a proposal for a law confirming the Stability and Co-ordination and Governance Treaty in the Economic and Monetary Union. It is an interstate contract signed by the leaders of the 25 European Union Member States in Brussels in March 2012 all but the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic, which entered into force on 1 January 2013. The Republic of Croatia was not a member of the European Union at the time of the signing and opening of the Agreement. After accession to the European Union, Croatia has started and considered possible ways of joining the said Treaty. Access to Member States of the European Union which are not contracting parties or are not States which are listed in the preamble provided for in Article 15. It's a contract. In accordance with that Article, the Republic of Croatia shall not become a contracting party through the signing of the contract, but accession shall be carried out by means of a procedure to confirm the Treaty and to lay down a document with depositary or the General Secretariat of the Council. What does this Law do? This Law therefore confirms the Treaty on Stability and Co-ordination of Management in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitution became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. With this Treaty, the Member States of the European Union agree to strengthen the economic and monetary union. Furthermore, the Treaty prescribes improvement in the coordination of economic policies at the level of all Member States, with particular emphasis on governance in the euro area, by encouraging the achievement of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion objectives. The Treaty shall apply to Member States within and outside the areas which ratified it. In Chapters 3 and 4, the contract also obliges Member States to strengthen fiscal discipline which includes the application of budgetary rules and rules of borrowing and appropriate corrective mechanisms. It is thus defined that the budgetary position of the general government must be in balance or in surplus and that the structural deficit must not exceed 0,5 % of the gross domestic product. And in the case of significant deviations from the above, the corrective mechanisms proposed by the European Commission are in motion. The Treaty also regulates the coordination of economic policies, in Chapter 4, which obliges the parties to cooperate on the creation of economic policies aimed at further developing the economic and monetary union through strengthening convergence and competitiveness. In view of the fact that it is located outside the euro area, the Republic of Croatia shall assume the obligations under the Treaty in question, which arise from Chapter 5 concerning participation in the meetings of the euro area states where Member States' competitiveness, changes and new rules to be applied to the euro area in the future, as well as specific issues relating to the implementation of the Stability, Coordination and Management Treaty. It is important to take into account the proposals and current talks at Member State level on further deepening of the economic and monetary union. This law is scheduled to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia becomes a contracting party by laying down a depositary accession document as I have said to the Council’s Secretary General who reports it to the other Contracting Parties. Once the Contracting Parties confirm the authenticity of the text of this Treaty in the official language of the state accession which is also the official language of the European institutions, it shall be stored in the archive of depositaries as a authentic text of the contract. Therefore, the adoption of the Law attesting to the Stability, Coordination and Governance Treaty in the Economic and Monetary Union meets the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to this Treaty. By joining the Treaty in question, the Republic of Croatia will take part in meetings of the euro area and will be involved in discussions on the competitiveness of Member States, amendments and new rules to be implemented in the euro area in the future, as well as specific issues relating to the implementation of the Treaty itself. Here, given the character of the contract itself, it is proposed that the debate be held in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68370	I thank you for this explanation of the final bill, State Secretary Mr. Tufekčić. We're moving on, then. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68372	Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. So, in fact, one very interesting item of the agenda and a point of the agenda, which is a great opportunity to highlight the positive macroeconomic indicators and achievements of this government. But also talk about this point. In fact, it is enough to read point 2 of the objective that this law aims to achieve and say. The aim is to achieve its objective by confirming the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management and to assume the obligations arising from its Chapter V relating to the participation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia in meetings at the top of the euro area countries to be held at least twice a year to discuss the competitiveness of the Member States with amendments, new rules and which will apply to the euro area in the future as well as specific issues relating to the implementation of this Treaty. This means it clearly answers that by signing this contract, by ratifying this contract, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, together with the Presidents of the Eurozone, will be able to be at the table, be able to debate and have all the information. And I think we should stop there. However, since we do not admit in Croatia that what is obvious, it should be said that this announcement of Croatia's entry into the euro zone has not fallen from the sky, some things have simply happened. So, a certain macroeconomic indicator, and there are two very important because they are defined by master criteria, and that is the height of the national budget deficit, fortunately and to the joy of all of us, we can practically talk about the surplus of the state budget. And what is the real consequence of all macroeconomic movements in the Republic of Croatia is the reduction of the share of gross domestic, public debt in gross domestic product. These are simply facts, it should be repeated, and the benefits that Croatia will receive by entering the euro zone, we can discuss this at some other time, but exclusively justified, with clear indicators, because the country that has over 80% of the financial contracts that are tied to the euro area, which is highly Eurosed, would certainly be easier to function if it were in the erosion, and the other thing, then we would speak differently about those reserves of the central bank, but this is a topic for something else I would not want to spread this topic. However, anyone who likes to talk about not reading materials would recommend reading this one very convenient reading, written in plain folk language and the one who translated it to him of every honor, and can clearly tell what the objectives of this agreement are, i.e. members who have joined him. And as the Secretary of State said, we did not approach this contract solely for one reason because when it was being brought and signed, we were not a member of the European Union. But I repeat, and I will say, the good macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Croatia are good and responsible fiscal policy has led the Republic of Croatia to seriously think and prepare and ultimately the Ministry of Finance. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank jointly prepared a strategy for the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. But I repeat that this could have been done, it had to be done a lot of hard and painful things, and this is what this government has done. And after all, the figures don't lie, and these are macroeconomic indicators that confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68373	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Shuker, for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68374	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's simply some people, really, fellow parliamentary representatives would be fantastic as heads of the beauty office of reality. I just don't know if we live in the same country. When the refinery of these macro-pointers that count, you simply can't believe it, so when the squires are closed, when the refinery, when the petrochemicals, we have two-thirds of Croatia empty, it looks like all the indicators are excellent. I don't know if that's what we live in the same country. I believe that it can be better in Croatia, I believe that two thirds of Croatia do not have to be empty, I believe that stables and farms must be full of cattle, that we must increase production in the economy, agriculture. But the fact that it isn't. The fact is that macro indicators for Dalmatian workers who cannot exercise their right to bankruptcy certainly mean nothing to them, so the Sisak refinery doesn't mean anything. Now whether the office for the beauty of the "piarovski" in the Government is now a question of all issues but the fact is that we here are passing laws and talking about the euro area, the sovereign euro area, and we do not have the courage to protect our natural resources. Maybe we could have better macroeconomic indicators as an exclusive economic belt. Honor to the Italians but would not allow them to have several billion kuna fish caught in our territorial waters and not to give it to Croatian citizens, the Croatian state, but to sell it to us in the tourist season on our tables. Therefore, we are bound by the Convention signed in 72, and this is binding on us and the European Union gives us a recommendation. However, we mention the euro zone here, indicators, the Croatian National Bank is just such an institution, the Pharaohic though, but in the beauty office it is what it is, it's the HANFA controls everything even the bonds without covering it well controlled. Simply all flowers in the Republic of Croatia. I really don't know if these lights are real when I'm going through Lika, I'm often in it, Straight Kotara, Sibenik hinterland, Dalmatian Zagora, I'm in it all the time, so it's not exactly a real state. Perhaps these lights, for many years, who is in parliament and government, simply act on people and leave the impression that everything is booming in Croatia. And the Brussels manners, mine would say, our colleague Miljan Brkic, "brissels boys", knew how to tell Mr Milanovic that "brissels" are otherwise, these manners are quite popular in the Republic of Croatia and well-accepted since Sanader. But it is a pity that the Parliament has turned into what has been converted, and it is a pity that the people who represent the law to us in front of the executive authority do not want to answer any parliamentary questions. So just before, here's the Secretary of State of Finance, he doesn't want to answer my question, did they give the wolf to guard the sheep? Did they give HANFI and HNB to control transactions, financial transactions? I did not get an answer I should get it, because simply these institutions are the culprits of the current situation in the Republic of Croatia. And this Croatian National Bank can freely download it “Croatia”. I can call her "brissels", I can call her whatever she wants. But it is a lie to represent Croatian interests that is a lie. That's a lie because 10 billion kunas without cover if someone lets the bond it's a disaster. He choked on a Croatian farmer, drove a Croatian man out of Croatia on the young path of Ireland and others. And that is why I call on people, Croatia has a perspective only has to fight. But the parliamentary democracy of the elected parliamentary deputies should be diminished to limit in this office... to speak, to question what our role is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So imagine, you in this office... You designed that parliamentary representative to only give them one replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know how much the state must pay me from Sinj to Zagreb? So by texting, you should send me Prime Minister Plenkovic or you distinguished secretary to answer for you – against. It'll certainly be most of them. It was subsidized neatly, legally in the elections, what gave the vote for the SDP is now with HDZ and vice versa. I mean, it's amazing that parliamentary democracy is suffocating itself, calling for stability, making fun of those chosen by parliament to mock parliament. And the office of beauty of reality, I don't know how you're going to explain it to people. Their fridges are empty. Well, it's not a real picture, so here I think colleague Shucker is not a real picture. I'm sorry. I'd like you to say it so in reality, but it's not. You are originally from Livna, if you go over Sinj, then you will see up villages. A large number of villages have no water supply. The empty houses, the hearth went out. It's not real. 2/3 of Croatia is such, 2/3 of Croatia. It's not a problem. It's not a problem, I repeat, to start farming in the form of buying cattle, cows. Nothing is a problem, but it is a problem who will keep them, and that is why everything is done here in essence to declare that indicators are fantastic all indicators, as we enter the euro zone, we are bigger Europeans, we are bigger "brissels" than those in Brussels. We're bigger Europeans, so we're more than in Europe. We're not in Asia, Africa. As far as I know, Croatia is always on the European continent in Europe. But European Union stakeholders have a major impact on our policy, which has nothing to do with sovereignty, the sovereign concept of preserving this people and fighting for our people both territorially on the Adriatic and on the mainland, we are simply brought into this situation where we are calling for positive indicators. In the ruins of everything, and most crucial are those institutions that had to worry about stability, it's the HANF and the CNB and we give them control. But don't worry, he doesn't want to answer that, our dear secretary. The parliament and parliament are belittled. After all, people have cast their voices. Someone else will be. To me personally, 11,000 Licans, Sibeniks, Zadars, Cetinans, Kaštelans, and they expect me to speak, to question what is wrong with the Castelan greenhouses where they could export the goods to the highest quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68375	Dear fellow Bully, I've released you for almost seven minutes in which you've been speaking completely off the subject and you've strayed from the subject, the agenda point. I would ask you nicely to return to the topic of the agenda in order not to be forced to act on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68376	I'd like to ask Thank you very much. [[/Intruding Brkic: The time will continue for you. As you can see, it was stopped.]] That won't be necessary. Thank you very much. Well, I'd like you to write me a speech next time like you're writing to someone. But you're not gonna make it, Mr. Broom. I'm talking. You could have warned a colleague of Shuker where he was telling the untrues that in Croatia everything blooms and that can be written to you by an office for the beauty of reality. But you can't talk to me, I'm talking about the subject. You should have warned the Secretary of State that it corresponds to the MPs when it comes to the subject. But you don't care. You're subject to the office of beauty of reality. You live in unrealisticity, that's your problem. Lights don't really work in reality. Please, when you're going down to your place, stop by these places, and you'll see through Lika there's no man anywhere, there's no one. People are dying out. It's only a struggle for resources like Plitvice National Park, but not to sell homemade potatoes so we have even better indicators than importing them from Egypt. Yeah, that's true. That's why thousands of people left like that, those are your indicators. And you're not going to write to me personally, you're not going to tell me what I'm going to say, I'm on the subject because I just can't believe they don't want us to be answered by the representatives of the executive government, and I can't believe you're allowing the speech to the office, the head of the beauty office before me who was talking. That was in line with your subject. It means all flowers in the Republic of Croatia to you, and that's not true. I wish what my colleague used to say was true. But it's not true. You can very easily check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68377	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Here I let you all end up saying everything you had. For the sake of everything said, because of the behaviors that deviate from normal rules of conduct, because of your demeaning and your exposition, I give you the basis of article 239 of the notice and I really ask you to stick to the subject in the future and do not, in any way, disturb your order and step away from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. Thank you very much. ... We're moving on to the next debate. [[Intruder Bulj: The speaker does not understand.]] Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's a serious subject on the agenda, so we'll talk about it seriously. People listen to us, they look at us, and so this House needs to come up with arguments and messages that have weight. But everything has to be argued not to be a performance. What is the purpose of this confirmation of this Treaty, meaning the Treaty Act? It's long, so I won't confirm it, that the criteria for economic and monetary union are practically supported, and that means, above all, the master criteria. But gentlemen, apart from a few countries in Luxemourg, Bulgaria, Romania, another worse Baltic country, all other countries have violated all and one master criteria, all and one. Therefore, we can say from the scientific level of the Empire it can be determined that the master criteria have practically become a dead letter on paper. They have been written long ago and have not taken into account at all some important circumstances that will take place during a period of strong financialisation of the economy as a national, such as the European Union's space. So why the question arises why is it that the Croatian government wants to force this Parliament to sign this contract as soon as possible. Why? So because individuals from the government can be painted by offices in Brussels and Frankfurt, because that's where Mrs. Merkel, Mr. Macron, Mr. Juncker sits, if he's not naughty, etc. But he wants to present himself as an important act. Take care here behind this, hiding behind this proposal, that it is signed as soon as possible and that ours return to Frankfurt, or Brussels. Well, because individuals from the government want to be important to themselves, but there's something else behind it that's much more problematic and dangerous. They really want to get the euro into Croatia as soon as possible. I repeat, they want to introduce the euro to Croatia as soon as possible. It is paradoxical that just the weakest EU member states want the euro as soon as possible, and they suffer the most. Do we have any examples? We do. Look at Greece, Portugal, Spain, and one let's say great Italy. Everyone here can say so very responsiblely, because I've been dealing with these problems with international finance, monetary policy my whole life. So they all have big problems. And the European Union, the euro area has enough patients to receive another patient who says in a delirious manner, give the euro as soon as possible to heal. You know, a man who doesn't have a solution for his country, his economy, who doesn't have a sovereign solution, doesn't know how to use still a sovereign monetary policy, then of course he wants to be in a society where he expects someone to solve something, whisper, give him some leverage. Then we see how it ends. Others see that our prime minister wants other important members of the government to be in such a club, so we want to be in the OECD, then Hungarians say, Slovenians ok. But you can't. You'll be able to do that, and that's what our policy looks like. That's what our policy looks like, there's no "s" of sovereignty. And that's what you need to say. So our government also wants to reintroduce the euro as irresponsibly as soon as possible. What else do you say about this? You see the project, this issue of the introduction of the euro is imposed, as is the case with the Croatian National Bank. She specifically stimulated that you see, always the same people hired at the gatherings. And what's behind that? But they want to remove responsibility from themselves, from the failures in the case of the Swiss franc, the Austrian savings-credit cooperative, the Agrokor case, and I must admit that they did very well with our taxpayers' money. How does the Government explain to us that we need to introduce the euro as soon as possible? What's she saying? They say by introducing the euro, there will be no fear of inflation, but they fear inflation by pasting citizens with inflation, they want to replace and replace the security of recession, i.e. economic decline, etc. So gentlemen, let's look at Greece, my dear country and my people. They bathe in a sea of trouble. It's raining down there, it's boiling down there. All options are open in Greece. This country has no salvation in this way. She's gonna have to write off half of all her debts first, then everything, and then she's gonna have to give her something else. So let's avoid dangerous experiments. I can't even imagine what would happen, what would happen when someone in the asylum is looking for it, thinking it would do us good. When will Croatia be able to discuss the euro? I said 10 years from now you should start thinking about it. Everyone else who does that, they just do it for political reasons, not to say political reasons. Let's start running politics in the interests of the Croatian economy and the people once. So, the euro zone is still far from us, and in this context I have to say one difficult qualification, which is that the previous ones and this government are actually protecting the collapse of peoples and states.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68379	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic for this debate. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have completed the scheduled agenda points for today's plenary session. We continue work tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, State Secretary Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić and Mr. Assistant Minister Stipe Zupan for the reasons of these draft laws. Thank you again. Have a nice rest of the day! Thank you. Session interrupted at 18.35 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-25-0.u68380	Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Management in the Economic and Monetary Union between the Kingdom of Belgium and the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Helen Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, the P.Z. No. 261. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 114 votes for and 10 abstentions have been passed by the law. Good morning, honourable MPs and MPs. Tomorrow, January 27th marks the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims. Let me talk to you for a second. On January 27, 1945, a Nazi concentration camp, Auschwitz, was released. Auschwitz, the largest crime and cruelty camp symbolises all other places in which 6 million children, women and men were systematically tortured and murdered during Nazi and fascist regimes just because they were Jews and they belonged to an unwanted group according to the monstrosity of Nazi ideology. 6 million human stories and dreams, including those of various minority groups, have disappeared irrevocably. The International Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust Victims is a day of memory of all the victims of what we can safely call the complete break of humanity. With the male victims of the holocaust, today, tomorrow but also every day we must remember all survivors who bear the burden of one terrible history and their families and loved ones. And the very testimony of the survivors must continue to be passed on to future generations in order not to forget or banalize the suffering of millions of people and their families. The Holocaust must be a constant reminder of the horrors that can cause racism and hatred. Therefore, our responsibility as an individual but also as a society must be to fight intolerance and hatred, anti-Semitism, xenophobia and prejudice of any kind. By doing so, we will honor all the lost lives and survivors whose testimony must never be forgotten. By marking the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust victims, we honor the Jewish people and all others who knew and could overcome one of the darkest chapters of mankind’s history. The experience of the Holocaust has shown us that during this difficult period of European history, there were people who had the strength and courage not to remain indifferent to the injustice done to the Jewish people. At the cost of their own life and for the benefit of another man bravely and listening to their conscience, they saved famous and unknown people. The righteous among the nations, among which there were 115 Croatian people known to be present, have done the most that a man can do for another man, help and save a human life by risking his own. They have thus shown that there is always a choice and that wrong should not be left indifferent. Looking at the descendants of those saved today, we can understand the depth of the meaning of the Talmud word, “He that saves one life saved the whole world. ” Dear MPs and MPs, the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims reminds us of the principles of tolerance and the fight against crime of any kind, as well as the fight against discrimination, racism and anti-Semitism. It reminds us of the importance of promoting the democratic ideal of dignity, equality and respect for every man. The importance of respecting the rights of every man regardless of race, sex, nation, language, faith, or belief. It reminds us that globally all together we must continue to build societies on mutual understanding in trust, tolerance and solidarity in which we will permanently promote the universal principles of human rights democracy in the spirit of dialogue and openness. These are the fundamental values on which the community of democratic states rests. They are also the best guarantee to prevent forever cruelty, genocide, and crime and never to repeat the Holocaust. But also crimes later committed in Croatia and BiH, Vukovar, Skabrnja, Srebrenica and all other places of suffering and pain. I invite you now to honor together all the victims of the Holocaust who must remain forever in the collective consciousness of humanity so that these crimes never happen again. - A moment of silence - May it be their eternal glory.
