ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91530	Now we will start with the first point and as announced, it will be: - Final bill on amendments and addition of the Pension Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I welcome the respected Labour and Pension System Minister Mrko Pavic and I assume he will give an additional explanation. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91531	Dear Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs, I present to you the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Pension Insurance Act. By decision of the Constitutional Court of 30 January 2018, Articles 103, 126 and 129 of paragraph 5 were repealed. The Pension Insurance Act, which ceases to apply on 15 July of this year. Those provisions provide for a procedure for the supervision and control of facts on the basis of which the right is achieved and for the conduct of extraordinary checks on invalidity pensions, physical damages in which a decision on the recognition of those rights has been adopted. The Constitutional Court considered that supervision and control could not be carried out independently of the time of the power of the solution, so there must be a time limit which created legal uncertainty. This final draft law will implement the Constitutional Court decision and bring those provisions in line with the Constitution. It shall continue to allow supervision and control and exceptional checks for the rights applicable before their introduction, but a period of 5 years shall be introduced from the delivery of a decision on the recognition of the rights in which they can be exercised and a new solution shall be adopted. The new solution will annul or abolish the rightful solution depending on the nature of the established illegality or irregularity. The text of the Final Proposal of the Law differs from that in the first reading in a way that the time limit in which supervision and control can be carried out extends from one to five years from the date of delivery of the solution to the party. There have been a lot of proposals regarding the extension of that deadline and we have also appreciated the proposal that Mr. Hrelja has proposed, to extend that deadline and extend it by this final proposal to 5 years. According to all said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act be adopted. What I would now like to refer briefly to both the current pension system and many misinformation that we have in the public on pension reform itself. What the Government is proposing and why we are even going into full pension reform is precisely because we adapt to the dynamics of labour market change, economic opportunities and demographic challenges. The reasons for the need for reform are numerous. The primary average retirement rate in Croatia is 30 years. He's in Germany for 30 years and seven months. In other words, the Germans have worked seven years and eight months longer than we have. Also, only 20% of Croatian pensioners have completed over 40 years of work. And if we watch only their pensions, they have an average of 70% of the average salary. Unfortunately, we are also aware that pensions are small. Overall, watching the entire population accounts for 42% of the average salary. The peace system is sustainable, changes in the labour market and demographic trends affect its long-term sustainability. What is important is to say that the annual deficit of the pension system is 17 billion kunas and 17 billion kunas, respectively, to be collected less than is necessary for the payment of pensions from the first pillar. The deficit will increase with years, it will go to 18, 19.2 billion, and therefore, in the national reform programme, it is precisely one of the objectives of sustainability of public finances. The current state of the number of employees, I would remind you, in the first quarter of this year, we had 71 thousand more employees than a year ago. Thus, the number, the ratio of pensioners and insurance workers, improved to 1.23, but it remains extremely small. What we propose through the pension reform, through the initial proposal, I note that it was an initial proposal, but just to calm the public down. We suggest that we stay longer in the world of work and improve the system of generation solidarity. What we need to understand is that the current pension system can be observed through a three-generation conflict. The current pensioners whose main goal is of course, and we are aware that small pensions are bigger pensions. Those who go into retirement for the next 10-15 years and whose pensions on average are 500 to 600 kuna less than the current pensioners. And it's not their fault. Simple separations in the II pension column are currently only 5%, and they should have been 10% this year. The third category is those young, those who will spend the whole working life in the second pension column and are precisely the ones for which we believe it is necessary and to strengthen the second pillar, but to increase the risk control of pension funds themselves. What the public should certainly be told is that there is absolutely no nationalisation of the second pension pillar. That we're just expanding into an initial proposal the right of that generation that was 52-62 years old. They had that right, I repeat once again to the pensioners, or insurance companies of those years, and in the same way. No one's gonna take anyone's private accounts. According to the initial proposal, the selection of pensioners, future pensioners, is offered. It should also be clarified that on the day of retirement, the relationship of you pensioners then ceases with your pension funds. In Croatia we have 4 compulsory pension funds and on the day of retirement all your funds are transferred to something called a pension insurance company, i.e. the ILO. This ILO takes 5% of the funds to use and this ILO ends up paying you your pension for life. If something happens to you and don't let God pass away before you retire, your heirs can inherit a pension. But on the day you retire, when you've paid money to the ILO, you can't inherit the full amount but only the pension is inherited, and only if you've signed that you want to have a joint pension, and the ILO stimulates you to have a single pension and so that if you die, no one can inherit it. In all, therefore, we want to better regulate this system, part of the reform is just covering and moving towards a pension insurance company, it is not disrupting, we are proposing reinforcements, but what is most important and perhaps to calm our citizens is that this government wants bigger pensions for future pensioners, those who will go to the next 10-15 years in retirement, 300 thousand pensioners in the future will receive less than a minimum pension regardless of this famous 27% add-on. To solve this problem, these smaller pensions of future pensioners cost between 35 and 40 billion kuna, but I repeat, it does not solve 300,000 of our citizens who received between 35 and 75% of the average wage that will continue to have less than a minimum pension. Also, the same persons who had an average or even above average salary on average will have a lower pension of 500-600 kn. So we absolutely know where we want to go, we want to respond to all these challenges, and with all these challenges, the government will come out in the 9th month. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament, once again the Vice-President, to adopt the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision by 15 July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91532	Thank you very much. We have reported everything almost in the hall on your display, except for a few exceptions. Let's start in a row. First one was respected representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91533	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Pavić and his associates, here 15 is fast approaching, but here I must say, I am glad that the ministry in this proposal has adopted a lot of proposals between the first and second readings, primarily this extended deadline, in order for surveillance to be carried out in quality and that there are no mistakes to what the distinguished colleague of Hrelja has suggested. Unfortunately, we know that today's debate in this law is likely to be overrun by a proposal for pension reform, which is currently only in terms. I'm sorry that she got a little too much media attention before there was a concrete conversation both directly in this Visko home and on committees and on other things. And on the other hand, I'm glad that we know that everyone is involved and everyone deserves to know everything about this reform. It is only at the beginning, it is clear to me that both this government and all of us are directly in order to quality the life of our pensioners that even in the future can have the pension they deserve and I hope that this reform will get us, but here, we have more room for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91534	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91535	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would like to thank you for your affirmative response regarding the concrete proposal for this law. For five years, we've considered a reasonable deadline within which control can be made. We are also pleased to have developed a very lively public debate, where we have just made the public aware of all aspects of future full pension reforms, especially those 600,000 citizens born after 1962 by being born after '62. that will have an average of 500-600 kn less pensions. To solve this problem, we need to find 40 billion kunas by 2040, together with all our partners, looking for the best solution, and we absolutely believe that we will send it to the Parliament in the 9th of May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91536	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91537	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you mentioned one piece of information, which really needs special... It's the average pension level for our pensioners who have retired from full-time employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's about 4300 kn. Now, why is that? Where do we have a problem? We have a problem, because the state, during its history, has used the pension system to solve social issues, privatization, defense, so all that's there is to do with paying directly into retirement. I'd like to know, if there was only one information we had to worry about, late '90s, '96, '97. So there was a takeover, people were on disability pensions, it was just from the pension companies, etc. in order to transfer all those disability pensions to the age-added age. I'm wondering if we can even separate how many pensions we have on the basis of, that is, how much they've paid on the internship and insurance, and how many countries there are subsidized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91538	Thank you, the answer of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91539	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're right, the question is, of course, accurate calculations and the goal of extending the training of Croatian insurance companies, i.e. people who work through this whole reform. At present, this internship is only 30 years old. The goal of this whole reform is that it is going towards 40 years. I repeat, persons who spent at 40 years in employment, and then receiving 70% of the average wage, which is 4352 kn. So, what should also be said, in these calculations, there was a lot of discussion about very low pensions, about 500-600 kn. Most 165,000 of these pensions are those who receive foreign pensions and have worked there for several years. Therefore, statistics are needed and their understanding is precisely the key to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91540	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91541	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we have here before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. Anything you said in your presentation, we can put under this title. But most of what you said isn't material, what we have on the benches today. So, about the very reform of the pension system, there's not a word here. Here's a word exclusively about one decision of the Constitutional Court on the control being carried out and unfortunately this is actually what you used this speaker for the PR of your proposal. So that proposal you're communicating in public. However, it remains that these indications, which you suggest about the regularity of the future time, more people believe in Angela Merkel and that a few years of working in Germany will create a better future than all of the government's efforts to measure Plenkovic and you personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91542	The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91543	Thank you, Reverend Panenic, thank you very much for your reply. I think I have made this law very clear. Last week was a similar amendment to that law where there were big, heated discussions about pension reform itself, and that part I said was just to calm the Croatian public down, to know what was going on and in this direction exactly to calm down the ball and to see that the goal of this government is to make pensions and current and future pensioners bigger. In these statements, I think it's only you who encourage people to go to Germany, I don't think that's our goal. The objective of this government is 71,000 more employees in the first quarter of this year, than a year ago, we want our salaries to grow, we have extended collective contracts in the construction and tourism sector, employers invest in wages, tax reform will further relieve employers, therefore, despite everything we have a lot of optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91544	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91545	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. Here, so in this opening statement of yours that lasted 10 minutes, we had a minute that was dedicated to exactly what we're talking about today, which is the law on amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. The other nine minutes you've devoted yourself to promoting something, I think, which you've been going through lately, through the media, which in all other ways is possible, and you're presenting as a pension reform. Is that a pension reform or what it's about, we don't know. We know that you're starting with a considerable amount of intimidation, especially pensioners and those who will become pensioners, and you haven't actually offered any concrete proposal that might be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91546	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91547	Dear MPs, here last week, right from your club was the most shouting I'm not in the House and I'm not explaining pension reform, and there was a whole other law. This time, I came before you, you said I was afraid of you, I'm absolutely not afraid of you, we want to discuss, we want to calm the public down so they know what the initial proposals are. So precisely because of the calls from your club and everyone I came to the Parliament to make absolutely clear the situation because the most of your club was the demands to explain which proposals are currently on the table. I repeat once again that the law's intensity is to ensure greater pensions for the current pensioners, to ensure that we want pensioners who are going to retire for the next 10, 15 years have the same pensions as current pensioners and to strengthen the second pension column for those young people like me who will spend 40 years in II. A retirement stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91548	The next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91549	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, you tried to justify in a PR speech what cannot be justified. So after the '90s. when HDZ destroyed the economy with privatisation, reduced the number of jobs by 400,000, which is why we have so modest pensions today, you are trying to sell one new robbery, a 90 billion-dollar robbery of our pensioners, and at the same time blackmailing Croatian citizens, Croatian pensioners offering them that you will give them an increase of 27% if they give up everything they have saved their entire working life. So it's a shameful proposal and it's clear that neither the coalition partners support you, nor does the prime minister support you anymore. You probably comfort yourself that this reform will see the light of day, but I hope it doesn't. Unfortunately, with a pension reform that will reduce the life span of citizens, we also have a health system that will not ensure that citizens welcome their pension, it is the only thing that can help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91550	The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91551	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, the very goal of this government is to have more employees, I say, we have 71 000 more employees, your government has had over 100,000 more unemployed. What I would also say about nationalisation, if we talk about it, so your former Minister Mrsic made it very clear, 60,000 people forced that from II. The pillars go to I.A. and withdraw 4.2 billion kuna on that occasion. This government is responsible for citizens, we are going into full pension reform, but we are also going into tax reform. We want to relieve our entrepreneurs, but we also want to ensure the sustainability of the pension system. 71,000 more employees than a year ago talk enough about the successes of this government, and the nationalisation of pensions that you have made, that is, your minister and the blows that you have made speak well enough about your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91552	The next replica of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91553	So Minister, you're cheating on the public, pensioners. Your reform is about like this: Go back to column I, you'll get 27% increase, but everything you've saved so far you'll give to the state. And that way, the state will be incometing 90, maybe 100 billion kuna. So 16 years after the full reform, when II was introduced. The pillar, which was reform, introduction II. The pillar, you, under reform, are offering us the actual annulment of this reform. Now you're thinking of hoarding all that II money. stand down, put the state in the pocket and the pensioners only with that condition to increase the pension by 27%. Reform would be something else, but it's a promotion of what was started 16 years ago, strengthening II. The pillar, to give safety to the pensioners, that would be reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91554	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91555	Thank you very much, Mr. Stazic. The reform is to make the system of public finances sustainable, while developing the pension system at the same time, that people who will have 500 kuna less pensions that are not even to blame, find ways not to have 500 kuna less pension. The cost of that is 40 billion kuna. It's precisely the proposal that we have pointed out that we find ways to finance this whole system but I repeat the technical expansion of the rights of people who had a generation of '52. Until '61. Our cashiers, our teachers who will go into temporary retirement next year don't care about these things, they want to know if they'll have the same pensions as someone who was born in '61. a year. Therefore, we need to find a solution for them in a way to increase, equalise future pensioners with the present and maximise pensions but with the sustainability of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91556	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91557	Dear Ministers, here's what my colleague Panenic said. You gave a speech here that doesn't concern the agenda at all. It is clear that you must calm down the tensions that you yourself have created either by irresponsible statements or by the fact that you do not know at all either you or the Government at this time what needs to be done. I watched last night's Open and there were scandalous statements, you're personally as a minister and there was another colleague from one opposition party counting GDP as a direct revenue budget. So I was worried about what you were doing on that show last night, and that shows me that you don't even know which way to go and what to do. And when you talk about the number of employees, are you aware of the situation in Croatia? Are you aware of how many young people leave Croatia and you're talking about some fantastic government results? Well, most of these employees are probably employed either in towns or in municipalities or in state-owned companies, in ministries. So you're just burdening this system, it's becoming unsustainable. Take public administration reform, Minister, say so, tell Prime Minister Plenkovic that this can't go on like this anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91558	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91559	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we're just going the opposite, you may not have understood me, but the models we've calculated and we've made absolutely every possible model and addition to retirement. What we are fighting in this government is that 300 thousand of our pensioners who received minimum wage up to 85% of the average will have no less than a minimum pension. That's the thing, Mr. Grmoya, that we, the challenge we've been up against, that no government in the last 16 years has ever wanted to catch, that was just switching, that was just switching... the problem of the next government. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Do not throw it out of the bench.]] For the first time, this government has dealt with it. And in a way that we're going in that direction, and the law itself, I've reported and made a proposal to the government. [[Don't come from the bench.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91560	Thank you. You've brought up a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what's hurt, what's the article and what's the item? So Minister Pavic deceives Croatian public Article 238, deceives the Croatian public, accuses [[Intruder Reiner: Which article is injured, please say!]] Former government. [[Intruder Reiner: This has nothing to do with it.]] Whose governments are these? These are HDZ or SDP governments. What are these governments? [[Intruder Reiner: No, you abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I therefore give you a warning!]] And who's responsible for this unsustainable system and pension and everything? Who's responsible? Well, you're responsible and the government means HDZ. [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Grmo!]] Stop talking I told you a warning! I give you a second warning and take away your word. [[Brubber: So don't deceive the public anymore, so you can't do this, you can't listen to this!]] The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, apparently some of them got up this morning with a dream that they were still ministers or that they were in your position to teach you lessons. Amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act are certainly an integral part of the pension reform although it is a small partial part. But what I would like to say is, therefore, about art and creation, is that possible with sublegal acts, the objectification of witches who do these art. Namely, the ministry has brought positive changes to the single body of skills for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. And I think also those experts who are the best within the system to then engage them specifically with Articles 103 and 126. Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91563	Thank you. Minister Pavic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91564	Thank you very much, Mr. Agent Cellic. The system of art, professional art has been improved by a law that was in the 5th month of the Law on Professional Art and also promoted by a regulation. We've got a central place for all the art. The Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. It is exactly the place we want to strengthen and we are also especially strengthening professional rehabilitation. Therefore, one institution that was created in 2015 by this law, by improving the law, we have strengthened what you are saying, and in this way we want to improve the system of art. And I am particularly pleased that we will improve the system of professional rehabilitation and the funds that are being collected... quota employment is invested in development of centres in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91565	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, what needs to be repeated every time because if you don't repeat yourself 100 times, forget yourself in a moment. So this is only part of the reform efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that are being taken, I will remind the reform of the tax system. Last week here in the Croatian Parliament we had a reform of the judicial system, a reform of public administration, a health system is under way. So, and the pension reform we can say is a reform of all reforms. What is important to remind and what the government is aware of is that the average pension rate in the average salary in Croatia is below 42% and in the EU it is 58%. What is the government's intention and what we all have to do together is to increase the standard of our pensioners and what's more important is to increase control over those who manage the pensioners' funds, or the funds that they allocate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91567	The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91568	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Glavak you are absolutely right, pension reform is being added to all other reforms, especially tax reform, to discharge. I would like to remind you that for 3 billion kuna we have charged entrepreneurs and citizens and that we will do so in the coming years and you are absolutely right, in part of the reform will certainly be on better control and manage the risks of mandatory pension funds that currently have accumulated 94 billion kunas. We are looking for a way to use these funds to develop infrastructure projects and Croatian economies, but we are also looking for all risks and we are aware of the issues and losses on shares and Agrokor and many other projects to strengthen the system of supervision, control and risk. We will also go to a reduction in compensation of 433 million kunas of income, 206 million kunas of earnings therefore, we believe that we have very much room to improve the system of supervision and management of pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91569	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91570	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, before you started on the signs or outlines of the new reform, I think you missed one big thing and you should have said that in 2014, the Pension Insurance Act was amended and that two very important things happened. If I'm not mistaken, the first one was to change the model or way of calculating the basics to retire, for those in I. and II. The pillar would generally give an answer to all those who say they have or have no right to 27%. Let them look at what happened in the 2014 law and they'll all be clear. So that's it. The second thing, then, is by amending the law of II. It's a pension-taken billion and 600 million kuna. And they're just facts. And the other thing, not because I was part of one government, don't say that nobody did anything, look at the amount of money that's been raised to pay off pensions and don't forget Mr. Minister, that there's been a debt paid back to the pensioners, and that's exactly during the HDZ government, so please don't say that no government has done anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91571	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91572	Thank you very much. I didn't think any government had done anything, but I was talking about Development II. The pillar, of course, has been paid back to the retired. Thank you for reminding me of this, one part I did and I told the SDP government's decision to return 60,000 people to column I, and it cost a lot more than you claim, 4.3 billion kuna was a total return to column I. At the same time, the minister of the then Mrsic introduced so-called. Swiss formula in II. The pillar thus disabled a good part of the funds in the risk payout issue and therefore the share of pensions from II. It's getting a lot less. The third component that the government has made and the disaster is that the people with the benefits of the internship have also been forced to go to II. The column and we currently have in 2017. 17 people, this year several hundred people have retired with an underprivileged internship and do not have enough pension from II. They're asking for an addendum. This government will make full reforms and all these challenges... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91573	Thank you. The next replica was supposed to be a respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic, and he's not there and he's losing his right to speak. And now I'd like to ask if the committee reporter would take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91574	Dear Minister. Here before you go, I would only answer your remarks about me inviting people to go to Germany. If you take a closer look at my family, then you'll see that the whole family just came from Germany and who drove her away? She was driven away at that time by the indifference in which they lived, the inability to achieve appropriate income, to manage normal life, was sought a solution, unfortunately and then in Germany. Now what's happening very much reminds us of that time only has another more indicative problem, and that's that no one plans to come back anymore. We're back, who's planning on coming back? What government will make such a reform that our people who have left want to return? What government thinks that the pension reform and with the minister who is here will hold a state speech here for half an hour and then leave, how will that change? What we should say now, here's the minister thank you very much for being with us, we really heard and you've heard all of this debate, which is important. In the end, we can actually say that the debate about retirement is the debate about our future. And when we look at how people experience their future, unfortunately the fact is that they don't think about the future in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that despite all these discussions we have here, there is no hope that the future will be in Croatia's pension. When you tell someone that a maximum of 500 kuna is being debated here, which means someone who has a payout, the average pension, which is threatened, so look at the support that local self-governments are providing that are designing measures to help their residents. Well, we had a show yesterday, where the city of Zagreb is, says it's the most conscious city. The city that helps its pensioners the most. So it turns out that the support of a local self-government is crucial, important, important to the Croatian pensioner. In a small environment, we come up with indicators that the pensioner already has the same as everyone else. Now imagine if there are 1,000 residents somewhere, 500 of them are pensioners and local self-government should bring a measure to help pensioners. Just to give them 100 kunas, 500 times 100 kunas, 50,000 kunas, and 100 kunas evaporate, disappear, it's just a sign of little, tiny attention for Christmas, New Year's Eve or Easter. If we raise to 500 kuna, how much is being debated here, then we're already coming up with some amounts that are growing. But how long? How far can local self-government stretch? How much will the funds be decentralised? There's my colleague, Pranic, who's the mayor, he's trying, everything. How many mayors can you separate the total funds to help this particular most vulnerable group? You'd give anything you could have. But it's the state that's designing a pension model that's doing a reform behind these statements that's behind the future. Of course, we're afraid that in this future that's being announced, you're required to give up one piece of your savings, hand over to the state to manage your money. But here, I apologize to all of you, I apologize to the public who is watching what I'm saying about a subject that is not the content of this law that we now have. So, I've called the minister, I'm calling myself a minister for that, too. Because it comes before us the Law on Amendments to the Law, in fact, on amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, in which there is no mention of pensions, pension reform. It's about control. And that's the point. Control of the entire system, of the correctness of all institutions operating the system. But when we look at that we are making a special amendment to the law because the Constitutional Court has ordered something, because of the fact that there is an irregularity, then it is justifiable that every Croatian citizen is concerned about giving funds to the government. Unfortunately, if the practice were positive, if the state were behind Croatian citizens, then those funds would probably all, in fact, come, which will be discussed, would certainly be accepted by Croatian citizens, they would feel safe, they would feel safer within the state government, rather than perhaps within a pension fund that should provide them with greater income. Now the minister actually says that he also confirms, don't trust the pension funds. The peace funds can't provide you with the future, they can't secure your pension, they can't capitalize the savings you have. So let's ask why? Because 70% of their investment is in government bonds. So it is the state that cannot through its bonds ensure that Croatian citizens make a contribution to their pension. They are on the safe side, the only thing that confirms is that the state will settle its obligations, but that's why pensions will suffer. Okay. So let's take it, let's cancel the payments in the second pillar, get rid of these pension funds, and then we'll probably collapse all the companies that have recapitalised the pension funds, which they're in because that capital is going to spill over into the state, the state that couldn't control the state of management of its businesses, which isn't on time, that let the crime work there, which allowed the robbery of those companies, which allowed them to collapse, so that we'll actually put them on their feet again countless times. And pension funds are the best leverage under the government's watchdog to participate in these very processes. But again, the theme is to solve thousands of false pensions that do harm. The data is that 5100 false pensions in the last 14 years have caused damage of 4.2 billion kuna. Is it only those who have received such pensions to blame or is it part of the system? Which is actually a system that only 15% of people go into retirement, everything else is in some pension that's not fully earned. And then, of course, here it stabs us in the eye that there are thousands of examples of false pensions discovered. How many undiscovered are there? So who we became a nation in which thousands of pensions can happen to change the law to share this information, to discuss it. I think it should be in itself to get rid of it and it can't even happen. And if there was a quick sanctioning, clear sanctioning. It's a clear procedure. Because the question is, why do we need the Constitutional Court's decision? How does it come to be questioned actually by the Pension Insurance Office? Is everything right there? Or yet they will be raised and, who knows how many, reports against people who have made such decisions, who, with a high degree of carelessness or with any degree of intent, have allowed such a situation to occur. This decision of the Constitutional Court will not allow either abolishing false pensions or saving false users, but only encourages institutions to start working, to implement decisions, and the Institute, it will have the duty to present evidence of obtaining a false pension, to initiate proceedings and, of course, what everyone expects, to return funds, to prosecute responsible persons. But let us not forget, it must not be legitimate for responsible persons in any institution, as well as for the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, who have made certain decisions, where these decisions have been comprehensible where they have been proven that they have not been able to be accepted and they have to answer. It can't always be that it's just a responsibility to whoever the user is. He may have used the system, but this system, until he finds within himself, is the same as those responsible, until he punishes himself, until the interests of Croatian citizens, Croatian pensioners, Croatian warriors who separate the funds, as we expect the state to clear themselves, as we expect the state to be an example. That the state will pay its bills neatly, that as well as this morning's stop where I was saying, it can't be the state that owes the pension system, the state or the HZZO, as a fund, where there's a dedicated income, it can't happen that we have almost 3 years of unpaid debt. So to whom we sell more stories to pay for something in 30 days. Well, we don't trust ourselves, not that we're going to sanction, force or explain how good it is, we're going first. And we need first of all from this budget, where the surplus came from, the surplus came from, so people we have surpluses in the state budget, and we have what? Debts, multi-annual liabilities, which occur somewhere where you can't see directly in the state budget. We have a blur on the Croatian public. And the law states, they're obligations, so they're all Croatian citizens. So we can't play with a ball, he gave it a column, 2 pillar 3 volunteers who, of course, believe in the state, should believe, believe in the system, believe in what the state has listed and wants, they want it to provide them with a future, that at the end of their working life, they will be able to believe that they got a pension due to their work, that whoever's real disabled has also got a pension for the fact that it happened to him and that they don't have to listen to either this debate or there are witnesses to a single example of abuse of a system that is not willing to change themselves, which is not sanctioning themselves, to be better, more effective, towards those who encourage it in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91575	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubica Lukacic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. As the Minister mentioned in his water presentation this Pension Insurance Act, we are changing for a reason, as the Constitutional Court abolished the provisions of Articles 103, 126 and 125 in the Constitutional Court on 30 January 2018. Article 129(5) These provisions prescribed the control and control procedure of facts on the basis of which the pension insurance scheme had obtained the right to carry out extraordinary checks on invalidity pensions and the body of damages. The supervision and control could be carried out independently of the expiry of the time limit of the decision, therefore, without a time limit, which created certain legal uncertainty for the users of those rights. The Constitutional Court has declared these provisions unconstitutional and, as I said, we therefore have amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act. So, on the final proposal of this law, which we will implement the Constitutional Court's decision and bring those provisions in line with the Constitution. Furthermore, this law provides for supervision and control, as well as exceptional controls, for the rights which were in force before their introduction, but is introduced in contrast to the first reading, a deadline of 5 years is introduced from the delivery of a right to be recognised in which these checks can be carried out and a new solution is adopted. So the text of the final bill that we have before us today differs from the draft law within that time limit, the period of 1 year extends to a period of 5 years, and that is one significant difference compared to the first reading. When we talk about review control, I am convinced that this deadline will be to create one legal certainty among citizens, because unfortunately you had a situation today, here, which I can say personally, I know. That some rights were really supposed to be controlled, and some, I'm afraid they weren't. Because when, for example, you. The person who has a quadri legion goes into disability pension, so they say she'll be ready, she'll be invited to a checkup, and she doesn't know when, then that person, where there shouldn't even be a control checkup, because she certainly, I'd say, it's hard for me to say, but I'd say she'd never get better with that kind of diagnosis, so at all, the question is whether these checks were necessary. I am therefore particularly pleased that the minister, in his opening presentation, noted how we will strengthen, or better regulate the system of professional rehabilitation in order to train as many people as possible to enter the world of work, so that they do not needlessly put unnecessary burdens on the pension insurance system. These amendments and amendments to the law also introduce a deadline within which a review of the findings and opinions adopted in an extraordinary review shall be carried out, which shall be no later than 60 days before the expiry of the deadline for the adoption of a solution in the supervisory and control procedure. In his opening statement, the minister briefly referred to the pension reform, I will say, perhaps only two, three sentences related to this law, and these certainly refer to pension reform. As I mentioned, this is the system of art, which I would say is a bit of talk, which is the most important link in pension reform. We introduced the new system of art into the Republic of 2015, I would say that he was then revived, but he did not get good results. So here's the secretary of state I can say that I'm particularly pleased that this government and what you've really done in the ministry, I'd say a miracle, when you brought the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities to a higher level. When you say the full name of this Institute, then everyone thinks it applies only to people with disabilities, that's not so, it applies to every man who needs some skill in any system, as well as to the pension insurance system. We all know very well that witches used to be skilled, I dare say anyway, so the physical damages relatively mild physical damage rarely ended with a disability pension. And today, when a person comes to you in a wheelchair, and today it happens that witches wonder when such people say that they would not go into disability pension, but that they would professionally rehabilitate and continue to work. So I think it's a good time when we talk about pension reform, and a series of laws, and so this Pension Insurance Act will be re-changed, that it's time for us to increase the compensation for professional rehabilitation, that is, it's not a reason that people don't want to go to professional rehabilitation because of that fee they can't live on. The second question that I think is very important here, which is that perhaps it is time for us to reconsider in this pension reform the four-hour working time, because people with remaining work capacity do not necessarily need to be fully on the burden of the pension system. Why in 4 hours for which they were able to work could not earn their salary and for their lives and were in the world of work and felt functional, felt to benefit themselves, their family, and their country, and for those remaining 4 hours for which they could not work some use a disability pension. Please consider these suggestions of mine, I'm sure you'll do it and we'll really do this pension reform right to the satisfaction of all citizens. As for the amendment and addition of this law to the final proposal of the Pension Insurance Act, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91577	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HNS on behalf of which will speak the respected representative of Christmas Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's simply impossible to discuss the law on amendments and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, and we don't all have an association to pensions right now, to pension reform. However, I will not discuss pension reform, because I sincerely hope that through this summer, we will get all the information, hear all the analyses and discuss how we can start by adopting this reform in the autumn. I will look back on what this law changes, not many things change, but it is necessary to change them, because according to current, applicable law, the provisions of Art. 126. The Pension Insurance Act is prescribed to carry out extraordinary checks to verify whether beneficiaries of pension rights are established on the basis of... and the working abilities of either partial or total loss of workability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether they acquired this in a legitimate way, i.e. whether artificial findings, were drawn up in accordance with the regulations governing the acquisition of pension insurance rights at the time those rights were recognised. We have this situation that such a finding and opinion has been adopted in the process of supervision and control prior to the adoption of the solution, regardless of the assessment adopted, is subject to the audit of the Ministry of Pensions, however, there was no time limit within which this should be done. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has decided that a deadline for this change must be made. The Constitutional Court's decision, we can't question, we need to act on it. That is exactly how these amendments to the law are proposed, a deadline within which these extraordinary checks can be carried out for disability pensions and physical damages. So far they have been able to exercise themselves without that restriction, which in some ways created legal certainty for users of these rights. However, to anyone who has been found incompetence and who has been granted a powerful solution, and not a false invalid, it is really about the person who is no longer able to perform the obligations of a working person who cannot work, they have not, probably so far, except in exceptional cases, as counterpart Lukacic also said, had with these problems. Unfortunately, the situation is that these people, as a rule, have worse and worse findings, and they feel worse, not that they improve what we all want. And so, in every control, they would actually be there for their solution would be correct, or they could only be even worsened by the degree of disability. But, as the Constitutional Court has ordered, that a deadline must be imposed, we consider it a good solution, that in relation to the first reading, when we had a period of one year, the proposal now increased to be 5 years. Is five years just that solution whether it should have been 6, 7, 8 because I've already talked about this situation so that for some it doesn't change anything. And for those of you who've gotten all kinds of jokes or I won't say resourcefulness, because that's not resourceful, if you're doing something to harm others, and actually just the ones who've gone into disability pensions, and they could still work, they've been doing damage to other insurance companies because they've had to pay their pensions, too, and they haven't been paying into the pension fund anymore. But this is still a solution, which is much better compared to first reading. It also introduces a deadline within which an audit must be carried out, including opinions, which is now 60 days, and we consider it a good solution because the deadline must not be defined. And that's why the HNS will support these amendments and the amendments to the law, and I'm saying about pension reform, we're going to discuss the moment when we're going to have the data and when it's going to be right here in front of us in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91579	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91580	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I hear from my colleague Lukacic here that the Constitutional Court's decision is here because of some legal uncertainty. Let's go, let's remember you colleagues and colleagues, has anyone lost a disability pension in the past 27 years for a review? Come on, we're hanging out with somebody, did somebody lose? What legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty began when Minister Mrsic asked HZMO employees, a number of them having physical damage go to extraordinary controls. That's when some legal uncertainty started. Well, the legal uncertainty wasn't even when they found a respected Dr. R who ended up in custody, where people who use disability pensions today were penitent, they didn't lose their pensions, and he shouldn't do that job. So, which legal uncertainty, as the motive of the Constitutional Court, we're talking about. Of course, colleagues Macar, we have no right to object to the Constitutional Court's decision, which does not mean that we agree with it. I adhere to those two constitutional judges who had a separate opinion that the criminal act that took place by falsifying documents would never become obsolete, but I must as a legalist, as a representative of the Croatian Parliament, respect the Constitutional Court's decision and we have nothing else to do and we must vote on Friday to take effect within the deadline prescribed by the Constitutional Court, agreed, disagreed with the Constitutional Court's decision. It should also be said that here the birth pains of a single body of art are mentioned, and it is quite consistent and is now being glorified by this government that it wants a good success to be very effective in solving, among other things in the revision of disability pensions. I remember when this Minister Mrsic was again, I'm not his lawyer, but when he opened that story about the unique body of art, those trees and stones and when the World Bank loan was taken to do so there were trees and stones on it. It just means we don't have any continuity, we think it all starts with us which isn't good. So much for introducing this law because there's nothing to talk about. So what was written was correctly written, to commend the ministry's representatives that they responded to my discussion here that the deadline of one year was too short and resolved by the proposal that the deadline for reviewing disability pension is 5 years. I commend them for that, but I stay at my place, and that's my right, and I stay at my place to propose the amendment for 10 years. The 10-year argument is half of our experience, the average experience of our Croatian pensioners because they have an average of about 20 years of retirement, let's not hunt in decimals now. So I'm going to stay here because I think it says in this amendment that five years should be replaced by the words of 10 years. Just so you know, because of the tipfeler, at least you're going to have to honor this amendment in part, because it's going to be a year, not a year. But regardless, I will certainly ask for a vote on this, it has no impact however you decide, I will support the adoption of this law as a legalist, but I will fight for my position in the Croatian Parliament. In an explanation I wrote, we signed the amendment of my colleague, Peja Grbin and I, we believe that the proposed deadline of 5 years is too short to afford untouchableness and peaceful sleep to parasites, thieves and mules who are involved in the faked medical findings. So it's just them, not others, just con men, thieves, parasites taking other people's. And I will set up this Croatian Parliament, I will tempt it to see if it will be a favor to those who cheat or stand up for something even more normal than the proposed 5 years, which is that the revision can be carried out in 10 years. The Constitutional Court has not bound us to five, not one, not seven years. As you wish, you will decide. We believe that the 10-year term, as I said, is appropriate and to be honest, after 10 years it is very difficult to prove the situations that were when the health condition was established, or the disability of a particular person. Just so you know, some proven such people are running for this high house today. I don't know if they'd represent pensioners or fake pensioners here. And on several occasions they were in the candidacy, look at you, the Evening List wrote about it on the list with colleague Ljuba Jurčić, etc. So what I'm talking about is not a harmless story, and we have to show our determination to, to tell the parasites, the thieves and the crooks, or to be indifferent to them. As far as the law goes, good for you. As far as the reaction is concerned, as part of the possibility, I think you've reacted well, and there's no dispute here. We will vote for this law under the Constitutional Court's decision and with a deadline defined as GLAS and HSU's club. I didn't mean to, and I wouldn't have talked about this any longer, but I had one piece of the reply to the replicas given by the minister of labor, Mr. Pavic. You know, saying that Croatian pensioners have an average of 30 years of internships is a great insult to me for Croatian pensioners. This information carries only one small error of 350,000 data. Just one small error of 350,000 data. And it is very offensive for Croatian pensioners to have few internships. If you're going to analyze, then a little internship only has disability pensions, only disability pensions. The average retirement age is 53 years, the average age is 60 years. Why am I talking? Don't you find it strange that there are 33 years of training in these statistics, and early retirement is almost 36 years of internship, where it is caught? What's the problem? The problem is that all users of proportionate pensions by international regulations go into retirement, they all go to old age, they don't go to early retirement. All go into retirement and this system enters, 10, 15, 20, 17 years of internship. And when we add it all together, our old-age pensions are in the value system, so four years less than the premature age of 35, men 38, women 33 and 6 months. Statistics are fantastic, it can be a fantastic sum of incorrect data and we get the wrong picture. But the number, so all of us, I'm talking about 168 thousand who live in Serbia, Macedonia, Germany, France and Italy and are receiving our pension for the completed 5, 10, 3, 2, 7 years of internship. They are held in our statistics as retirement pensions because the proportionate are not excluded from this statistics. I'm also talking about 168 others, not these same, excuse me, not 168, I'm talking about 182,000 pensioners living in the Republic of Croatia and despite pensions for 12, 13, 15, 17, 20 years in the Republic of Croatia receive part of their pension from Slovenia, Germany, Italy. So there are 350 thousand proportionate pensions that give the wrong picture of Croatian pensioners, about their internship. And I know that disability pensions under international regulations are also very, very hard to get because they fall under double skill. It must give consent to both our HZMO and the foreign insurance company must agree to the findings in order to get a disability pension. So they're mostly in the age pension category. Early age is not contaminated by this data because in many countries, there are criteria for early age or there is no or they are completely different from with us. But I am aiming precisely at this one fact that Croatian pensioners have an average of 30 years of internships, and most of them are in retirement. So, I remember when I was a boy, then people were hired for 45 years, jobs were opening up, industry was growing up, and they had collected 15 or 20 years by the end of their lifetime and retired. They're gone between us. They're gone. I've already got 60 you know. They're not here. Today, an old age is rarely who, at the age of 15 or 17, is an intern from Croatian citizens. They go 35 to 40 and over 40. So, I just want to say to the Minister and to everyone, we can very much, here's the guy who texted me, says, why is the minister lying to us? He says the average age pension for an internship of over 40 years is 4300 kuna when he says, statistics say it's 3500. I answered him that both data and other were correct. Nobody lies to you. But there is one with international contracts, and the other without international contracts. So, the clean average of our pensioners at over 40 years of age is 4345, April of this year's data and the average pension relative to the average salary is 70.91% or 71% to round. So statistics don't tell us anything. We can interpret them by the principle of bikinis, to discover what's interesting, and hide what's important. But there is indeed about them, if we analyze them, if we approach them properly, that we can know what is the pension of those who live in the Republic of Croatia and who have only done their job in the Republic because we are 100% responsible for them. We're 100% responsible for them, and they live on it for sure. We are not focused on those who live outside the Republic of Croatia because their home state has to take care of their social security, and we still care less than those who, say from three countries, are, have a very low pension, means one small part, but one large part of those who receive pensions from abroad are not in the focus of our interest, but we need to exclude them from these statistics to, for example. like now in Međimurje, those who have the lowest pension, and have a second pension from Switzerland and Germany do not get the greatest resurrection. That's not fair. Then all of us who do this public business get the showers, how can we give to the one who already has another pension from abroad. Therefore, it is in the interest of all of us to clarify this situation. It wasn't my intention, but I'm using this remaining time that I had in relation to this law to draw attention that our pensioners deserve better treatment and that we don't have to accuse them of having a little internship. They have quite an internship, but we have to show it in a different light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91581	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Therefore, the individual debate will continue, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91582	I can go on very briefly. I can say to continue this, what was touched in this debate, and that is the announced pension reform. I think that we should stop at the ball, that we should afford all of our citizens something not just a presentation and not as much as it costs because I have to say that two concepts of financial sustainability and the adequateness of pensions are completely opposite. So they're not your brother and sister. So if we speak exclusively from the financial sustainability position, then we will always come into a position that we have to pay out of tax revenues for the payment of pensions another 17 billion. And then when the pensioners react to me, she says we're lucky to get these pensions, too. And I said, people don't like that, you have a high VAT, you pay your bills and your personal spending of a million and 100 and so many thousands of pensioners living here, you fill your own budget for paying your pensions because you regularly pay taxes. We support in this pension reform that pensioners of all categories can work except those who have loss, total loss of working ability and premature and disability pensions and family pensions and retirement pensions, why not work and why not pay half of their contributions to health and pension when we have such a great demand for workers for labour. After all, I can't do everything, I can't work full-time but I can contribute to the present state. I also use the opportunity and I appeal to the ministry in cooperation with other ministries to solve the problem of the work of craftsmen because they have to go into retirement to close the crafts which is completely harmful to our society because we are left without crafts. Why can't they pass it on to their heirs or why they can't turn it around, they can still work, even if they only receive what they receive as a pension just what they have paid for. Because you know that there is a big difference with them in craftsmen and agricultural pensions, there is a big difference between what is paid and what they use from 1999 onwards because they fall under the protected category of lowest pensions. And when the minister tells me he'll give everyone 27% if they give up the second pillar, I think he'll give some a lot more and I can back that up. In fact, 241 thousand lowest pensions have been paid, paid through contributions that would give it the right to 994 kuna pensions and they receive an average of 1500 kuna in 26 years, which means that the state for the lowest pensions average gives 52% not 27% if someone gets out of the second pillar. I'm not saying this uglyly, I think that this category of lowest sea pension must survive because we as a society haven't worked enough to prevent the gray economy, that the state wasn't hired not to allow the payment of wages without contributions, that it didn't manage at all with this number of company failures, and that category must exist. Only we have to be precise in mathematics and we have to present to the public true data because there are new billions and 450 million as we have a billion and 650 million that we pay abroad. And another piece of information so I can refresh you. Let's say now, let's agree on how many pension incomes live Croatian pensioners. Is that 38 billion less billions and 600 we're paying out there? No, I don't. It's less than a billion and 600 first, but then it's plus 4.5 billion coming from abroad to Croatia. These are all the individual rights our citizens have earned but in the pension distribution that can be spent in Croatia is currently available 41 billion because 4.5 billion kunas come to pensioners from abroad. So much for the true picture of Croatian pensioners. And that's a little bit. And that's a little bit. In particular, there is little for those who have worked their whole lives for minimum wages, who have worked under current conditions for 2 thousand 741 kuna net wages and that pension will not, that salary will not give a pension, a good pension either in a one-stop-shop or in a three-stage system. So the problem of small Croatian pensions is ultimately low wages. We will have to reposition the policy, i.e. redefine the salary policy with these salaries of the future for Croatians, with this level of pay for the future for Croatian pensioners, through one step, through two steps, through a three-stage system, it will be but it will be poor. So think about what I've told you, we've had some free time, so I've expanded the subject, don't mind me, I hope it was interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91583	Thank you very much. It was obviously interesting, you have replicas. He's the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91584	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrelja, here you mentioned craftsmen, first of all just to get involved, so they can pass on to their successors of the crafts, so it is not impossible, however, that the question remains what they can do later, whether they can be employed under the current laws, the one who retired from one job cannot be employed in that same workplace. Maybe there's something to do. As for the category of lowest pensions. We need to be careful and what I said more than once, we need to separate pension insurance from social benefits. Someone who's a craftsman, and I understand these craftsmen, why they would pay more contributions and give to the state, they'd better take care of that money themselves today, invest in real estate, maybe in a third volunteer column, etc., because they don't simply trust the state to have some pension. But there are those who paid. And we can get into a situation where, through the exception of some pension, we guarantee people who didn't pay each other, they don't have as many payments as they do, we have to make a clear distinction and put this in the sphere of social problems and make a social package and leave our pensions on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91585	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91586	Yeah, I don't want to argue about whether or not the craftsmen can pass on, but I know for sure if they were going into credit arrangements that they couldn't pass on to anyone but had to end this story to the end and the point of this whole story was to allow them to work, not to turn off, to maybe motivate someone young to do these turns that are dying. As for the lowest pensions, the principle of solidarity, reciprocity has its limits. I would agree with you that this should be a social welfare paid by the state with the foundation and its mistakes. There are few people you talk about who have paid a lot more, they have a higher pension. Not much higher than how it's determined to be the lowest because the lowest is let's say in these our terms firmly defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91587	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91588	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, you have opened a series of actually issues in your discussion and talk about the pension system in one simple way is simply impossible because we have a pensioner oho-ho to say so. First let's take that average salary in the Republic of Croatia, about 16, 17 years ago was about 3,200, today according to the latest data from the previous month about 6200, take that difference only. And the normal thing that pensions and that didn't follow that growth, but different methods of calculating the basics of pensions of those going into retirement led to a series of additions and inequalitys in pension pay and not talking about pensions that have a social character, not talking about pensions that follow specific regulations, and then when you put it all in one pot, then you get to a bunch of wrong information that unfortunately you could hear in the past weeks when there have been massive attacks on the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91589	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91590	Comrade Shuker, we have discussed this many times, I am not one of those who will glorify the pension reform that was made in 1998, I know that and then it was made that the law was passed 15.7.1998 before the summer break and it was announced to the social partners that it would be done in autumn 1998. So the tricks were, the tricks went on and I think that what we were giving supplements that we negotiated in front of HSU with your government in 2003 and those additions they gave before were given for a reason, not with the aim of destroying the pension reform but unfortunately we were making progress II. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, We didn't take care of the pillar all the time, we only fixed that part of the pillar, but it wasn't bad, though, it was just good intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91591	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91592	Thank you, Vice President. So even though there is a law here, in fact, before us, that regulates the ability to monitor and control the handling and settlement of administrative disputes in the procedures in which a powerful solution has been taken, but as a rule that as far as extraordinary checks are concerned and according to the official duty of 5 years, I think that this colleague Hrelja has said well in his debate on behalf of the club that we have had a lot in history let's say speculative findings, opinions, enabling disabled pensions, which are defensive, which is based on some medical documentation that, let's say to such folk dictionaries were, we know that he's in a disability pension and can rip out a bull's tail, right? So, that it also means nothing and that we must certainly look at at least to ensure that all future things can be controlled and controlled and found and opinions and as far as partial or total loss of working ability and I think this law will solve it well. This past and what's really killing us all the time because when we're looking at it, and it really needs to get into a good analysis of our pension insurance system or the users themselves, when we're looking at what's in it. Now I've just said something in the opening line about it would be good to find really true, we had 1.1.2014, we simply prescribed all disability pensions, or people who retired because of disability, ageing for old age, so 65 years in men were transferred to retirement, so by law enforcement. So then when we look at statistics, we have more retirement pensions and we've actually had a lot of transfers that now look more like this to Europe when we've done it. Also, in the late 1990s, '96, the care of taking over, privatisation solved through pension insurance. So then we retired a large contingent of a working-age population under the exception of some disabled and others who fell again on the burden of the budget not the burden of those who were paying. When we talk about pensions under special regulations and benefits, so both defence and others, so all this falls under the burden of the budget, why we're talking now we don't have enough to cover ourselves, because we've been shopping with this social peace. And he's supposed to be out of the budget, and I don't have a problem with that at all, but let's split it up. Let's write down exactly who's right, who's what he's paying and what's his pension. We have a defense attorney who worked for 30 years and now they've taken what's more favourable to them because of the supplement and everything, they have practically the same guaranteed minimum pension of 2500 kuna, a little more than those who have 5 days of internship because they're defenders. What about that money he was paying? Where'd that go? So we have a lot of these things where, when we talk about the very creation or transformation of our pension cooperation, HZMO has now at least become a retirement insurance office because in its core it is funded from the budget because in the 1990s all their complete assets are nationalised or passed under state property. So shares in public enterprises, JANAFs, HEPs, etc. There's more or less something that's left under retirement insurance, under the Bureau, but it's all gone, all their ways of action have gone underground and then it stops under the same hat and we're going to pay everyone off the budget. So it's certain that 5.8 billion special regulations a year to 6, that something should go out of the budget. But one part of those people paid and regularly, the other one didn't. That's where we make the distinction clear. As for both the reforms in general and everything, of course, we now have big problems with people who went with a minimum or up to 75% as the minister says average salaries, because we know that the average gross salary is divided by the average gross salary of that year in Croatia and then we get, we also have the value of the personal point times internship and then we also have the supplement now that is from the I pillar. Of course, in the next 10 years, we've had a few months and in the last year, cases that the first people went with II. Retired by law enforcement only because, for example, the engineers were so well-fused, they had a defacto difference in 500 kuna from the one who had left a year earlier in retirement, with the same conditions, the same workplace, but he who is now going under this law from both pillars. So there's this reason why the 27% supplement must be solved because the law says that the supplement does not apply to pensions under special regulations, and these are all those that I have listed before. So something has to be done. What, when we talk to both craftsmen and everything, why don't the craftsmen pay more in retirement today? Because they don't believe it, so it's a lack of trust. So you can resent it. First of all, they're taking money better now that they're going to invest themselves in their own future, not paying more money to the state, so what they want to experience is that it's worth it, which will then be capitalized, etc. Of course, when they retire that they're small pensions. I'm not saying someone wasn't smarter, but that's where we need to work on financial literacy, too. We have a third volunteer column, it might need to be potentiated, it's the purest thing on its basis. We came out with a proposal, why II. A pole? Well, people like to see, they get messages, they can go to an e-citizen, they can be interested, they can see how much capitalized assets they have in II. They step in and feel that it's their money, as it should be, their heirs have the right to inherit it if they don't start, unfortunately if they die and they don't start using their pension. If they start, then it goes into the insurance company and more or less the same as the I.T., the contract is signed and what God gives you. And that's why we went with the proposal, give people at least 20% to decide that they can win now. Because what's gonna happen? You have on one side a state that tells you to transfer everything to the first column, you get a 27% allowance, and you get a pension that's going to be 400 kuna, and you give them 20% to take it from the second pillar, and then he accounts, uh, I'm entitled if I'm in 500 000 kuna capitalized in II. The column, I can 100 000 withdraw right now and have 400 kuna less pension. And now he's counting on how old it's gonna take him to make up for those 400 kunas, practically 12, 15 years, he's gonna have to be alive and take a pension to get to the same thing. And it just needs to give choices, and what it's going to do with those 100,000 kunas that's its choice, sure that it can help itself, its children, close the loan, do anything else, invest further, primate the contributions from those funds, anything else. And that's actually what we want with it getting that II. The pillar also strengthens in such a way, of course, and what should have been done from 2002 to 2012 to equalize 10 10, but no government had the courage, nor the means to increase the allocations to pillar I because, of course, it is a direct deficit, i.e. the reduction of income in pillar I. You also mentioned about VAT that pensioners are co-financed in this way because these 17 billion are financed from general incomes, which the state of course provides for what is not collected by the foundation of pensions, of course if they fire these 100,000 kunas, or on a specific example, but the possibility of people getting a part of their savings, would certainly encourage economic activity that I think directly in just a few months to 40% immediately return to the VAT budget itself, through various forms and taxes on profits, later and increasing the consumption itself which then leads to an increase in GDP, increasing employment and then going back to that contribution and so on in the circle. So it's a broader story that would certainly be interesting and certainly interesting to our citizens, in the end we see it in public. What is important is that we need to literally look at these and reform each category of people separately, not to bring back into certain inequalities that I mentioned earlier because in the pursuit of social peace and some justice that people can at least survive with what they have, we must not forget about those who regularly worked, diligently paid and had unfortunately low incomes and thus practically put them in an unequal position, or in the same position that makes no sense. One must be a strictly social category, and another what is their money that they have the right to, which they were paying. There has to be a clear distinction because we can't bring in that someone has 35, 40 years of internship and has practically 100, 200, 300 kuna more pension, but someone who has 5 years of internship or 10 or for certain reasons or any of them has been retired, and by this social criterion we go to give him something else, then it has to be known that it goes into a social package with other social benefits that have nothing to do with pension benefits, and anyway we finance it from the budget, but there's only there to make a clear distinction, and I think it's very clear in the future. There are people who are both sick and working abroad, and now they have less time, and for them, it's not that big a problem. We have people who have lost their jobs, less training, unfortunately doing what you mentioned in the gray economy that is not well regulated, so we can't tell anyone that you deserve it or you didn't. Well no one can live with that 1,000, 1500, 2000, let alone not speak less than 1000 kuna a month. It is a skill, and that state needs to make sure that it has its social character, but not through pension insurance, because what ultimately is insurance that needs to be handled with other people's money and to ensure payment for the future for what people may not be able to manage on their own. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91593	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91594	It'd be a little short for me this time, but I'll try to sum it up. So, craftsmen don't pay as much as they want, there's exactly what is prescribed and how much they have to pay their pension contributions and just so you know those who stopped their activities in 2008 because of the economic crisis, today they get some calculations on how much they have to pay in the pension system to recognise their internship. There is a difference in the amount of contributions because they do not have the right at the Employment Service, they do not have the right to be sick, etc. A twist is a slightly different story. Secondly, I must remind you that the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute had legal personality and its accounts from which contributions were poured until 2000, and only since 2000 has it been transferred to the state treasury, just so much for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91595	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91596	Here's a thank you. When I told the craftsmen, they have a legally prescribed minimum, no one forbids them to be able to pay more, that's a big difference. Of course it depends on the tax on income, they are incomers, so it's all accounted for at the annual level. And they can increase the isolation, so we go back to that story about why they would give to the state if they think they can handle that money better, or they don't trust the state because of this kind of uncertainty. As far as I'm concerned, I think we've changed in this session, and that even the craftsmen have the right to compensation from the Employment Service, that it's new if I'm not mistaken, you can correct me, I think it's put in place, but in fact, we haven't even mentioned farmers and their heights here yet the contributions that are and what they are and what a big problem they're going to be, and here we have to work for both future farmers and their educational financial and financial literacy because they need to know exactly what they have now and what they're going to have. And first of all, the easiest thing to do is share something when you have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91597	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91598	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's colleague Curai, you've already answered part about the farmer. It's one group of people who definitely through the contributions they make must be clear to them how and what they're going to hang in the next few years, or whether they're going to be able to have a decent pension with their long-term work. I think that's where it's being created and in the media there's been one false perception about the second pension column, what's the key thing that people are going to have a choice, they're going to decide for themselves, and that's going to go that way for them to decide how to decide for themselves. And one thing you said and I totally think that most people support it is that you definitely need to separate the pensions of people who have paid most of their lives, so you've been doing some and more than 40 years of work experience from those who are only a few years old, so they're under special conditions, special regulations, and then we get a huge proportion both at the level of pensions and at the level of other rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91599	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91600	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bilek, yes, unfortunately one is the education we speak of, and the other is when people have no money and survive both as farmers and many of them might also be paying III. And that they have money. That's where we go back to that whole story, the other day I heard on the news that in Italy they want migrants because they need as many employees as possible to keep their pension system sustainable. What's he saying? We have to have a 1:3 ratio to make everything work. We have 1: none of the three, so we don't have 30% more of those who work against those who are retired because we've calmed people over the years and what they need and what they don't need. Something was supposed to go to social rights, and we were putting everything under the same basket, and now it's coming at us for payment. And these people don't need, though, they need help, they need to ensure a decent life as minimally as they can, it's very difficult, but not at... those who have been paying and very well separated, and I think that's where we agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91601	Thank you very much. The last individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the minister has given all the business opportunities to talk about practically the signs of pension reform or pension reform, it does not matter what we call it, because he felt the need to in this House after those intense debates that have taken place in recent weeks say some things and that in principle the possibility of representatives to communicate certain things with him today. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Everyone could ask the question today, look, it's work material still being discussed, but from what the minister said today and from what the government's representative is saying, I think two things are very important in which this future reform should go, and that is, above all, the control and security of those who are currently managing 100 billion Croatian citizens' money. And the other thing is the possibility of a choice for a particular group of pensioners who were practically in 2002 just because they were born one year were forced to have one model. So that's, let me put it that way. There was a chance today, given that the minister was here, that we might discuss it. But what happened didn't happen. I came to the debate for several reasons, so first of all we have to be aware of the fact that when the report of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute comes here, then very few MPs don't even look at it, that I'm not talking about reading it. Because today in the debates there are a number of questions that are nicely asked in the HZMO report and when you read it a little bit, everyone can find an answer to certain questions, so if they want to deepen the answer to that question, people who represent the HZMO report based on knowledge, data and experience can answer these questions. What's definitely happening at this point is that the pension system is creating an annual deficit of 17 billion kuna. Now, we can explain these, like, pensions, but that's when you turn the VAT rate, that's about 8.5% of the VAT. So these are facts. Now, if you want to talk about facts, then you have to explain some of the things that all kinds of pensions are paying off in Croatia today. How much of those who, by the basis of their work, have made a full pension, how many who have gone into some early retirement, how many who, by some special regulations, have gone into retirement, and the logical thing is, if the state and that and when you repaint analoguely and to HZZO, is the exact same thing. So if the state gives someone a right that is above what the contribution is paid for, then the state must secure those funds in its budget. And they're just facts. And therefore, in 2010, a fiscal responsibility law has been passed which requires those who propose the Law to provide for the amount of funds that the Law will cost and the source of the funds from which it will be paid. And if we'd all stick to it together, then we just wouldn't be asking these questions that we're asking today. Or how complex math this is. My colleagues and colleagues, let's go back to 2002 when practically the application of the pension reform began. That year he entered the treasury, in fact there was no treasure at the time, but the entire coverage of the budget entered HZO, HZMO, the budget was about 67, 68, 70 billion kuna, the deficit of that budget was 6%. Therefore, this GDP, the GDP was as large as it was, the average salary was around 3100, 3200 kuna, and it was an environment where the pension reform began to apply and that II pillar of pension. Now, those who then predicted that someone would be able to increase their retirement in two or three years from the state budget to the second pillar of retirement, at the same time you have a deficit of the state budget of 6% was a little bit, so to speak, ticklish. But it started to happen and this second pillar of retirement today has grown to, in fact, at this point it's about 95, 96 billion, by the end of the year it's going to rise to 100 billion kuna. And now we have a few things that are contradictory. First, on the supervisory boards of these funds, compulsory pension funds, so those who manage the funds of Croatian citizens are representatives of those who founded it. And now one question to you, to us, to the Minister, to everyone else, should there be some kind of representatives or to those pensioners or to the government or to be someone who has to control it? Because look, 100 billion at the moment when you look at it are huge funds. Practically, given the investment potential of the largest financial institution in the Republic of Croatia. And you know very well that business banks have rules to behave by. They've got these funds, they're controlled by HANFA. So that's why some things would have to change, had to... The other thing, what I can't get under my hat, is this society that takes over after retirement payoffs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I simply think it should be part of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Why would someone take 5% just like this to process, when HZMO can do it without a problem with that technical part of the job they're working on. So these are just facts. And that's what the minister today wanted to maybe encourage here to hear, to see how different colleagues from different political options are thinking, but unfortunately there is no. You can spread your hands as long as you want, but it's about the fund that's being transferred to at the time you retire. Then pensions are paid out of that fund. And now someone's saying that this fund should, that Reifeisen Bank or whoever's selling that fund, I don't know, Triglav Insurance or anyone else. I don't see why it wouldn't be in the cover of something. After all, why wouldn't the state become the owner? Why should pensioners not become owners of who will make the technical payment of that part? Because I'm talking about that part where you retire. Not as long as it is paid into a mandatory pension fund, so to the companies that manage these funds. The second thing to think about is, at this point in time, under the Law, we oblige the mandatory pension funds to invest 60% of the funds in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. Since also due to good macroeconomic indicators and all that, credit rating of the Republic of Croatia is growing slightly, thereby and borrowing costs, the logical thing that the contribution to the bonds of the Republic of Croatia in the coming years will be less and smaller, and the cost of interest, government debt borrowing or debt refinancing from previous years is becoming smaller and smaller in the state budget, then the logical thing is that we can't at the time when mandatory pension funds submit reports here in the high home say you have a small contribution, and we have obliged them to invest so much and so much money. And now we come to what's called a risk. If you're forcing someone to take a bigger risk, then you have to have a bigger control system. And that's why, if you remember, at the beginning of my debate I said that one of the very important segments that the minister tried to say today, it's a system of control enhanced... Mandatory pension funds, and even on the trail of what happened in the previous years as regards investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I'm going to finish my debate with an amendment to the 2014 Law. So it wasn't that long ago. Then a changed model and a way of calculating pensions could then be if someone wanted to change this difference as far as this 27% supplement is concerned, but someone with a change of models and a way of calculating pensions thought it would cancel, but failed. And secondly, you need to see how much pension money has been transferred to the state budget based on the amendment of the law. That was what was said somewhere around a billion 600 million. However, with HZMO data, and we can ask gentlemen from mandatory pension funds, that amount is far, far higher. And so, if that's when the money was taken from mandatory retirement, then no one asked people, they'll, they'll take someone like this, to patch up the holes in the budget, then I don't know what's with all this halabuca. So, first of all, this is a very sensitive subject. So it's tangling 1,500, million and 500 thousand of our fellow citizens, and that's why we need to be very careful, what kind of solution we're going to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91603	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Curray, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91604	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Shuker, at first you mentioned the minister who is this i.e. came, and last i.e. he objected that he was missing, same in a technical law, as regards mandatory pension funds. So he came here today, so we came back here today to talk to him about something that's not the point of the agenda, so never good. What is important in mandatory pension funds, it should be said, are citizens of compulsory pension funds. We all pay in one of those 4. The companies that manage these are separate legal entities, which have their own owners and which make them, we can say extra profits. So 430 and some million kn income, 200 million kn profit. I think it's one of the most profitable legal businesses I've ever heard with such income ratios, i.e. income and profit. And that's where we need to talk about the fees and talk about their investment. So far, the safest port has been state bonds, high yields, all wonderful. Now that this is shrinking, we need to be very careful, if we need to keep an eye on it, that it does not accidentally go into venture capital funds, but rather invests in infrastructure projects and I agree that this is a great potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91605	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91606	Thank you very much. So, first of all, fellow citizens have put their savings into the management of these mobile pension funds. That's the first thing, but this is what I said, so those who oversee these pension funds obligations, so their boards of directors are made up of people and their founders. That's what's not good, maybe the law should change that... and representatives in some percentage, whether the pensioners, whether the government representatives, the main one to be and I said so, is that control system, along with the story of the HANF and control and surveillance of HANFA because you know well that they must send the HANFA reports as much as they invest, what they have invested in HANFA controlling their... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and all together and I, if you have noticed already several times in my discussions, stress the importance of HANFA, as an independent regulator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As the CNB oversees banks, so HANFA controls this non-banking financial sector which is extremely powerful and therefore the HANFA must be very careful.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91607	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91608	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, in your debate, you mentioned several times about pension funds, as if there was no control there. I will remind you that every year they report to the Croatian Parliament, they have been on the board and at the session. On the other hand, you mentioned a few times the word "Governmental Government" sees the work of pension funds. And that you should monitor, perhaps, and as you mentioned it several times, it cut into my ear and as if I felt this regret that these 100 billion are no longer governmental, but from Croatian citizens. So I'm afraid that maybe you're subliminally agreeing with the message now to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia exactly what they don't want, which is that the government takes those 100 billion and does with them what it thinks it should, and you believe the support of the citizens is zero, so don't even say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91609	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91610	Comrade Maras, you, unfortunately, are very often wrong to hear, and then what you hear wrongly, even more tragically, you misread it, so you've done it now. So, you've been listening to my debate... I kept my mouth shut while you were talking, I beg you to keep your mouth shut and learn your final decency to listen while others speak. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Please not from the bench.]] I've been listening to you, therefore, I'm asking you nicely to remain silent while I speak. ... [[Let's not get off the bench.]] You don't need to give me my time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So you're not listening, you're making statements again, you're saying things that just don't stand. You will tell Croatian citizens that they should not have any influence on the business of these mandatory pension funds, which... About their 100 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing, therefore, you said it here clearly, and I advocate that Croatian citizens have their own influence, which doesn't matter, I just pointed out that this is something to discuss. The second thing, this Parliament, when it discusses the work of compulsory pension funds, it is not supervision, it is simply a legal obligation, that those in the Parliament report that the Parliament has basic information, and supervision is something else entirely. And what you forgot to say crucially, I have indicated here an independent regulator, which is HANFA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91611	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91612	Thank you, dear Vice President. In your debate, you said that the minister was there and that he explained the law, which is certainly what everyone expects from every minister to explain the laws especially like this, and not that as it has been common to some ministers only to send state secretaries to suffer these criticisms. You're saying there's no discussion, we've had a chance to discuss it, so I'm asking you, what message you're sending, that we're even here to discuss some things. In view of the large number. The amendment, which the opposition gives to the laws, has not been adopted by any... And what discussion then ye shall respect, and thus ye shall do according to thy own way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You'll also do with this reform, here's the key thing, like you said 100 billion, trying to get citizens across, thirsty across the water, and now a little bit... on the subject and trying to explain it to them in what ways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think the government threw about 100 billion, which is the money of Croatian citizens, those who are bonds of pension funds, i.e. who are insurance companies, who pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91613	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91614	A colleague, Lenart, the only one who took the money from the second pillar of the pension is the government in 2014. So they're the only ones who took new ones from 2 pillars of retirement, that's a fact. This is all that's being said now, if you were there when the minister was talking, then you'd see it's not like that. If that wasn't the case. But let's leave the story like this, in the end, when the legal proposal is found for the first time in a public debate, then we'll be able to give each of our opinions, but based on something that's been proposed. And that's the point of the whole story. About how someone understands the possibility to argue or not, it's another pair of shoes. I just said that the minister was here this morning when he extended his opening statement to the basic indications in which the pension reform should go gave the possibility for business representatives to discuss that the chairman cannot warn them about something that is not the agenda point. I didn't say anything else to my colleague Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91615	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91616	Dear fellow Shucker. Well, it's not exactly the role of a retirement insurance company to just make payments. You know those who die, or very early, and have determined that a lifetime pension, the rest remains fashionable, therefore it is not quite as uninteresting to buy from Triglav the pension insurance company Raiffeisen. It is therefore necessary to take care of this. And, of course, I advocate that the part about how the second pillar users are entitled to use it to make a completely different arrangement. And to be clear, we have more ways to protect those lowest pensions, not automatically getting out of the second pillar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91617	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91618	My colleague Hrelja, I was just here trying to throw some issues into my discussion so I could say about the debate. Not at all prejudicing what will be in the law and not even imposing an opinion. I just said it would be logical since there's only one society that's going to pay out pensions from these four funds that the state should think about owning it, and among other things, what you said, so for the rest of the funds, etc. And for safety, so it's just something to think about. Perhaps fellow Maras, you, someone, fellow Misic, someone else will have a different thought and I respect it but let's put it on the table and let's discuss it, whether it's like that and not in 2 or 3 years when something happens is like this. So I'm into it because it's about the fates of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens that we can discuss it well, well and hopefully make the right decision. My debate was only going in that direction, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91619	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Gordan Maras, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91620	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. This is because the debate lasted and the SDP's Club of Representatives must look at it, i.e. take up and tell the citizens of the Republic its position, which in this case is totally the opposite of what is behind the hill. So we will support this law in view of certain harmonisations related to decisions of the Constitutional Court and control of certain things that are related to pension insurance, which means that these improvements have nothing to do with what is being discussed in public and what is essentially a full pension reform where they are seen both in the atmosphere and in the discussions of colleagues from the HDZ Club of Representatives essentially the Government is trying to share everything. We have now I'd say one approach to the Christmas government. Well, you see, like today's Santa Claus of the government, as Mr. Hrelja said today, if we give the church property of the state why we can't make for our pensioners and share real estate to make retirement homes? If we have singled out a billion and some kuna a year to increase rights on a defensive basis and received 9,000 new demands, it means practically 23 years after the storm and the release of our homeland, now comes 8.9 thousand new demands and spends more than a billion kuna on this and for the pensioners then in the debates it is argued, as counterpart Schuker said and listen there is no money enough because 17 billion kuna is already missing for the pension system in the state budget. So let us decide that we have and to help and to be solid and to have intergenerational solidarity to help our older colleagues and colleagues, fellow citizens who live really hard and that's what this is all about. It is necessary to urgently find measures that will raise average pensions, to ensure the sustainability of the pension system in the next period, and these 100 billion kunas do not take into account the budget as clearly HDZ would like, as HDZ would like, but rather do, to increase the allocations for the second pension column and thus enable our fellow citizens who are working today to have a decent man's pension tomorrow. Let's talk about it. These are the changes against which our fellow citizens are rebelling, not to mention those changes that will extend the deadline for 2 years where 2,300,000 of our citizens must adapt their lives to the needs of HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic. So why this five-year extension now? These are the topics we want to talk about here and of course we'll all agree on these techniques. So there's no such thing as essential stuff. The messages the government is sending, we're going to take you 100 billion, you're going to be working from work directly to the cemetery and third, what's particularly surprising to me, I'm glad my colleague Shuker called after me, is that the citizens have no influence. So since they have no influence if they choose between 4, they can change every year which fund will manage their money, it's like saying citizens have no influence working with any bank that's not registered in the Republic of Croatia. So there's a system that may not be ideal, but the way we have it, and the only way to get people a decent pension for those who work and save them is not to take their money, not to take 100 billion, but to allocate a larger amount of pension rate for the benefit of II. the pension rate to make those pensions bigger in the future. Let's talk about it, and these are the real topics that we need to discuss here, and our fellow citizens need to know what our position is, political parties on this issue. We will fight for greater pensions both present and higher separations in II. Retirement column in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91621	The HDZ advocates' club also came forward for the closing statement, on their behalf will be by representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I answered on behalf of the HDZ Club for a few facts because, look, when someone this beautiful is speaking in vehemently, and forget that in 2014, because I was looking for the exact data is from II. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. It's so withdrawn from II. the pension rate, 2014 and 2015 and 2016 under the law of 2014; I repeat another key provision in this law was a new model of calculation of the basics actually pensions primarily for those who would retire from I and II. It's coming. And those are the facts. At that time, some were against it, as they would today be against it if it were done in this way. So it's a fact but some who were then talking about it, today they're talking about something else and that's what's not good and that's what's not good for the responsibility of us as Parliamentarians. Another thing, to say that the possibility of going to this fund or that fund is the ability to control the fund is simply ridiculous. So what are my thoughts, my reflections, I finally told the Minister publicly today in my debate, I believe that in the Supervisory Board of Mandatory Pension Funds there should be two representatives of the citizens. That's control for me, that's how I control. The state, not the state, but this High House, so independent regulators are the body of our parliamentary deputies, they report to us and we appoint them. And so the independent regulator is HANFA, which controls mandatory pension funds and they in their financial annual work report, give us one picture and this work, among other things, which are mandatory pension funds. So, through our decision to pass the law on independent financial regulators, we practically built our extended arm. However, the question arises whether there should be representatives of citizens on the supervisory boards of these boards of directors or supervisory committees? It's just a question, not that it should be. This is a question that will be answered by people who know the fund industry, etc., so it's just something to discuss because when you don't want to discuss a topic, it won't even bring a quality solution. Sometimes even a stupid proposal can be a good proposal but it's not good that we don't discuss it and that ad hoc is what we're saying, we're going to be pushing for an increase in the separation of II. It's coming. Well, one and the other, the political option had that opportunity and they were in certain phases of power, so they didn't do it. And why didn't they do it? For the simple reason that the financial opportunities of the Croatian state did not allow it. About that later. But it's a matter of political decision and a matter of debate here again. So let's not ignore some things, let's not talk, let's just discuss this topic and let's make the best solution for Croatian citizens. That's what the minister said today, that's what we want to send as a message from the HDZ Club because it's not pleasant to listen to the past two weeks, three weeks of stories will be taken money, Croatian pensioners will be left without a pension, it's not a convenient message and it's not convenient to listen to people who have a hard time living, it's not convenient to listen to such messages and our task in this House is not to send such ugly messages, our task is to fight to make the legal solution as best and as good as possible and everything that has been wrong in recent years should be corrected. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, someone took 4 billion and 300 out of that II. The pension rate and you know well that with the law in Article 100, I think the Pension Fund Act was said to transfer these money from II. It enters the HZMO pension at the moment when a solution is obtained, when all go into retirement and not 2014, 2015, 2016, long before these people retired and for one reason only, to patch up the budget because the government was in excessive deficit measures and with those 600, 700, 800 million how much the picture was paid annually, was no longer some black but was a little gray but today someone simply doesn't want to talk about it, but just skips it as if it didn't happen and holds lessons for someone else to behave. I repeat my colleagues and colleagues, 2014, 2015, 2016, so the SDP government's 4 billion 358 million, 349 623 kuna and 76 lipa was transferred from II. The pillar... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91623	Time, thank you. Representatives' club Glas-HSU also came forward for the final word, on their behalf will be represented by Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91624	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. At least I wanted this debate to turn, which was who made it from the position of the HDZ coalition government or the SDP. The fact that 2016 was not already the SDP government, 2016 was another government. And secondly, no one took anything from anyone and no one will take anything from anyone tomorrow. So there's one rule in the pension system that you can't use two more favourable rights at the same time, even Mr. Jozo Rados couldn't use his savings if he went to parliamentary retirement and then he got another prize because he's a Eurospeaker. So you can't use two rights, you can't retire on more favourable terms to count on the best 10 years and use II savings. The pillar, so there were legal grounds to do so. Whether the moment is targeted or not, about that after. But the fact that it is not only because people who retire under special regulations have given an opportunity to say within a month whether they agree to give up, or if they object, they had to make a written complaint. Okay, I have personal objections to this procedure, but they could all object and that someone objected that he didn't want to be touched by II. The column, you wouldn't touch it. It's a post. At the same time, in the future of this reform, anyone who wants SDP, HNS, HDZ can say that someone will be taken from someone, will not be taken from them because it is citizens' property, has to offer something. Whether it is interpreted as blackmail or as a solution, then, it is possible for those with the lowest pensions, and possibly for those with solid salaries to consider it a blackmail. That's what I need to talk to you about. As is necessary to discuss the fact that you had in your individual debate, which is the bonds have an increasingly smaller contribution, which we have prepared for the investment of institutional investors, which is mandatory pension funds. Are they similar to investing in the port of Gruz, do we have to give concessions to the Turks and do we even have to build the Yellow Lock-Rjeka highway, can we design hydropower plants that can be built by pension funds? With long-term concessions and long-term contributions. That should be really discussed because otherwise, I agree with you that bond-based offerings will be getting smaller and smaller. After all, what are the bank interest rates? Well, we're going to have to do a little bit more, but I don't have any savings, so I don't have that problem, but we're going to have to pay for the savings, and we're not getting any interest. Thus, times are challenging and should indeed be discussed. And to conclude, I was a little nervous about this ball transfer, so I volunteered, otherwise I use the opportunity to say once again that the GLAS and HSU club will support this law that is the subject of our debate, and we think that this is a good solution, regardless of what we are going to set a single amendment behind because we consider it to be a more appropriate time for the revision of the disability pension to be 10 years than it was proposed 5, but it will not affect our decision under this law that we consider well-organised and ultimately thank the representatives of the ministry for having respected my debate on this issue in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91625	The live wall advocates' club also applied for the closing statement, on their behalf will be spoken by MP Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91626	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the proposed Pension Insurance Act will not solve our pensioners' problems. And one of the reasons is that although the government is trying to pretend that it's going to give pensioners some kind of raise, it's clear from the plane that he's raising the retirement age at the same time. It means that women who were able to retire at 60 years of age, during which year they will only be able to make it to 65 men who could do it by 65, will not be able to make it to 67. And what's going on? People will have to work for years more, they will receive pensions for years less, God's state will give them some sort of supplement, and in nature, or defacto will just give them what they had before. So with this solution, the government will not essentially increase pension pension pensioners, on the contrary, because they will have to work longer, they will receive even less pensions, essentially. Because it is clear if the average age is 76 years in Croatia, and you have to work until 67th very little time people will receive those pensions. And especially this law will break on women and what is worse than anything else, not only will it break on them, but if they decide by any chance, i.e. If the spine can't take their hard work anymore, then what's going to happen? They'll be penalized. The peace system will punish them. You want a year early retirement, here's 10, 20% less pension. Yeah, that's what's gonna happen. I call on all pensioners from the pay phone not to support this government, not to support this policy because not because of me, but because of themselves because they are not in the interest of working to the death. What the government is doing, what they're threatening from II. This is not a bad thing in itself, but the problem is that this government doesn't have any deeper solutions. So this is all of the flow from hollow to blank, this is all, as I would say, that's all the combinations like from the cat show where Delboy and Trotter figure out a way to get some money and stuff. And sometimes it's a good idea because I think that II. The pillar, the citizens have no use for it. Those who are in II. The pillar has fewer pensions than those that were in pillar I for the same thing. Who was the only one to profit from II. The pole? Why isn't that public? We all know that they only profited from funds, funds that take about 5% of the total assets of the fund management fund each year, while at the same time making investments like they bought for half a billion kuna of those shares in Agrokor, what happens in the end? People have less than they invested. If they'd kept the money in the stocking, they'd have taken it to the bank or the safe, they'd have more than they have now with a second pillar investment. And that's the basic problem. And that problem, the government now partially solves. The government should allow everyone, to be, to choose already now as they are in a working relationship, whether they will be in the first or second pillar. But, no, the government is forcing people in working relationships to continue saving in the second pillar, so only when they retire will they be able to transfer their funds. Why? So the fund managers can make money on their pensions, on their future, what? It is a parasitic system, which paralyzes other people's work and tortures on the one hand, and on the other hand does not want to give people the fruits of their work and, as I have already pointed out, raises their retirement age, etc. It's a shame. These aren't solutions. And at the same time as the pensioners dig in the trash, Plenkovic, along with a group of HDZs, goes on a trip with a government plane to Moscow, all at the expense of the citizens. All at the expense of the poor girl and still bussing about what a great Croat is like for Croatia. Well, he better have filled his plane with homeless people and sent them around the world instead of crucifying their people's money. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91627	Thank you. The final statement will be by State Secretary Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91628	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first of all, thank you for the debate, which was expected to be intense, and I will first of all refer to the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, and later, at the end and generally to the pension system. Therefore, and you all know that by decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 30 January 2018 that three articles of the Pension Insurance Act have been abolished and cease to apply with 15 July of this year, those provisions were in fact prescribed for the control and control procedure and for the conduct of extraordinary checks on invalidity pensions and physical damages. And the provisions were declared unconstitutional only because there was no time limit in which supervision and control could be carried out and all of this actually created legal uncertainty. This draft law will implement the Constitutional Court decision and those provisions will be brought into line with the Constitution. On this occasion, I must stress that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not being reconsidered, but being accepted and implemented, and that is what we are doing with this law. The text of the final bill differs from the first reading, only in a way that the period in which supervision and control can be carried out extends from one year to five years from the date of delivery of the solution to the party. The deadline of one year, from the power of the solution, was too short, we talked a lot about it during the first reading, and it is more appropriate to set a longer period of time, during which supervision and control can be carried out, the facts on which pension insurance rights have been exercised. The new proposal of 5 years shall comply with the rules governing the general administrative procedure and with the implementation of that decision of the Constitutional Court. Only one question has been raised regarding these amendments and additions, why the Constitutional Court needs a decision, so it should be precisely because the law which has been in force since 2014 has not prescribed a time limit, which is why the Constitutional Court has abolished 3 articles and prescribed that it must be prescribed in the law, the time limit in which it will be done. There, so much about the Pension Insurance Act, which is actually a technical nature, because it is exclusively about harmonising with the Constitutional Court's decision. And now a few only comments and broader on pension reform, so first of all, I have to say that I am glad, that today, very seriously and calmly we have talked about this subject and that part I am glad that it is. I also believe that, in the next period, we will further crush all possible proposals, such as the initial proposals of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system and all other coalition partners and all who have other proposals. So, the current state of the pension system, you know, yourself, is that on, on, 1.25 insurance or workers comes 1 pensioner. You follow it safely, well-involved statistics, so you know that the number of insurance companies has a growth trend, last month it was 1.23, today we already have 1.25, but it's not enough, we're all aware that this ratio is unfavourable. 71 thousand new workers, new employees compared to the first quarter of 2017, very good indicator, very good data, as well as an average annual 50,000, about 50,000 people involved in active employment policy measures, so we look more intensely and we really have an imperative to increase the number of employees to make the entire pension system more stable. However, what we will all really agree on is that the system needs change and improvement and that every 5 current pensioners in the Republic have 40 and more years of internships. Such an average pension, without international contracts, is €4350 in the share of wages is 70% of the salary that is a very good indicator and only one of the evidence that we should continue to strive and try to stay on the labour market as long as we see that by 40 and over years the internship indicators are much, much better and more grateful than the overall average pension in the Republic achieved with a general little over 30 years of internship that is around 2600 kuna. I would also refer here to the statistics that are being conducted and what I can say is that the agreement with HZMO is also working to improve statistical indicators that would further develop the structure of pensioners and the entire pension system in order to make it more visible, clearer, more realistic, and especially to separate international pensions from those indicators with international pensions. Because today someone very well commented here that we have, so I'll just say one thing, that we have an indicator of pensions achieved under international contracts with 40 years of employment, and it's 3563 for you, and on the other hand, without international contracts, so, without those people involved who made part of the internships happen in the Republic of Croatia, and a part somewhere out there, once we've singled out international contracts, then there's already an indicator of 4352 kuna. It is precisely in this sense that HZMO is making efforts, and by September of the month or October, projections are that it will already be in this sense and there will be shifts. On this occasion, I would like to emphasise just one more thing, which is that the Ministry of Labour and Pension System has proposed initial pension reform solutions aimed at the long-term sustainability of the pension system as well as the suitability of pensions. In this case we strengthen the second pillar, we take nothing, we want more and bigger pensions, and we give a choice regarding the pension payment. What I consider to be a special demystification and a special explanation is the flow of money itself. So until the moment of retirement, absolutely nothing changes. Thus, the insurance company in the second pillar continues to pay 5% of the contributions, or more than the proposal, one of the proposals in the pension reform continues to capitalise, fertilise, garden, and thus lasts a lifetime, an entire internship. The longer the better. And there's no change. What we can do with that money and can we go for example? With that money from the second pillar in some store and buy for example. The new kitchen? Well, we can't. But what can we do? Unfortunately, I have to be brutal and say we can really, don't God, just die before retirement and then the money saved in the second pillar is completely inherited. So that's, I think that's really the part that needs to be further explained. And when does any change occur? The change may occur at the moment of payment from the second pillar. It is paid today by the ILO – the Peace Insurance Company, which takes 5% of your first payment. 5% on average salary in the Republic of Croatia is around 18 thousand kuna. It happens when you pay off first. And that part remains, that part, that option remains. But that option becomes really an option, not a single option. Because we also suggest that the possibility of paying off pensions by returning to the first pillar or budget, which will allow greater pensions especially for the most endangered 300 thousand future pensioners who, according to the applicable regulations, would have 500 to 600 kuna lower pensions. So, that's the only part I wanted to especially emphasize and say once again that today, in the course of this whole debate, it wasn't mentioned, so maybe it would be me, maybe it would be good for me to do the same. So no one mentioned a national pension. It's a proposal from this government, introducing a national pension for the most socially endangered. The national pension is part of the strategy for older people and the national pension is implemented as planned in 2020. Who's going to have a right to it? It's those who haven't even gotten minimum retirement conditions, which means people who don't have 15 years of training. It's a minimum condition for retirement. So, the national pension is what today is all about, and it really has something to do with it, it's not mentioned, so I felt the need to do it. Here it is, once again, I am available for all possible questions, and as for one statement from a respected and dear parliamentary representative who says that we will go from work to a cemetery, we will not go from work to a cemetery because we have to be aware that there are very many types and categories of pensions, and so there is a kind of pension for long-term insurance. So it's exactly the kind of pension that's meant for people who get into the world of work very early and who start working at 18 and, of course, they'll be able to retire at 60 and 40 years of training, or on a new proposal 41, 61. So here's the thing, I'm really going back to the seriousness of access to the very serious subject matter of the most vulnerable group of societies and I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91629	There are several reported replicas. MP Misic asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91630	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Secretary, I believe that this nation in our country respects and trusts our state more than the funds. We know whoever's talking to the funds, we're not actually talking, we're talking to the state. Of course it's good to move into that reform of the pension system, there should naturally be a broader consensus of people, experts who understand it all well, gather and really accept that this people once, so I think that time over these 20 years, with which we have lost the trust and in the system of the state today we slowly return and that the simple people begin to trust their government and their country. We know well that we retire at 30 years on average, which is below the European average, which is about 40, 37 years old and then what are we surprised at?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91631	Time's up, thanks. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91632	Thank you, dear Mr. Muscle, for your support and understanding above all. This government does not close its eyes to the problem but looks it directly into the eyes and wants to solve it, these are initial proposals, we expect a very high-quality public debate, a grinding of all potential solutions, and here again I thank you for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91633	Hrelja's representative reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91634	Dear Secretary of State, I agree fully with you that we will not go from work to a cemetery. Namely, there they either drive us or carry us, we don't go to the cemetery ourselves. Secondly, I think I look forward to HZMO's sub-statistics because I really want Croatian citizens to know the truth about the real situation in the pension system, especially those who live in Croatia alone, to achieve their work experience without pensions from abroad and pensions paid abroad, both by money and by years of internships. And the third thing I want to say to you, I welcome your efforts to create new jobs, but I want you to advocate the creation of quality jobs. Doesn't mean a very full-time job with a minimum wage to us for the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91635	The reply to the reply to the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91636	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. I'll start from this last one you listed, the average salary in the Republic of Croatia is growing. Here's the other day, statistics came out and we see that the average salary is 6 grand 250 kuna compared to the previous period of the same year, it's higher by 5.3%. So 71 thousand more employees compared to the previous period, about 50,000 people involved in active policy measures and employment annually. These are good indicators, these are good results of this government, but we want and we want to make it even better because our entire pension system really depends on it, but ultimately and much, much wider picture and situation. And I just wanted to tell you that I was just quoting my colleague Maras, so that's not what I said. It was a quote. [[Intruder Petrov: I apologize to you, State Secretary, time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91637	State Secretary, time's up. Representative Alfirev, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91638	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, we appreciate that here and Minister Pavić came here today before us MPs and, therefore, has been very often lately really trying to sort of fix that picture and create a better picture in the public and here in the Parliament now and prove to everyone now that he actually wanted or thought or that the government wants something else compared to what was said at the very beginning and that it actually came out in public. It went public with a proposal that actually represents nothing more than a citizen blackmail. And that's a fact. What you're trying to show today is actually one promotion and you're actually trying to correct the initial damage you've done to one recklessly I'd say going out to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91639	Thanks, time's up, thanks. The reply to the replica, State Secretary Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91640	Dear Mrs. Alfirev, first of all, I must tell you that this is not about any blackmail but about the great efforts of this government to improve the pension system and to improve the position of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. You're aware of all the indicators yourself, and that we're missing 17 billion kunas a year, and generally that figure is actually between 38 billion and 39 billion kunas. I also believe that you have well followed all the initial solutions so that you have heard from the minister and also from me who has said several times that the change is happening only at the time of the pension payment where the option of the election is added, and this choice of a more favourable pension which will be between 500 and 600 kuna less under the existing laws for a large number of the most vulnerable citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91641	Thank you. Representative Pernar, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91642	Dear MPs, you're not a representative, you're in the office of Secretary of State. Do you know how many pensioners in Croatia have 41 or more years of work experience? It's a very specific question because you said that, as to God's women, they wouldn't have to work until 65 years old but if they were so-called. long-term pensioners, or long-term insurance companies who have 41 years and over. So here's to help you, I've put an official inquiry to the Ministry and you know what the answer is? How many posts? Only 8.66% of pensioners have 41 years or more. So your thesis that he won't have to go to work at the cemetery is a false thesis for them, the vast majority. And as for the defender, only 1% of them have 41 years of internship or more. So these numbers of yours are pure fantasy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91643	Thank you. The reply to the replica, State Secretary Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91644	Dear Mr. Pernar, I refer first of all to the facts of the review of all basic data, the state of the pension insurance system. This is located on the HZMO network page and every month an updated state is released which is structuredly showing many types of pensions. Because, you know, in the Republic of Croatia, there's not just one kind of pension, there's a lot of pensions. Well, there's no way to mix pears and apples. And in one minute, I really can't answer to you for anything, except for you to really point to facts and where you'll find them, and other than that, when you ask how many people are 40 years old and older. I said, if you'd listened, you'd have heard. That's every fifth pensioner in the Republic of Croatia. So only 20 pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, 20% of pensioners in the Republic of Croatia have an internship of 40 years and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91645	Representative Lenart has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91646	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said that this government had remembered national pensions, given that you were 21, 22 at the time, and you probably weren't interested in the subject. HSS, i.e. During Zlatko Tomcic, the Croatian Peasant Party spoke about national pension, but unfortunately neither with the left nor with the right partners managed to achieve it because they had no meaning or hearing of it. We were talking about a national pension that would be the poverty threshold, it's now about 2,000 kuna, so if this government can make it happen, we'll be as satisfied as if it was our idea we talked about a long time ago. We talked about it years later, and this is the necessity that should happen in Croatia, but we have today pensions that are far below, these are agricultural pensions which are too sad for this country and that part of what is called a national pension would certainly be welcome, especially for those people who have done well in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91647	The reply to the replica, State Secretary Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91648	Dear Mr. Lenart, here's my first thanks for your positive attitude towards national retirement. I followed that when I was 21 and 22. And in that sense, national pensions whether the proposal went in 2002 or 2008 I think the most important thing at the end is when it will really start to happen and when people will be able to consume it. There's a proposal for it to be 2020, and that's already in the age strategy, and I don't think there should be competition when someone suggested it. It's important when someone implements it and realizes it, and I'm glad you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91649	Representative Bilek called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91650	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's the thing about national retirement, it's already been said, so I'm not going to say that part again. In the introduction, I already said, to the presentation of Mr. Minister where this debate will probably go, so I am glad that some things have been said here and that we have certain positive trends, especially if we look at almost 71 000 and more employees compared to the same time in the last year, but what I would still like to ask for on behalf of our citizens and everything, if it is possible for this relationship to remain at 40:60, and not at 41:61. I know it's one year and it doesn't look so much, but it's a wave of people or women or farmers who have been working almost since they were 18 or 20, who have a much lower income and who do mostly heavy physical work that are extremely hard to do full-time, and I think that people like that after 40 years deserve their full pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91651	Thank you. The reply to the replica, State Secretary Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91652	Thank you, dear colleague Bilek. You yourself know that these are all initial proposals and that both in the public debate and through expert bodies and through working groups and on GSV will be discussed, so the biggest debate is just ahead of us. You know for a fact that the initial proposals in the public are about 10 days if I'm not mistaken, and we can actually say here we are starting to introduce quality debates about all the initial proposals, and I believe that we will make them very good by the end of the process before going to the government, including the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91653	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91654	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 344. The draft act was concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the amendments were submitted by representatives of Peđa Grbin and Silvano Hrelja, please the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, with us being respected by Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, please welcome the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91655	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This amendment is not accepted. The regulation of a period of more than 5 years does not comply with the principle of legal certainty, since it is a mistake in the conduct of a competent authority which will result in a loss of the party's right. In the event that illegality or irregularity has been established during the control and control procedure, the provisions of the law, which is prescribed by the general administrative procedure, will be followed, depending on the nature of the irregularity or irregularity established. The deadline of 5 years is sufficient, in particular given the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 30.1. of this year NN 18/18 highlights legal certainty, as a fundamental provision of the rule of law. Therefore, the necessity of respect for the rights acquired by the party is an expression of the principle of legal certainty, as an integral part of the broad principle of rule of law, and would be violated by the regulation of a longer period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91656	It's obvious, Mr. Hrelja, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91657	Just a little attention, please. It's a test of your advice. We have 134,000 disability pensions. If we estimate that 005 to 05% have false pensions, it means some 60-600 fake pensions, and we're setting them a deadline here for their revision, i.e., a deadline after which we'll make them untouchable. And for a year and a half, we chair the EU and one of our principles is the fight against corruption. I've been proposing for 10 years as a deadline, there is no administrative procedure, there is no deadline set for that deadline, so it's an extraordinary legal drug review, which is very rarely, almost never implemented, but we here, we have a conscience exam, because today we're deciding whether those who are the parasites of the system, who are thieves, frauds, manipulators, will give a peaceful dream after 5 or 10 years. We consider it appropriate for 10 years because it's half the time of our pensioners, i.e., the use of retirement. Therefore, I propose this with open heart, and you vote on your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91658	Thank you. Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment did not receive the required no. votes. We are now going to vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 97 for, 4 abstentions and 3 votes against, passed a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91659	The next item on the agenda is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 336 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Christian Turkalj, State Secretary at the Department of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91660	Respect to the chairman. Dear MPs, you have before you the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial co-operation and criminal matters, between the EU Member States. This is a law passed in order to transpose the provisions of European rules relating to judicial co-operation, it came into force in 2010 1.7.2013. these are 5 amendments. And this law is part of this judicial package that was adopted in this House... Last Friday's home, so it's 7 laws in a row, and it was necessary, since we decided to clean up the Law on State's Attorney's Office, from everything that's not subject to the law on State's Attorney's Office, or what's not an organisational regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this context, the two framework decisions that were in the Law of the State's Attorney's Office had to be transferred to the Law on Judicial Cooperation,... Things with EU Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also took advantage of the opportunity, and certain substantive and technical improvements were made to the law, in order to make better application of the law, as well as the transposition of the directive, which was recently adopted, i.e. last year and relating to the fight against terrorism. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office is scheduled to enter in 1.9 of this year, and in this context it was also necessary for this law to enter on 1.9.2018, so it is proposed. What is most important is that this law actually contributes to strengthening the possibility of justice in the fight against crime of cross-border crime and facilitates, therefore, the exchange of evidence, the exchange of information between judicial institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91661	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I will open the debate, the Club of HDZ Representatives will report for participation in the debate and, on their behalf, will speak representative Marija Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91662	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of state with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll brief on the bill of this law, in front of the HDZ Club. As the State Secretary also said, these are 5 amendments to the law, and the reason for the re-amending is the installation of implementing provisions of the EU Council Framework Decision, of 13.6.2002 on joint investigative teams and Council Framework Decisions of 30 November 2009 on the prevention and settlement of disputes on the exercise of jurisdiction by criminal proceedings, and the implementation of the provisions of Article. 19 paragraph 3 and 4 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on the prevention of terrorism and the replacement of Council Framework Decision 2002/475 and amending Council Decision 2005/671, as that Directive is primarily implemented in criminal law. As a result, the provisions of a material legal nature are too difficult, and the fewer provisions are procedurally legal in nature from the process of this law. Until now, those provisions of the framework decisions have been implemented in the Law on State Attorney's Office, but since it is an organisational law, which regulates the system of the State's attorney's office and, in its scope, should not contain procedural provisions on judicial cooperation and the provisions of the report in this law. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office has laid down that the provisions on the erasure of those provisions will enter into force on 1 September 2018, so it is necessary to adopt this law in order not to create a legal void. This legislative amendment also included the implementation of Directive 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on the prevention of terrorism and the replacement of the Council's Framework Decision in order to bring into force the implementation of that Directive with a deadline for the implementation of the prescribed Directive, which is 8 September of this year. In relation to first reading, Article 12 G has been amended in such a way as to add a new item to the second one which provides for circumstances that are relevant for possible agreement on the unification of the procedure in one Member State when it comes to criminal acts of terrorism. It's also been changed. 31, in a way that a new paragraph 2 is added, which provides that, when refusing to hand over the requested person in connection with the criminal part of terrorism, the same decision is also delivered to the State's attorney, in order to determine jurisdiction in accordance with domestic law. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget and the HDZ Club will support that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91663	Thank you. Representatives' club GLAS, HSU also reported for participation in the debate, MP Vesna Pusic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I will also start by a little bit convincing what is actually changing or happening as a consequence of these amendments and the addition of the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States that have a bit of an unfortunate destiny in this country. It has changed many times, and here I will point to two changes that seem to me to be asked, that is, for which I would ask you at the end of some clarifications. So, simply clarified, it is 3 additional directives that are implemented or introduced into this law plus another amendment. So far, those provisions, which were defined by the Directives 2002, 2009 and 2017, have been part of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office but the Proposer considers them to be cornered. as far as I understand for conceptual reasons applied to relocate to this law. These provisions relate to joint investigation teams, which is one of the Directives of 2002, and then to the decision on the prevention and resolution of jurisdictional disputes in criminal proceedings in 2009 in view of our experience and our situation, because we have an open case in this respect in relation to the Hernardi case and the 2017 Anti-Terrory Directive. The legal provisions resulting from these Directives or decisions are deleted from the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and this erasure should therefore be put in place somewhere else and are settled in this law on judicial cooperation in order to cover that part of the regulations. Therefore, in addition to those three provisions or to the implementation of those three directives or decisions, provisions on a European arrest warrant or on the conduct of the received documentation relating to a European arrest warrant are further regulated. My colleague Jelkovac has mainly described what these amendments and additions are all about, two things seem to me to need some clarification, and here they are particularly interesting to us as a Parliament or as a parliament. So the most interesting newspaper seems to me to define that when refusing to hand over the wanted person for terrorism, it is notifying the State's Attorney's Office to determine jurisdiction in accordance with domestic law. Well, I'd ask the secretary of state and the people of the ministry to explain exactly what it's about, in a known rule for one man a terrorist, for another freedom fighter, so one man terrorist, another man's freedom fighter. What's this about? So, what that means is that the surrender of the wanted person is refused because of terrorism and under what circumstances it occurs, whether it has something to do with the country in which the work was done, whether it has something to do with the time it was done, what it is about and why this provision is so formulated. Another interesting question relates to a European arrest warrant, or as Article 23 which begins with a sentence of police may, in accordance with its powers, be amended, so the police may, in accordance with their powers under the law governing police treatment, arrest the person against whom a European arrest warrant has been issued or an international search has been issued at the request of a Member State. And now that article goes on, there's a series of items and regulations. Now, which means the police can comply with their powers, etc. Arrest the person against whom a European and arrest warrant has been issued? Does this mean the police don't have to arrest the person against whom a European arrest warrant was issued? Given the case I mentioned earlier where Croatia did not have particular results regarding the respect of the European arrest warrant precisely in the case of Hernardi who did not fall asleep and fell into oblivion or actually do not know what happened to him, is that the provision? So is this a provision on which the police may or may not, is this in accordance with their own opinion, is this in line with another European international regulation? Is there more than we can read here, which determines more than a domestic verdict in the case in which a European arrest warrant is issued, is it only a matter of Member State's domestic judgments whether the European arrest warrant will respect it or not? There are later in the text of the law to give different deadlines which I don't think are problematic, which are logical, relatively short, within which if the police decide all this will then happen all those actions that are necessary, so arrest, hearing and everything that follows. However, this initial provision is somewhat vague to me and the law does not make it clear whose assessment it is. Does the European arrest warrant now become something that you can respect and you don't have to? Depending on the assessment of the state or there is something else to be defined or where criteria are defined when a country respects and when it does not respect the European arrest warrant because what it stands here, I think the only thing that can be read is that the basis of domestic judgment respects that warrant and arrests that person against whom it is issued, but if the judgment is different, then it does not have to. Therefore, I pray that we may get further clarifications in these two things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91665	HNS representatives' club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak Representative Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91666	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Very short. So we here actually, as already stated several times, harmonize our legislation. In fact, as has been said so far, a part of this has been regulated by the Law on State Attorneyship which we have changed and so that there is no legal void, and it is foreseen from 1.9 that the existing Law should be governed. Otherwise, this law regulates, so I'm just going to list some things now that we know what we're talking about here as a comprehensive law. Here are only parts of that law being changed. So, here he speaks, as counterpart Pusic said, above all, about the European arrest warrant, the surrender procedure, the order to secure property or evidence, the European order for obtaining evidence, the recognition and execution of orders to withdraw property pensions or cases, the recognition and execution of a decision on fines, the recognition and execution of a sentence of imprisonment or measures involving the withdrawal of liberty, recognition and execution of judgments and decisions which... probationary measures or alternative sanctions, therefore, and recognition of enforcement of precautionary measures and of a European protection order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's something that regulates the whole matter. We are currently implementing European directives here. However, what is important and what is to be said here in such laws, since I see that this is not some current topic, and I know a lot of those who are telling us what the EU, what it is bringing us, is just taking us away, gives us nothing. I think that a lot gives us by the very process of the security of our citizens and the works of the country itself as part of the EU because this is what we are absolutely defining this cooperation better, closer, by different, by different topics. Therefore, both the conduct of a single process and the establishment of a joint research team, the way in which this team is established, therefore the actions, which are relevant rights, therefore, the use of data and evidence. So, the participation of other people in this work, etc. I think that this is extremely important is I say, we all remember the kind of populist talk about our membership as well as we don't need anything, it doesn't bring anything, it's just relationships, and in those real life situations, as far as security is concerned, if it's extremely important for us as a tourist country, so we can't get it out of our minds, so it means that we're part of NATO, if we're talking about military co-operation, but above all both the EU and the cooperation and Europol, and then Europol with Interpol as an older institution, so it's extremely important. And through monitoring and terrorism, first of all, that puts emphasis on all the actions and all that security today that maybe someone understands lightly, and most often in life we just realize what we have when we lose it and don't God let us understand it that way. We've had here and in the last few months a series of other laws that exactly these things are being arranged, when we talked about air traffic management a few months ago, etc. So, synchronising, data transfer, data exchange itself. I think that so far we are going very well and God has made it that way and that we are very good at this issue, a safe country far more than a European average, but it does not come from itself. I'm sure it's a matter of this kind of action and a judicial one, so when we speak both in police, police exchange is important to have all protocols, it's important to establish everything, and it's important that what I'm always saying here and there, work on prevention, not on reaction, but on the prevention of things, and that's exactly what this coordination itself is going to bring us. So when we talk about the EU, let's not just look at how much our obligation is to pay the membership fee, but let's look at everything that brings us both on human rights and on certain human rights, let's say, modern things that we've been through the EU, let's say, we've been forced to introduce something faster than it would come from itself. But first and foremost, as far as the safety of our citizens is concerned, our guests who come here, doing things in certain cases, I think it's very important, and therefore, of course, these laws should, of course, always be included as soon as possible, but first and foremost, to make the public aware of what we get through membership and about security that is not a small matter, especially for a tourist country, let God give us some things we know that if we have a fifth of GDP minority depending on tourism, which would happen to us to have some tectonic disturbances with the whole economy. Here, the HNS Club will, of course, accept these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91667	So State Secretary Christian Turkalj, final word on behalf of the Justice Department. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91668	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs, thank you for asking. So, about the issues about refusing to hand over on a European arrest warrant, this is about situations that are strictly prescribed by the European arrest warrant itself. So when there's one of those situations, for example. if the offence is committed in the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia will refuse extradition and then the documentation will be sent to the DORH and it will be considered a criminal application. So the point here is that we wouldn't have happened, and then there's no epilogue after that. The second part of the question also referred to a European arrest warrant in terms of why we do not have to arrest a person when a European arrest warrant has arrived. So it's a process that lasts, and there's a situation where there's no danger of escape. So, we can, we have a Croatian citizen situation with a Croatian residence in the Republic of Croatia, there is no risk of escape and there is no reason for a person to be detained I don't know, 60 days until the whole procedure is implemented, and the person cooperates and responds to the authorities. I'd say that's when the police and the court will estimate there's no reason to hold back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91669	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91670	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, second reading, P.Z.E. 336. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 127 votes, we have passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91671	The next item of the agenda is - Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons in relation to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or persecuting criminal offences or the execution of criminal sanctions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 350 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91672	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, the Honorable Madam Representatives. On 27 April 2016, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Directive 2016/680 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purpose of preventing the investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions and on the free movement of such data. The Directive aims to lay down rules relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities. These authorities are, for example, police in the first place, but also tax administration, customs administration, may be an office to prevent money laundering, state inspectorate or state inspection. As a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia was obliged to transpose the provisions of that Directive into national legislation, since the transposition of the directive into the applicable regulations would require the amendment of several legal provisions to this proposal, the final proposal for a law intended in a uniform manner to regulate those substances. By subject law, I will repeat briefly only the principles which ensure the achievement and protection of fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, in particular their right to the protection of personal data, regardless of the nationality and residence of the individual. Ensuring a consistent and high level of protection of individual personal data and facilitating the exchange of personal data between competent authorities of Member States is crucial to ensure effective police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. For this purpose, the level of protection of the rights and freedom of individuals related to the processing of personal data should be the same in all Member States. The rules on the protection of natural persons shall apply to the processing of personal data by automated means, as well as to manual processing if such data are stored or intended to be stored in a particular storage system. The documents or sets of documents as well as their title pages which are not structured according to specific criteria would not be covered by the scope of this Act. The final draft of the law differs only in articles, so Article 13(6) and Article 40(4) are different, so it is generally a matter of nomotechnical editing of these articles on the proposal of the working body of this House. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91673	Thank you. Councilman Curray asked for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91674	Here, thank you, Vice President. I am only interested in a special clarification in Article 11 of the special categories of personal categories. When it comes to data relating to racial or ethnic origin, political position, religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of unique identification of subjects or data relating to health, sex life or sexual orientation of subjects. So we're talking about the very most personal data of every person. It therefore states that processing is normally prohibited, but immediately the following paragraph says that the processing of the data referred to in paragraph 1 is authorised if the processing of personal data is necessary for the purpose of the exercise of the rights and obligations of the controller under this law or specific regulations. So it's normally forbidden, unless the processing manager is allowed to do it. I think you should just explain that article if you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91675	The reply to the replica State Secretary Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91676	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, that, therefore, this information that you have provided is not allowed to be processed specifically, except under paragraph 2 of this article. It is permitted to process them when these particulars have been broken, so when processing or carrying out such data, they form the basis for a criminal offence or commit crimes. So when these protected values are violated by a certain action, by a practice, then they are allowed to be processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91677	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The HDZ advocates' club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak Agent Angelko Striker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91678	My colleagues and colleagues. This final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons with regard to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or persecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions, shall bring the Croatian legislation in line with the European Directive, EU 2016/680 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities in order to prevent the investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions and on the free movement of such data. The protection and confidentiality of personal data is one of the personal freedoms and rights of each individual guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article. 37. The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights of Article 8(1) and the Treaty on the Functioning of Eu Article 16, Article 1, which determines that each person is entitled to the protection of his or her personal data. Due to rapid technological development, globalisation, digitisation, which result in facilitating the movement of persons, goods and capital and an increasing and faster exchange of information, new challenges have emerged in the protection of personal data, and the scope of the collection and exchange of personal data has increased significantly. The free exchange of personal data between competent authorities for the purpose of preventing research, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions, including protection against and prevention of public security threats within the EU, and the transfer of such personal data to third countries and international organisations should be facilitated while ensuring a high level of protection of personal data. These changes require the construction of an effective and more coherent legal framework for the protection of EU personal data that needs to be implemented consistently. Ensuring a consistent and high level of protection of individual personal data and facilitating the exchange of personal data between competent authorities of Member States is crucial to ensure effective judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters. Any processing of personal data must be legal, fair and transparent in relation to the natural persons to whom it applies. The subject should be informed of the risks, safeguards and rights associated with the processing of their personal data and the way in which their rights are exercised. Specific purposes for the processing of specific data should be taxed by law, as well as conditions for the subject to the exercise of the right without compensation and in an easily accessible manner, in particular the right to access to personal data, their correction or erasure, and the restriction of processing. The controller should also set time limits for erasure or periodic review. Article 8 provides that when processing personal data as necessary, as far as possible, the competent authority must ensure a clear distinction between the personal data of different categories of subjects such as: 1.- Persons suspected of committing or committing a criminal offence. 2.- Persons legally convicted of a criminal offence. 3. - Victims of a crime. 4.- People who have knowledge of the offence committed. Where personal data are found to be incorrect or illegally transmitted, the recipient shall be informed without delay and personal data must be corrected, deleted or restricted by processing. The processing of personal data relating to racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of unique identification of subjects or data relating to health, sex life or sexual orientation of subjects, unless processing is necessary in order to protect the life or body integrity of subjects or other persons. The subject or persons authorised to represent him may object to the supervisory authority if they consider that they are subject to any right guaranteed by this law. By acting on the complaint, the supervisory authority will carry out an appropriate procedure to inform the applicant of the outcome. The supervisory authority shall decide on the outcome of the procedure by means of a solution. No appeal may be brought against the Authority's solution, but an administrative dispute may be brought before the competent administrative court. I note that the provisions of this Act do not apply to activities relating to national security, the activities of agencies or services in charge of the issue of national security. In conclusion, every step towards raising standards in the protection of personal data is welcome. Following the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this Final Proposal for the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91679	Thank you. HNS representatives' club also reported for participation in the dispute. In their name will speak MP Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91680	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, very briefly. Just a few more things, maybe clarifications. So, I think that in the last few months we have become aware of the protection of personal data through famous GDPR, therefore the General Data Protection Regulation. So that means regulation actually protects personal data and this law actually sets out the principles that ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution are protected, which means that as far as personal data are concerned. However, whenever we talk about the protection of personal data and security, we come up with two conflicting things. In fact, we here aim at this Law to, of course, detect and prosecute criminal offences, enforce criminal sanctions, etc. and the protection and threat of public security, their prevention within the EU itself, then exactly the transfer of such personal data to third countries and international organisations is good and should be facilitated while at the same time, I say again that is the obstacle part, while ensuring a high level of protection of personal data. So whenever there's something we want to be more accessible, we want to get information, it's faster, it's also increasing the risk and the necessary measures to protect these data from self-abuse. So, I think that in each case, a lot of our data is already on purpose, which is unwittingly available to us from consumer habits and all other habits that we have as citizens and as persons, people based on these data they even pay for these data, if we talk about consumer habits, are creating projections for various trade chains, etc. Of course, all that data is used for security purposes. And now we're talking about better co-operation, police cooperation, and to better ensure both effective judicial and police co-operation in criminal matters. And of course, when I talk about what I was talking about earlier, about increasing security that is not to be easily understood, that has its reasons and why, but at the same time effective protection of personal data throughout the EU when we talk about GDPR and rights themselves, then if you want respondents, etc. I think they need to know what personal data is being processed and, of course, what are the powers of the bodies that collect them, and that's what I mean is something new that brought us the GDPR itself. But I repeat that this limit is always enough, let's say flexible, that sometimes we can know, let's say that the state knows or the organs that follow a lot more about us than we would want and enter into some personality. Of course, it's all on that side of one of those, let's say we have a negative relationship with that way and data collection and use. However, we must be aware that all this data is also used for the safety of all of us again, and I do not have to mention it once again as a tourist country means that such security is guaranteed to us. So I always mention and appeal to these let's say when we enable better communication, discrimination between different bodies within our country and with other authorities from other countries, that it is always important to take care of the security and transfer of these data itself and that it is extremely important, and that this law is affected by it, and that's what we need to be aware of, this border and our privacy, and our security. Because when security is threatened, then no one asks you for privacy, and when it's all safe, then privacy is very important to us each and every one of us. And that's where we always have to balance, and we never have to go to any extremes. The extremities are not good or excessive as far as the data itself is concerned by the use that has nothing to do with it, perhaps neither benefits with the safety itself nor on the other side to let anything happen to us and think nothing can happen to us, and it has nothing to do with us and to get to sleep and to sneak in until it comes to God's not giving up something that could possibly be over-ventilated. I say again, prevention is the key to everything. So just finally, I think this law regulates, and that is good, that any processing of personal data that it must be legal, fair and transparent in relation to the natural persons to which it applies and only for the purposes of a particular law. This is what the key is and what I would underline once again, so that even natural persons should be familiar with risks and safeguards and rights related to the processing of their data, that they are aware of what they give, why they give and how they can be used and, of course, to the exercise of their rights. Of course I can say one more time and on behalf of the club we will support this final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons. However, I like to point out countless times that it will always come to someone why you are looking for my data, why you need it, so it is right to regulate it through GDPR where exactly what, how, where and who will, what you say is left to the individual in free choice to give these data for the purpose of getting some service, product or anything else, but of course through other measures that we collect data when we talk about air traffic safety and everything else, which is coming, because we need to be aware that safety is very fragile and that we practically appreciate it when we lose it, and that God never lets it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91681	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91682	Final proposal of the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons with regard to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of preventing, research, racing or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions, other reading, P.Z.E. No. 350. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. I am voting to mention the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 123 votes for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Protection of Physical Persons in relation to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or persecuting criminal offences or the execution of criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91683	The next item is - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, first reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Maja Markovčić-Kostelec, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and Madam Representatives. You have before you the law on amendments to the Law on the investigation of accidents in air, maritime and rail transport. This agency was established in 2013 by adopting a law with a basic purpose of determining the cause of maritime accidents to prevent its re-emergence, i.e. to improve traffic safety at all. In the figures of 2017, this Agency received a total of 1012 reports on events related to traffic safety, from which in 23 cases it launched an investigation into aircraft accidents, 2 with fatalities. In maritime transport, the Agency conducted a total of 12 eyewitnesses in 2017 and launched 7 security investigations and carried out 39 eyewitnesses in rail transport and in 11 cases carried out an investigation into an accident in railway transport. One of the important tasks of the agency is to make security recommendations, so three security recommendations were issued in the past year, based on investigations into accidents in the area of air accidents. In the field of maritime transport 1 safety recommendations and in the area of rail transport 11 safety recommendations. In relation to the law that is before you, it is technical in nature and these amendments are, in fact, further harmonising the law with the acquis of the EU, in particular Directive 2009/18 EC in the work relating to the financing of the Agency. Namely, one of the basic characteristics of the Agency is its independence and, in the course of its financing, transparency and independence must be highlighted in particular. Another important feature of these amendments to the law concerns the possibility of involving independent experts in carrying out an accident investigation. The agency itself employs only 7 employees and in serious accident research, it is important to engage as many specialized experts as possible, which will enable this law to effectively strengthen the administrative capacities of the agency itself. From the above, we propose the adoption of this law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91685	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ advocates' club reported for participation in the debate. I apologize, that's right, two replicas, Agent Curray reporting for a replica of the secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91686	Thank you, Vice President. So I'm curious about when we talk about the Agency for Transport Accidents, first of all I don't think we can mention in the recent history of one of the most serious railway accidents in Croatia, so we're talking about 2009 in the Rudins when 6 people died and 55 lost or injured, I'm interested, now we have this epilogue of justice, it's already been 9 years, now it's the 9th anniversary, if we say in the recent history of Croatia the most difficult accidents when we exclude the one on the Zagreb station. I'm interested in the agency, what was the role of the agency in the investigation of this accident, we know that there was a legal dispute, and now I don't know at what stage it ended up in, and I don't know if the power of attorney was obtained and how certain lessons were learned in that accident itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91687	The reply to the replica is Secretary of State Kostelac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91688	Thank you. As you yourself stated, the accident occurred in 2009, this agency was founded in 2013, so here we are talking about another legal context. The second thing, the agency, as I said, is investigating the causes of the accident to improve the state of security, it does not determine responsibility. The responsibility shall be determined in independent other judicial proceedings, whether criminal or criminal proceedings are involved and the Agency itself shall establish the causes of the accident and shall provide adequate security barriers. As I said, this agency has been investigating railway accidents ever since it was established, but there have been as many as 11 security barriers addressed to the ministry's work and to the need to adopt security activities or beyond in the legislative and operational segment and the ministry has reacted by adopting a development strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91689	State Secretary, time's up, sorry. Representative Dark Taritash has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91690	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you said in your statement that there are 7 employees of the agency and that among other things this amendment and the addition of the law refer to the possibility to activate certain advisory bodies. Given the agency's role in examining the causes and the need to strengthen the individual system, I am interested in these 7 employees around which they are composed. I assume that this idea of changing the law that goes in the direction that experts can activate is going on the trail that you fail to get in the agency the right people and probably about receiving, so maybe just in a few sentences to explain it and explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91691	The reply to the replica is Secretary of State Kostelac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91692	I thank you for this question. So if we're talking about the relationship between administrative and professional staff at the agency, then only one administrative person works at the agency, everything else is experts in a particular transport area plus, of course, the director of the agency. This need for the involvement of experts is exactly the way in which we will respond most effectively to occasional requirements for the involvement of expert staff because a large agency that would employ a permanent number or a large number of experts would not actually respond effectively to what is necessary because any accident unfortunately carries a person's need for expertise in a technical sense in a particular area and it is important then to hire experts who are exactly specialists in this area, so we think that this ad hoc principle is the most effective in which the agencies will naturally have the databases of experts from which they can engage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91693	Thank you. With this I open the debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club reported for participation in the debate, acting on their behalf will be represented by MP Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91694	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, the distinguished Proposer, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents was adopted in 2013. At that time, European legislation required the establishment of an independent body to investigate accidents despite air traffic accidents, as required in rail and maritime transport. That's why the existing air traffic accident research agency took over the activities of maritime and rail accident research at the time of 2013 and, therefore, with a five-year delay, we can commend that decision, which established only one agency to carry out disaster research activities in all 3 transport sectors and in Croatia, but I think we have too many agencies and here, I think it was justified to establish only one agency, that this is one rational decision. The 2013 law was established organisationally, meaning financial independence and the founder of the agency is the Republic of Croatia while the founding rights are exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The agencies are mainly financed from the taxpayer budget and it is important to point out that this is by no means one of the agencies whose work could be carried out by a ministry or a state body because the EU acquis recognises only an independent expert body as a relevant accident research body. The Agency’s website makes it clear that the Agency’s task is to conduct investigations to identify the cause of the accident and to make safety recommendations with a view to preventing them in the future and not to determine the guilt or responsibilities of the individual for the purpose of their prosecution. The objectivity in its opinions and causes of the accident is crucial and it is therefore extremely important that the investigation of the accident is carried out by an entirely independent body which deals exclusively with this activity and the justification of this agency is certainly unquestionable. It is therefore important for the Agency to be functionally and organisationally independent with all bodies responsible for air, maritime and rail transport and of all legal and physical persons with whom it could come into conflict of interest. The Agency shall carry out security of the investigation with a view to identifying accidents with regard to the issue of a safety recommendation and, on the basis of the findings carried out by security investigations, establishing the facts and circumstances of the particular event on the basis of the information collected and analysed. I would repeat that security investigations are not conducted to determine the individual's guilt and responsibility, but to prevent accidents in the future. The Agency may also investigate those accidents and incidents which, under slightly different circumstances, could lead to serious accidents, thus affecting the improvement of traffic safety in these 3 sectors. Something about the security recommendations was also said by the State Secretary in this year 2018, I would refer to the three figures that were available by 2017 from 2013 to 2017. In air traffic, 19 safety recommendations were issued, only 3 were implemented in maritime transport, 9 recommendations were issued until 2017, none were implemented until the end of 2017, and 34 recommendations were issued by the end of 2017, of which 8 were implemented. I believe that these security recommendations are professional and related exclusively to the prevention of future adverse events, accidents and of course improvements in security in these 3 traffic visions. Therefore, such an agency is certainly needed and we know that accidents occur, unfortunately not only material damage but accidents occur with a number of injuries and fatal outcomes. As we have heard, since 2013 this is the first amendment and addition of this law, the proposed amendments and additions no longer foresees the possibility of funding the work of the agency from other sources such as donations, funds etc., in fact, it is unclear how there was at all the possibility of funding the work of the agency from other sources besides the state budget, the independence of such a body is the basis for the objectivity of its opinion and there must be no possibility of influence on that opinion either through sponsorship or various donations of funds or in some other way. This is why the provisions of Article 13(2) of the law in question as already stated by the applicant, namely the European Maritime Safety Agency, proposed to delete this provision, as such funding could jeopardise the independence of the Agency’s work and thus bring it into line with the provisions of Directive 2009/18 of the EC. We feel that the proposal is fully justified and I ask myself why the European Agency had to react, why could we not have seen this possible failure on our own? What we can now accept is the proposed one, especially when we know how important it is not to disrupt independence in the work of such an agency, and there must already be any manipulation and controversy in the beginning. Further to this proposal for a law, further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU in the field of maritime transport and railway safety research, the obligation to conduct an investigation in the railway system by the Agency is established to further ensure further transposition of this Directive into the Law on Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System. The proposed amendments and additions to the law of the Agency also provide for the possibility of using experts to investigate accidents in the framework of permanent or occasional expert advisory bodies in each of the areas of the investigation of accidents from its jurisdiction, for their work it is necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget, an estimate of these additional resources is based on the average of the 50 new investigations so far and this is an additional 90 million kuna to be provided from the state budget annually. It is good that this bill prescribes new provisions concerning the prohibition of the prevention and obstruction of the official work of the Agency as well as infringement provisions for such actions. Finally, I can only conclude that the role of the agency is significant, we need to ensure the independence of the body leading the security investigations to determine the cause of the accident but also in investigations of extraordinary events that, under certain circumstances, can lead to serious accidents. We also need an agency that proposes measures to avoid maritime accidents and improve navigation safety as well as measures to increase rail and air traffic safety, so the HDZ Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91695	Thank you. The club of GLAS and HSU representatives also called for participation in the debate, on their behalf will speak MP Mrak Taritas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91696	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an amendment to the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic in the first reading. It is about the agency which was founded in 2013, at the time we adapted the legislation to EU legislation and it was equally necessary to set up individual agencies, one of those agencies that we had an obligation to do is this agency. These amendments and additions to the law that are here after 5 years are actually in line with EU legislation relating to certain things that have been established, of course there has been a dispute regarding the way of funding and it is logical that this funding that was from donors has been abolished and what the introductory state secretary said, we today have an agency with 7 employees and they will, if necessary, activate experts. It is a model that is absolutely acceptable, and in the context of that, our club will also support in the first reading of this law and most likely there will be no major changes, so given that we will not have any problems in this direction or support in the second reading, but of course we will never know what can happen between the first and second readings. So it's a good model where, for certain jobs, you activate the experts you have on the ground, which you activate at a certain point. What is the role and importance of the agency? The role and importance of the Agency is that through the research process, it sees what the gaps are, it has an advisory role, and in this sense not only should certain drafts of the law be changed, but in this regard individual practices should also be changed. We can see from the title that this agency deals with air, sea and rail accidents. And we can't talk about this agency so we don't actually touch the essence of things. When it comes to air traffic, that traffic, in that traffic, we have, of course, and now, especially in the summer period, we have an increased number of planes, we have private planes, we have different things, and there we have to adapt to the conditions that are both in terms of the law and in terms of what we can possibly see, which is our problem. It's recently on one of our islands, it's about Zlarin, one of the craftsmen was falling down, it naturally caused a bigger problem for all the customers who were, and they said that when it fell down, some parts of it, we later saw, through the media, that it was managed by someone who was expert on it. So this indicates the fact that in air traffic you have different traffic, i.e. those who participate and it is a question of their quality, i.e. the issue of all the certificates they have and I assume that after these surveys, the agency will make some conclusions that are related to the actual quality of traffic, or those involved in air traffic. Two, so something that is tradition in Croatia is this maritime traffic. In maritime transport, what happens in the Adriatic Sea and the Adriatic Sea you must look at in the context of actually one slightly larger bay because compared to world waters is the Mediterranean, it is not enough, so that one sea and the Adriatic is one bay that has specific conditions so that any maritime accident that happens you must look at from the aspect of environmental protection and from the aspect of the consequences that arises. We recently had two cases that were quite interesting, one case was a ship that absolutely proved to be unacceptable in its technical characteristics and there was action and rescue and rescue in the port where it turned out that the ship that was sailing was, I think, under the Turkish flag, that I said well caused a traffic problem. And then behind that we had in Rasa Bay as well, actually one accident which, when it comes to the Adriatic Sea, absolutely in terms of environmental protection, in terms of protecting certain conditions in the sea is very dangerous and there is for sure and effort and advice and that should be to go in this direction because one serious, therefore even more serious than this, one accident that happens can permanently disrupt the ecological system of the Adriatic Sea and I don't need to tell you what it means for a country which is based on tourism on its GDP. Any country that is more than 20% based, its GDP based on tourism, has a problem because terrorism should generate some other things. And the third topic is rail traffic. Accidents that, here the other day, I think it was yesterday that in Zagreb on the Hendrix Bridge, a pedestrian died. Did he die on purpose, accidentally, that's hard to say. And when you look at a little accident that happens in rail traffic, then it's usually accidents and generally at unmarked railway crossings or so on. Passage points. And that's about the fact on the one hand that we're treating the railroad. And it should therefore be concluded, therefore, that countries that want to take a step in terms of their economy, countries that want to make a step in terms of being interesting investors among other things have to offer when it comes to transport, so what is a railway is an advantage, large cities and some other parts of Europe are developing on this railway development is an advantage, because in terms of safety, in terms of good availability, it does not depend on traffic congestion in terms of road traffic, so it is a railway and it is a fast Internet, these are some things that investors recognise as an advantage of a particular country. The fast Internet has nothing to do with this, but the railroad does. When you look at the main accident happening at the railway crossings where we still have the unmarked ones, that is to say that we have not seriously been caught up in the process of having one quick railroad and that in fact there is one axle that we have east-west of Zagreb towards the east, that is, from Zagreb to the south, that is, this Hungary that was made towards the Rijeka port pool that it is still obsolete, that it is still slow, that it is still inefficient and logical that this kind of accident is happening on railway traffic. So from one of these analyses, this would actually allow us to conclude and what we're all saying is that in the next period, priority should be really rebuilding the railway line, when you make a quality rail network, when it works and when you have a system or underpass or overpass through it, or you don't have that contact of two modes of traffic anymore, then you can use it to transport fast trains that are the usual thing. I'm not going to talk about China, Japan because it's a distant country, but the usual thing in Europe. From the debate on changing and supplementing the law which is actually harmonizing with the actual state of affairs, it is also important to ask about all the problems we have in air traffic, as well as to highlight what we have in maritime transport, which is always read in addition to the ecological disaster, and when it comes to rail transport, it should indeed be the interest, interest of our country, the interest of a further economic perspective. This means a high-quality and fast rail network that can be made very clear within miles of how much it is needed and how you actually become desirable or become a destination that is very close to other EU countries. When it comes to our road network then it is a network of highways and roads of good category, we can be among the first in Europe, but when it comes to the rail network towards the last of us, and therefore it is no wonder that when accidents are in rail traffic, we are in fact measuring them unfortunately in the number of deaths, and this indicates the fact that the development of the railway should also be the priority of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91697	Thank you. The club of HNS representatives also reported for participation in the debate, on their behalf will be represented by a representative of Bernarda Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91698	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing an Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic, P.Z.E. No. 383. At the beginning, I note that the HNS Club will support the proposed amendments to the law. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, adopted in 2013, was established by the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents and was regulated by its activity, management, means of establishment and other issues for its work. The Agency has 8 employees, headed by the Agency and managed by the Administrative Board of 3 members, one of whom is the President of the Governing Council, the new meeting of the Governing Council was appointed by the competition on 15 January 2018. The members and chairman of the Governing Council shall receive monthly fees for their work. True, there is no record on the website how many sessions were held any year so that we can see if it is three sessions and receive an annual fee or at least a session each month. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law establishing the Agency providing for the possibility of financing the work of the Agency from other sources, such as grants, funds and the like, is further in line with Directive 2009/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the investigation of accidents in maritime transport and amending Council Directive 1999/35/EC and Directive 2002/59 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe. As can be seen from the applicant’s explanation, the European Maritime Safety Agency, or EMSA, carried out surveillance during the period from 2 to 5 May 2017 and identified the discrepancies of the article in question and proposed to delete the possibility of funding the Agency’s work from the grant of funds and the like, since such funding could jeopardise the independence of the Agency’s work. This bill amending the law has a dozen articles, while the original is somewhat wider, it has only 28 articles. The second article relating to the existing Article 5 states that the Agency is functionally and organisationally independent of all bodies responsible for air, maritime and rail transport and of all legal and natural persons. Provisions establishing a legal framework for unlimited professional work and the independence of the Agency shall be prescribed, i.e. prohibiting and obstructing official actions taken by the Agency and its investigators in accordance with the powers conferred on them by this law and other regulations governing the investigation of accidents in air, maritime and rail transport. It is also prohibited to have any form of influence on the independent professional work of the Agency and its investigators. If the Agency's work is financed from donations, it is difficult to expect its transparency. Article 3 states that research into serious accidents in rail transport as exceptional events that could lead to serious accidents under certain circumstances is also changing: research of any serious accident in the rail system and possible research and those accidents and incidents that could have led to serious accidents under slightly different circumstances, including technical failures of structural subsystems or constituent parts of interoperability, i.e. the ability of the rail system to safely and continuously traffic trains, while achieving the required degree of efficiency of the railway system. The Agency’s report shows that 29 accidents were processed in 2015, in 2016 15ak, in 2017. 25, and this year so far there are 9 accidents, both in air, rail or maritime transport. The ministry plans about 50 new open investigations at agency level this year, we hope it will be less. In its reports, the Agency has qualified some reports or accidents as serious, and some do not. We think that every accident is serious, whether it's about a road crash or an accident at an airport, a station, a spring crossing, a port or an open sea. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4. of the existing Law, which states, among other things, that the proposal of the Law which, among other things, states that the Agency has three main investigators, one for each area, that the investigator must have an official identity card prescribed by the Minister, and now this proposal defines the amendment and addition of the Law as having the official badge and the official badge prescribed by the Minister by the Regulation, and defines the form, content and procedure of issuing, returning, confiscation and keeping records of the official badge and the identity of the investigators of the Agency. In Article 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: The 11th Fundamental Law defines that the Agency may have permanent and occasional expert advisory bodies, whose members have the right to compensation for work, which is determined by the Statute of the Agency. It is necessary to refer to and add that members should be entitled to compensation on the basis of their presence at the session or on the basis of the work carried out, not monthly as members of the boards of directors. These amendments are also subject to penalties from 2000 to 10 thousand kuna for natural and legal persons in the event of interference or non-implementation of the Law. It is also provided that within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Agency or the Administrative Council of the Agency shall adopt a new Statute in accordance with this Act and the Minister shall adopt the Regulation referred to in Article in the same period. 4 or the official badge, and for that time remains in force, the old Regulation. As mentioned at the outset, the HNS Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91699	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91700	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 383. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Traffic 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous to 128 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91701	The next item is: - Proposal for a Law on the implementation of projects of the European Union's international institutional cooperation and technical assistance projects. First reading, P.Z.E. No. 388. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ms. Andreja Metelko-Zgombic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Allow me to present to you the proposal for a Law on the implementation of projects of international and institutional cooperation between the EU and technical assistance projects. Today, as a full member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has the ability to transfer knowledge and experience from the field of taking over and implementing EU acquis to third countries through projects of international institutional cooperation and technical assistance projects. When we talk about these projects, we're talking about twinning... , as well as other technical cooperation projects which the Republic of Croatia used extensively during its accession process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The interest in the participation of Croatian public bodies and state bodies and Croatian experts is extremely high, and the knowledge and experience of Croatian experts are particularly sought, appreciated among the countries of users, especially in the countries of our neighborhoods. In short, participation in such projects would benefit from Croatian knowledge, Croatian experience, the visibility of the Republic of Croatia, its institutions and Croatian experts would also increase the importance and impact of the Republic of Croatia in countries that are recipients of such assistance. The aim of this Law is to unify this important area in a comprehensive and systematic way. So far, there has been no formal, legal framework for the participation of our institutions and our experts. The benefits are also the benefits of multiple. I'd say they're being shown in both political and financial terms. As far as the political plan is concerned, such participation by the Republic of Croatia and its experts strengthens the existing ties and partnership between Croatia and the beneficiary countries and increases forms of cooperation, with the presence of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia as those providing technical assistance. This would also allow modernisation of strengthening the capacity of the Croatian state administration itself through such projects, and would, above all, become stronger and more visible and expertise for Croatian experts who have gained extensive experience and great knowledge for years of negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU. When it comes to financial benefits, it should be said that these programmes are exactly the way that the Republic of Croatia could in some way return the money invested in the EU budget for such projects. Namely, the cheap Twinning project can bring up to 1 million euros, often more. And such a legislative framework will facilitate the participation of Croatian bodies in such projects. So far, Croatia has participated in 19 Twinning projects and compared to 8 countries of users and 764 activities within ta-ex. Technical assistance so far has not been possible for Croatian bodies, and this is precisely the law that will open that possibility. With effective participation in these projects, and with the strengthening of institutional cooperation, this law and participation of Croatian institutions and experts in such projects can encourage and strengthen cooperation in other areas, including procurement and goods and services, there is therefore a door, not only to Croatian competent institutions, then to all other participants from the Republic of Croatia, in those countries where Croatian experts, Croatian institutions, there is a brand that is recognizable for quality. In the end, I would just like to say that such projects will also motivate Croatian employees in public administration bodies, where they will be able to promote, their skills, their experiences and in some way make good quality progress during their work in the state service and will be reduced, I would say, and the outflow of quality personnel from the Republic of Croatia. We conclude that the adoption of this law will allow for a more efficient, more competitive and competitive implementation of international projects by Croatian institutions and will strengthen the use of EU funding. This will confirm Croatia, in the framework of promoting the EU's general values, as a valuable member of the EU which also offers quality personnel to assist countries in the neighbourhood, and, of course, it is also an integral part of Croatia's foreign policy and an essential component of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in our neighbourhood. Following the above, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91703	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The HDZ representative's club reported for participation in the debate, MP Davor Ivo Stier will speak on their behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the State Secretary and Associate from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that regulates the participation of Croatian institutions and Croatian experts in EU projects, which can be implemented together with other EU members, and users are countries preparing for EU membership, or are countries from the European neighbourhood. Of course, Croatia is already participating in cooperation and assistance projects, especially in Southeast Europe, here, we heard from the secretary of state, in 19... The projects Croatia participates, the more the 10th, or 100 taex projects, in the short term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example. I would mention here and one case, to us, the neighbouring BiH when Commissioner Johannes... 2016 brought to Sarajevo a questionnaire for possible BBiH candidate status for EU member only 2 years ago. After that, Croatian experts have already worked together with colleagues from the BIH in meeting the questionnaire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this example shows how our experts are involved and how the Republic of Croatia actively participates in such assistance programmes in Southeast Europe. It is known that before Croatia became a member of the EU, the countries of Southeast Europe, Croatia entered the Croatian translation of the EU acquis and that is one of the more famous forms of co-operation. And there are unfair and bilateral agreements with the countries of our neighbourhood that are preparing for EU membership. However, what was missing? It was not necessary to institutionally regulate the implementation of projects with clearly regulated roles of various bodies, state administrations, with rights and obligations of officials participating in such projects. And that's now being arranged by this bill of law that the government is giving us. For example, it is determined. that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs will be a national contact point for projects of international institutional cooperation, as well as a way in which information from the European Commission will be produced, what will be the decision-making process for participation in certain projects, which are the rights and obligations of Croatian experts and all other elements of importance for this field of work. In the case of Twinning as an EU instrument for institutional cooperation between the body and the public administration, one Member State, one country preparing for membership, as well as in the case of the taex project as a short-term technical assistance instrument, Croatia could in all cases benefit from the transfer of knowledge to other countries in the application of the implementation of the acquis. In addition to forming bilateral relations through such projects, Croatia also gets a much better insight and, if you want, an impact on the development of the process in the neighbouring region of Southeast Europe, thus strengthening the relations of other members of the European Union with which it implements joint twing projects. As pointed out in the reasoning of the law, such forms of cooperation lead to the creation of long-term links between institutions that prove to be very important in their daily work, as well as the frequent joint appearance towards third countries. Not even the motivation of our own staff should be ignored here in both financial and professional terms because of participation in twing and taiex projects. Finally, it must also be pointed out that by taking over such cooperation projects from the European Union, the funds from the European budget are used to pay Croatian experts and to cover the costs of Croatian institutions that would transfer knowledge to the countries of Southeast Europe. Of course, better knowledge of this area is the absence of language barriers in most cases, and this makes it all easier to work in all levels of the public administration of candidate countries. The fact is that Croatia has recently gone through accession negotiations and has fresh experience on this process, and all of this increases the competitiveness of our institutions and our experts in taking over twing and taiex projects. As much as this proposal for a law contributes in a very concrete way to strengthening the position of the Republic of Croatia within the European Union and in the neighbouring region of Southeast Europe and will therefore be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91705	Thank you. Representatives' club Glas HSU also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by MP Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91706	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Good law, good initiative. All you have to do is make sure that something that's good and works doesn't spoil by excessive norms. So, the fact is that Croatia acquired considerable intellectual capital in the process of negotiations with the European Union and, of course, in a later debate or life with those laws, the institutions that we brought or built during the negotiations and where we could and could assess what worked, which we did not. So we already have a certain experience that could and should be corrected and better regulated. In order to use this intellectual capital, we have established a centre of excellence in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. So, gathered people who participated immediately after entering the European Union, people who participated in the negotiations, given that Croatia was one of the few countries, so I think one of the two countries that used negotiations and experts and people outside the institutions of the state administration. So, we used people from the academic community, institutes, chambers of commerce, wider than what are only close employees of the state administration. This proved to be good and useful, and certainly very applicable to so-called. ...booked 6 or so for these countries that they have I would say more or less guaranteed entry into the European Union, it is only a matter of when, in what order and at which stage of transformation. For now, some 2025 framework date is like some first date when it could happen for everyone or at least for some. Given that they are increasingly or less similar, by size slightly larger or most less per capita than us, it is obvious that they will have to use everything and will be favourable and good for a number of reasons to use experts who are outside the direct state administration in the negotiations or in the reforms and transformations that are needed to institutionally equip to say so for membership or for the start of functioning in these frameworks. In the activities that the Centre of Excellence worked through the end of 2015, between 3 and 4 thousand therefore, I no longer remember the exact number, but therefore officials and officials from the countries with which we collaborated. These were mostly the countries of this region. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo, Albania, but it was also Moldova and there were also some countries which, for example, did not seem to have much interest in building institutional infrastructure, interest in building a state. Because as we have many times concluded, in fact, this whole process of membership negotiations is a kind of structured process of building institutions and states preferably and faster than it would have happened in itself, waiting not only without a focused goal, but also a structured experience of the Member States of the European Union right in this process. So, from that point of view, that knowledge that has been acquired here regardless of the passage of time and, of course, everyone who is the last to negotiate always thinks that it is the hardest and in some way has the right. We have always claimed that our negotiations are harder than others. The negotiations of our neighbours and the countries that follow us are also more difficult, it will be harder than ours because, of course, the institutions of the European Union learn from previous experiences and therefore introduce some new criteria or some new mechanisms, controls. Let's just say one example, we had those criteria... criteria, so the criteria we had to start opening and closing the opening, and they now have those criteria in the negotiation process itself, so they can add some criteria or some additional criteria during the negotiations themselves depending on the assessment of European institutions. However, the fact is that many of the experiences our people have gained in this negotiation process is precious, is the intellectual capital that Croatia has and should treat as intellectual capital. Which means, in the context of this let's say the project started in 2013 which is now formalized here through this law should be envisaged and the gathering of these people who are not in the state administration. Some are scattered by private institutions, some are scattered by state institutions but not part of the administration in this classical sense of the word, some are scattered around the world as we know it. In a way, some gathering point should be organized for these people, they all respond happily, they are happy to participate in this kind of knowledge transfer and this kind of project. Not only when it is twing and... projects but when some kind of collaboration and transfer of knowledge is initiated by the Republic of Croatia. So here I think you should absolutely try these people as I would say, keep together, or keep in communication with our state administration precisely because their knowledge is the Croatian intellectual capital that should be used. I can add that we have had both interest and potential for greater interest in this kind of knowledge and this kind of expertise and cooperation from countries that have neither at all reflect nor are in any situation to eventually become members of the European Union. Let's say from some North African states, Morocco is one example that comes to mind. But they are in the process of building state institutions and have a natural interest in working with the European Union and they are interested in taking some knowledge of what I know, in forming regulatory agencies, in some kind of legislation that applies, for example. on food products and quality control of the quality of food products as they are interested in trade with the European Union. So there are a whole series of countries that are neither theoretically speaking nor geographically, let's say, candidates for members but are candidates for this kind of knowledge and experience, and I think it should be possible in that group that this kind of knowledge that our people have acquired in these 12 long years of approaching membership, and then also now in membership itself. We are from the fact of membership for many things that seemed to be good when they were passed as rules or laws, meanwhile we managed to find that something works, something doesn't, something does, something doesn't. And from that point of view, it is a valuable experience for them to do things without a method of trial and error but simply using our experience in this regard. My only warning in this case goes in the direction that do not make something that worked well and which is without further a good idea absolutely has no doubt about it and I would say one really precious thing that Croatia has because for small countries is actually the most precious of all that has brains and knowledge in its people's heads. That excessive regulation actually makes it difficult for one job that was already going well, and then, of course, it decreased a little bit, but without further ado, it needs to be further developed. In other words, do not let that situation be applied in which when something has turned into a law, then de facto law puts much more obstacles to this type of activity than it has ever been when it was simply implemented as part of foreign policy and in general part of the country's policy. For foreign policy, of course, there is no doubt that this is a very important and useful instrument and in the following law it is somehow attached to this and is further expanding which is absolutely good and important. Therefore, with this warning, club GLASS and HSU will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91707	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91708	Proposal for a law on the implementation of projects of international institutional cooperation between the EU and technical assistance projects, first reading, P.Z. No. 388. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law implementing the EU's international institutional cooperation projects and technical assistance projects is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 126 votes, we have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91709	The next item is: - Proposal for a Law on the Participation of Civil Experts in International Missions and Operations First Reading, P.Z. No. 389. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Andreja Metelko-Zgombic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91710	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here is the proposal for a Law on the participation of civil experts in international missions and operations, and we would just like to remind here that the work of the Republic of Croatia within international organisations, as well as in the framework of the EU's political security framework, the common foreign and security policy, within the framework of NATO, is achieving its national interests and contributions to international peace and security. And by active participation in international missions and operations of the Republic of Croatia, it confirms its credibility, its reputation, stronger strategic partnerships with allies, it generally improves its visibility and its national credibility. Croatian diplomats began participating in peacekeeping missions and operations as early as the 1990s. This began through the work of the OSCE mission, and in January 2005, our diplomats and police officers joined and joined our army in Afghanistan and thus de facto the participation of the Republic of Croatia in civilian missions began. And it was this Afghanistan that was a good example of how civil engagement could fit nicely in early military contributions to the country's international efforts, and the subsequent civil engagement soon began with the implementation of development aid, the development policy of the Republic of Croatia. The situation in Afghanistan, if you want it in Georgia, Kosovo, Ukraine where Croatian civilian experts have participated or still participate, face us with large variety of peace missions and operations, global challenges are a major, global threat to terrorism, illegal migration, extremism, hybrid action, forcing all of us to participate in peacekeeping missions and operations and face such challenges. And for this very reason, the early prevention of conflicts that are just being achieved through participation in such civilian missions should remain and be the main concept and main driving force of the international community in parts of the world, where such hotspots exist, where just through development aid, development-advised observation missions are trying to prevent conflicts in advance. The peace mission mandates have become more complex, more diverse. That is why this more dimensional approach also requires a large number of different experts, so experts related to peace building, disarmament, demobilisation, reintegration, in which the Republic of Croatia has special experience. Likewise, experts in the conduct of elections, referendums, refugee returns and displaced persons. And it is this law that is now before you that will enable a wide range of Croatian citizens, so all those who meet the requirements required for a particular mission to apply and participate in such operations. This law opens and extends the scope of persons who can participate as civilian experts in such missions. The proposal for the Law is also in line with the new national security strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which has just been discussed in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, which recognises the importance of the participation of civilian experts from the private sector, academic community, civil society in various crises abroad. Furthermore, the Law recognises the importance of the equal participation of persons of both sexes in international missions and operations, it is now referred to the Security Council resolution of 1325 in 2000, which is called Women, we and security, and we really expect that, just through the implementation of such a law, once adopted in this high home, we will actively promote and implement gender equality policy, and we will make real additional efforts to ensure that civil experts also, alongside their male colleagues, participate in operations, know the specific contribution of women in the overall stability, security and stability of society. This Law also sets out better inter-minor cooperation when a decision is taken to refer experts to civil missions and operations, and in a way that, prior to the Government's decision-making, the Resent Ministry will seek the opinion and consent of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which will ultimately enable the Government to make targeted political assessments and assessments when the Republic of Croatia needs and wishes to participate in a specific mission. Due to the specificity of our experience, the political, economic and social transition, the Homeland War, the peaceful reintegration of occupied areas, all of this represents a really additional value that the Republic of Croatia can offer to the international community and now that it has passed this path from the recipient to the giver of strength and can actively participate in creating conditions for peace. In this way it can also in some way confirm its importance, its credibility and in general its position in the international community. In conclusion, we believe that this proposal for a law that is before you will, in a quality, complete, uniform way, regulate the conditions and methods of participation of civil experts and thus increase their number and all in line with the priorities, interests and strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91711	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The HDZ advocates' club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak Agent Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected State Secretary and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Although the general public is mainly associated with international missions and international operations with military engagement, the fact is that civilian experts are also a very important component of the operation, operations conducted by the United Nations as a collective security organisation, carried out by NATO as a collective defence organisation, but the civilian dimension is particularly present in the European Union missions in the OSCE missions. This civil dimension includes a range of areas of humanitarian assistance, the organisation of development cooperation, including the development of democratic institutions, the strengthening of the rule of law, and complex diplomatic tasks related to the establishment, construction and maintenance of peace or stabilisation after the conflict and the post-conflict renewal. This bill right now regulates the field of participation of Croatian civilian experts, and this in some ways encourages their greater participation in international missions and in operations in which a military component prevails when it comes to Croatian participation. It is worth noting here that Croatian civilian experts have so far participated in international missions and operations as we have heard from the secretary of state, all in accordance with the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection and state officials and subsistence in peace operations and other activities abroad. However, the new Law on Defence as well as the adoption of the Civil Protection System Act exempt these segments from this original law which regulates the rights and obligations of participants in international missions and operations. It was therefore necessary to regulate this area with a particular emphasis on strategic but operational aspects of inter-resorship cooperation and coordination. The Government is now doing so with this proposal for a law which states in Article 4 that a decision on the participation of civilian experts in an international mission or operation shall be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal of the head of the competent authority for the operation, but with the prior consent of the Minister or Minister of Foreign Affairs. Furthermore, Article 13 provides for a system of reporting on the activities of civil experts in international missions in such a way that the body in the Croatian public administration, responsible for the operation, reports three months later by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then submits an annual report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, without the intention of increasing the bureaucratic burden, but respecting the role of the Croatian Parliament, perhaps the government could consider that this is the same report prepared by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for example. the delivery to the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy. This could be incorporated either in this legislative proposal or in the regular reporting that the ICPE has with the Committee on Foreign Policy in the Assembly include this segment of civil expertise activities in international operations. The draft law also regulates the rights and obligations of civil experts and thus recognises government officials and tenants working experience gained in international missions and operations. I think it's extremely important that this is how it's regulated. Otherwise, it wouldn't be encouraging for our experts to apply to such international missions, and if it were harmful for their professional development within our state administration. It also provides for the possibility of sending non-state government civilian experts, who will be selected by calling for a public call. That is how this area of civil experts is expanded and extended for experts who are not in the state administration. Finally, I consider it important to note the need for all resolutions in the government, not just the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to take care of the importance of the engagement of Croatian citizens in international missions and operations for the overall international position of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal for a law on the participation of civilian experts in international missions and operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91713	Thank you. Representatives' club Glas HSU also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by MP Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam State Secretary with Associates, so in the case of this topic, there is no doubt that the law is necessary and will not harm good practice because we have fought a lot with this particular topic. Namely, official development aid, and de facto in some way it is only extended and better defined that our civilian experts can participate in this official development aid, is one of the most effective instruments of foreign policy, especially for a country such as Croatia and especially in situations where communication is yet to be established. Economic cooperation and political co-operation and other forms of cooperation are also behind this communication. But through various projects and when-when it seems that military cooperation has taken over the whole area, but we've all heard of, say, doctors without borders and that kind of cooperation that exists in Croatia, perhaps some of you will be surprised, a huge interest. But we didn't have the right way, and there was a slight debate with the Department of Defense that had this kind of cooperation under it for a long time. We did not have the right way so that this type of expert could be directed and used for international co-operation, i.e. so that these civilians could join international missions and operations. Because there's a whole series of insurance problems, guarantees, who's responsible for these people, who's responsible for their safety, how they're paid. So a whole series of technical difficulties. To the extent that we have done this, it has contributed significantly, and it has been absolutely complementary with the success of our military missions and the participation of our members of military units in various missions around the world, whenever it has included some communication and some project that was related to a civilian expert and direct communication with civilians in that country, regardless of whether it was projects of a hospital in Afghanistan, a library for girls, whether it was co-operation with Angola about reproductive health. Any such component has always contributed to the acceptance of this mission and to better communicate the military segment with a society in which it acts as you know, of course, if there are military forces there then it is always traumatised societies, very often suspicious of anyone outside, especially the armies outside. And from that point of view, these civilian experts are absolutely valuable and it is very effective to cooperate. So far, most often if they weren't soldiers, there were police and judicial police. They were the most successful, let's say, some kind of civilian, even though we can say for them that they are some kind of half-civil because they are still in a specific organization. In this case, there is a need for doctors, lawyers, nurses, architects, teachers, nutritionists, divers, as is now. We see from the case in Thailand with 12 of these boys and their coach, who apropo I'm using this opportunity to congratulate because an international team of divers managed to get them all out of that cave that they were in, I think 23. So, six, they're all safe. And this was carried out by an international team of top experts to say, that is, top divers who managed to get these kids out because their coach is 25 years old as well as I do is some kind of child, managed to get out of that cave. So these are the most different types of experts in such situations are needed and Croatia has them. Let me give you another example. For example, we had financed one book of Afghan songs, not for singing but written songs, which were collected and published on both gifts and on the pasture, so in two dominant languages of Afghanistan, for the first time since the wars began. It's one small thing, but it's actually a big message to one of the dreary societies. It came out of this society alone which, with the help of Croatia, saw the light of day. These are all things that are precious as aid and international cooperation. Precious as an instrument of foreign policy. And perhaps most precious as a positive message to our own society that not everything is just focused on us, and for the rest we don't care. That some compassion is of universal value we share and are important to us and they are good. That it is something that is good and to participate in such things makes these people and society a better society. And that is why I think it is very good that it has succeeded in reaching this stage in which it is possible to pass a law that will regulate and allow me to say, in full or in law, the justified involvement of civilian experts that they no longer need to be screwed up in various ways so that they can still participate there. Another example, let's say there was, I don't know if there was still a ministry, but there was one form of cooperation with a civil society called the Civil Society Platform and there was a whole series of people who were involved and could also participate with this legal regulation problem in, say, helping especially conflict and post-conflict societies with their experiences. For example, collecting data on war victims, collecting human rights data and human rights violations, how to collect it, in a way, for international judicial institutions to respect it in fact. So, war crimes, everything the civil sector has great experience about, and it's hard when you don't have this kind of legal basis, it's actually hard to actually send these people as officially as Croatian to this kind of mission or to support it in this kind of cooperation. So I hope that this law will open up space for all of this, not only to participate together with military missions, which is of course important and good and multiplely increasing the quality of these military missions, but also in the type of projects that I have illustrated to a famous institution or a famous institution Doctors without borders, but of course there are a whole series of them. The GLASs Club and HSU will support this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91715	Thank you. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91716	Proposal for a law on the participation of civilian experts in international missions and operations, first reading, P.Z. No. 389. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the participation of civil experts in international missions and operations is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that we have unanimously 124 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91717	The following point is: - Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and six members of the Civil Intelligence Council is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security under Article. 4. Decisions on the Council for the Civil Control of Security Intelligence agencies, in conjunction with Article 1(1)(a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall be taken into account. 110. The law on the security-intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Ranko Ostojić, chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91718	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. In front of you, the proposal for a Decision appointing the president and six members of the Civil Intelligence Committee, which was sent to the plenary session by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, is the law and is thus adopted. The proposed members are for the President of the Council for Civil Intelligence Oversight Agency Gordan Akrap, Gordan Bosanac, Eduard Briški, Doctor of Science Josip Cerina, Vojko Rešetar and Mile Štefanc. It is 7 members who are proposed to be president and 6 members of the Civil Intelligence Council. After several repeated public calls, the Committee came to the point that here you now have the opportunity to submit this proposal. I would like to say for my part that all the résumés of all candidates have been delivered to you and that after a long time we have resolved this situation and proposed to the Croatian Assembly at the plenary session to adopt such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91719	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ members' club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak Agent Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91720	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia provides that surveillance of security intelligence agencies is carried out by the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the National Security Council and the Civil Intelligence Council. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 110st Law states that in order to achieve civil surveillance over the work of security intelligence agencies, a Security Intelligence Agency Security and Intelligence Council is to be established. In St. 2. The Council consists of presidents and 6 members appointed by the Croatian Parliament. In Article 3, members of the Council may be appointed to the Croatian citizens of the VSS where at least 1 member of the council must be a graduate lawyer, a graduate politologist and a dip. electrical engineering engineer. Paragraph 4 tells us that the president and members of the council are appointed for 4 years and may be re-appointed after the term of office. The proposal for this Decision lays down that the Security Intelligence Agency’s Security and Intelligence Council has been designated. The proposed Zdravka Ćufor-Šarić for the president and for the members of the doctor of science Gordan Akrap, Gordan Bosanac, Eduard Briški, doctor of science Josip Cerina, Vojko Rešetar and Mile Štefanac. It is evident from their résumés that one balance was to be made between former employees in the security system and persons in NGOs. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 111 of that Law provides for the Council to carry out the following tasks: it monitors the legality of the work of security services, monitors and monitors the application of measures of permanent data collection limiting constitutional human rights and fundamental freedoms. Article 33 states that SOA can apply to citizens the measures of secret data collection temporarily restricting certain constitutional human rights and fundamental freedoms. Secret data collection measures are secret surveillance of telecommunications services, activities and traffic, and covert surveillance of communication content and covert surveillance of telecommunications traffic data, c) covert monitoring of the location of users and d) covert surveillance of international telecommunications connections. Currently, the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security deals with and collects data in the application of illegal measures. Special evidence actions against council members of the Varazdin County County County Assembly in 2015 only because they dared to update the issue of weapons theft from a police warehouse in Varazdin. Instead of all the institutions dealing with where that weapon is now, who stole it and 153 pieces of firearms, they are investigating who asked the county council members to update the topic. To make things more tragic, the police themselves gave out all the information about where, when, how, what was found in traffic control, they did it in a perfidious way. Namely, the state's attorney's office has filed criminal charges against an unknown perpetrator for giving off official secrets, and the police have used it to list the number of county councillors. That took three months. When we talk about the Security Intelligence Agency in Article 41, which is a really interesting article, data, documents and information collected in an illegal manner are being destroyed within 30 days on which the minutes are being drawn up. It is literally legally legal for the Security Intelligence Agency to act against the law, and we are talking about the protection of constitutional human rights. And that is why, and because of that article, it is evident that this Civil Watch Council is necessary. It would also be interesting to note that, given that we failed to appoint him for two years to deal with the "Mito" affair that rocked our country two years ago, where in a daily newspaper, literally on a few pages, we could read about transcripts of who talked to the senior state officials even in the Supreme Court that none of these transcripts had a conversation between the official and some of the people from the crime-mills, but some of the others talked about him. And now we can talk about what we can talk about, rather than deliberately discrediting those who obviously have someone at the Security Intelligence Agency or other secret services in the way. For all these reasons, because of the possibility of incurring a Security Intelligence Agency into constitutional human rights and fundamental freedom, I consider it necessary to appoint this Council. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club proposes to adopt a decision appointing the president and six members of the Civil Surveillance Council of the Security Intelligence Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91721	Thank you. The HNS representative club also applied for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by Stjepan Curaj, who is not here. That loses the right to speak. The SDP advocates' club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative of Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91722	My colleagues and colleagues, I must say that the part I spoke about earlier in front of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I must now mention a few things because I see that there is a situation that seems to be not well perceived. This is the Civil Intelligence Council, and it needs to be distinguished from the Council that will be appointed by the amendments to the laws that were passed a few years ago, it is ensured that civil surveillance of the measures carried out by the police with the Security and Intelligence Agency, so they will be the ones who are about to fill that gap that is currently not covered, which is that I will now tell the sector or parliament through the Civil Watch Council. At this point, these six members of the Civil Surveillance Council and its president should point out that this measure, which was mentioned earlier in the light of a single opinion that it would be a combination of members and members experienced in the security system or who were members of that system and of the civil sector, should be pointed out that the sittings themselves were highlighted and said that this was nevertheless the decision of the ruling party and not of the opposition and in particular Dr. Linic-Strenja was also on the side of those who thought it should be exactly one right now I will say the elimination factor for those who should oversee the security system. It should be openly said that there is no obstacle to such a designation, but on the other hand, we have been guided by the fact that it is most important to appoint a Council for Civil Control. On the other hand, the ruling members and members of the Council have also chosen to support candidates who have had such experience. What I think should be emphasized, which is that at this point we have had one limited field and the possibility of acting. So we're limited in so much that you have exactly certain places where someone can compete for president, for someone who comes in with experience from telecommunications, lawyers, etc. These are all the provisions that limit you and we have tried through a relatively long period of time through multiple times the public calling, etc. You're gonna have to deal with this situation. And here we are now at the chance to finally finish it. What's true is that at this point, we're going to have 35 candidates reporting for the competition, 7 of them are proposed for members, and what's been regulated by the Security Intelligence System Act, and otherwise I think it's wrong multiple times I've pointed that out. Security check for members and members shall not take place until after they have been appointed. This is something that is also the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security in a way that makes it kind of difficult for the environment, and it may actually happen in that situation that, even in the House today, or when the vote is passed, we will have a similar situation, and tomorrow, perhaps, one of the candidates or candidates will not pass the security check, and then we will have a similar situation. At the moment, Mrs Zdravka Čufar Saric, Mr Bosanac and Mr Rešetar were proposed by the opposition, and four others were proposed by the position and there we agreed that the priority was to appoint a commission. I note this part of the experience in the security system that applies to the part of the people I say has no legal obstacle but have indeed been in the security system and worked there. We have even the case that we have today an employee of the Croatian Parliament who will be in our body who will oversee the security services in this segment. I would say that it's been almost two years, that we've had many times the situation and the problems that were opening up around the public call, canceling public tenders, going back to talking to the people who were proposed. What's the end, the best we can do now is done. However, I would like to say that as true and important as it is that the Civil Watch Council should function, it should be pointed out that it has not been there for more than two years precisely because it has been trying to reject the proposals that have been made. We could have solved it before if we wanted to accept members and civil society to be in particular in the position of the president, that made the last choice impossible, we had to repeat the competition. And I'd like to say on this side that we could have worked this out a long time ago, and it didn't happen exactly because it didn't realize that it was very important that we had a Council like this. I would also like to point out on this occasion that there are significant shortcomings in the work of the Civil Surveillance Council itself, which is that the Security Intelligence Agency Act or the Security System restricts the work of the Council itself. They are not able to enter the operational-communication center, they are not able to make real surveillance properly. But in any case, we'd better have this kind of variant until eventually the law changes than that we've had a situation for two years that this body doesn't exist. Very often, it was nice to tell everyone that we have a paper of well-written laws, how all this has been resolved together, and here you can see for yourself how long it has been going on with all the efforts, negotiations and attempts to find a compromise solution to form a body called the Civil Intelligence Council that I will not say that there is no work, but there are not so many ideas and it is important that they are nevertheless a place where a person, a citizen and a citizen, can turn to, may ask to carry out certain procedures and to report it in any case to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security because it works in its composition and I think that today, however, a step has been taken forward, and I repeat, about the members and members themselves, ask to make a distinction on who is proposed and who thinks that they will do the best work of civil surveillance themselves. Here's so much on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91723	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to an individual debate. Actually, we only have one, and that's the esteemed representative of Steve Culei. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91724	Your Honor, Vice President. The president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Ranko Ostojić, who was in that place, in that honorable role, I don't know if he deserved it, according to my assessment of the police officer, we come from the same branch at least, someone a little longer was someone shorter. But when I chose my associates, I chose them exactly according to their specifications, according to performance, according to the characteristics, and according to what these people represented, what they stood for, what their guidelines were, what their goals were. And I see that you have chosen yourself some candidates very close to you and similar at least in the light of world view, ideologically and in other respects, as well as in the life views of Croatia. It's clear to me that you chose Gordan Bosanca and I now understand why the system didn't work for two and a half years, because Gordan Bosanac just missed it. Imagine missing one Gordan Bosnian and similar to him, so that the system whole functions. When I remember when you were the minister that killed Pajcic in Vukovar, that his killer, Sabados, was now retired, a force officer who had once struck Pajcic to the ground, broke him into the wall, that he had died from the consequences. When I remember the "Svastika" affair and your big involvement in the discovery of the same affair, when I remember the Dolaski case, the disappearance of gold, the police's blasphemy is gone, the gold that was broken into by the police. Who? And now what are we doing? At the head of such an institution we bring a man who has no success in his work. And not only have we brought him in and appointed him president of that same board, but we've allowed him since he's an opposition, they have, according to their quota, those who import wine as much as you can bring in wine, they have their quota to set up the man they choose. And who is it? It is by chance Gordan Bosanac, the same one whose Liberation Action of Croatia was controversial, was questionable. The same man who and whose attitudes agree with those of Belgrade with whom we have crossed hope for a long time and for all time. But look, not just that. Is this same Gordan Bosnian possible in a conflict of interest? Could a man be in a permanent position toward someone he owes something to because the gentleman is a member of NGOs? The gentleman is a scholarship student of foreign organizations and who knows who and what. Did he pass the security check? I believe he must have passed the check if you say so. How man will not pass the quality of moral predisposition that he represents and represents. Imagine, here I was listening to a fellow uncle, you were Home Secretary, and it disappeared on more than 10 guns, guns, rifles, silencers and... explosives, bombs, all gone when you were minister. And imagine the president of the board again one who doesn't have any results. How are we going to move forward while such waters represent us, represent us, and lead us where? Not forward, but reverse safe. That and the Bosnians, I don't mean the Bosniaks, will represent one such service. And imagine NGOs doing what they're going to do, what they're going to do? Well, they'll spit on exactly the kind of service they should be working for. But what will they do? They will send reports to outside Croatia so that they can see how we Ustashaise, Fascise or Serbian News can be held together, so that they can all go west together so that they can represent themselves as NGOs paid by Croatian citizens for what they promote. And I'm going to read to you Mr. Former Minister and the current president of the Committee what your officers wrote about the same organizations that did what they did, so he says: "National Police Union, MUP Republic. The Department of Home Affairs -- the police departments of all, the police stations of all. Subject - the indication of false untrue, offensive allegations of individual NGOs that advocate the illegal entry of foreign persons of migrants into the Republic of Croatia. Dearly esteemed, teachingly presented falsely and inciting a number of calls from fellow police officers who perform the service to protect the state border we have a need and obligation to respond. We are bitter and surprised by the amount of hatred directed by NGOs as well as by associations gathered in the coordination of the same associations, which were welcomed yesterday 24 January 2017 in their press releases a number of untrue false information about the work of Croatian police on the protection of the state border of the Republic of Croatia. So, these and such NGOs, which also belonged to a certain Bosnian who will be a member of the Council, worked precisely against the interests of the Republic of Croatia and against the Croatian police, which you led. Namely, the claims of those associations transferred in some media that are insulting and demeaning the dignity and work of the Croatian police, we quote: "... of the aforementioned associations, it is not about official returns of refugees from Croatia, but about secret illegal persecutions from Croatia to Serbia, which is carried out by the Croatian police, which are accompanied by violence and humiliation." This happened not at the time when you were minister. You were not called by these NGOs no matter what I said and of the Dolaski, of the weapons, of the “Svastika” of all things. You weren't questioned at the time because you were the boss. "From talks with refugees, activists have learned that they have been deprived of the value of thousands of euros, personal things, cell phones that are often destroyed, wristwatches, bags and documents, they are exposed to various forms of verbal violence. The refugees speak of shouting, demeaning, mocking, cursing. "How did all those refugees who came here know to convince it by NGOs, what words did they defaminate them when they did not know our Croatian language? It's really weird. If we were in the wonderland of Alice's movie that I watched a long time ago as a boy, you wouldn't be surprised. When I came here, I saw there could be anything and everything. And now I know that Croatia must be alert and careful when you see who will take care of you through... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91725	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91726	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Culey has injured Article 238, paragraph 1 and paragraph 4. In the debate on the Security Services Civil Surveillance Council, he discussed Mr Ostojic's mandate when he was interior minister and the SDP club's election, who will be chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I can only say that the mandate of Agent Ostojic while he was Minister of the Interior is the best recommendation that he does this job and I suggest that you give Mr Culey a warning because of the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91727	Thank you very much. I estimate that after all, my colleague Coley did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. Many times I can hear things here that I might personally be able to do differently, but I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt. Now I would like to give a word to Honorable Representative Ranko Stojić, who will finally say a few words on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91728	Your Honor, Vice President. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament who lets no matter what the MPs do insult me. [[You can't hear me.]] I don't have any problems, I'm already used to it, etc. It's common for someone who's been a maid in JNA to work as a civilian in the Yugoslav People's Army to insult me very regularly here, but I don't call myself to defend myself and to protect myself. But something else. And this is the choice of people who are proposed, unanimously among other joint efforts by the HDZ and the SDP and insult among other things, individual members of non-governmental associations, thus generalising, and using, as an argument, exactly the association of the national union whose head is charged with the power of power, the rightful indictee and the serious crimes. It's something that's very bad and it's not good to send a message about how civilian surveillance should look. Secondly, to burden me with the story of a 90s Income Officer at a time when I wasn't even in the police, and then forget that all this was happening together at a time when at exactly the HDZ authorities were actually all together again it happened again to put the burden on, too. Also, the swastika, i.e. the famous case that happened there for which the persons were convicted and who were responsible for the job were given judicial judgments, I think it is very important to stress that there is no need to regularly listen here in the Croatian Parliament, because then it would be a proof of incompetence that after three ministers who changed afterwards did nothing about it. Does that mean that the case doesn't want to be solved? That they don't want to find the perpetrators? That it does not really want to end this story, and that people who were in my day and led the police in Split regularly go even more places and are able to end such a case long ago and find those who drew one of the thousands of swastikas, but there was one that was very important and important because of what happened in the situation that we were seriously punished. This should remind us that we have been punished before and that the stadium was empty because of the racist cheerleading "kill, kill a Serb". That's why the stadium was empty. Clearly, it did not bother anyone, but the swastika drawn from those who, of course, caused shame until today, was not resolved. Ministers change, but it remains a mantra to keep it on the nose, who? Whoever was the Minister of the Interior back then. And here I want to point out again, which is that police management goes by those who are directors and those who command the police. The Home Secretary is not authorized, nor is he in charge of the police. So when we learn that after many years, it will be good. And bad if the ministers get involved in the work of the police. As for the candidates themselves, I don't know if he was referring to this candidate who graduated from the 91st Artillery School in Zadar? I'm a little surprised that all I care about right now is Mr. Gordan Bosanac, thinking it was an obstacle to his choice. If there are certain things that are true and true, which is that he has an obstacle or that he is a person who is prone to crime or something like that, then it should be reported to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, and not publicly muddied by him and the entire NGO in a way that actually these people who should be our instrument and way and help in controlling the security system by me in the Croatian Parliament are absolutely inappropriately and unacceptable to come into a situation so that someone about NGOs is speaking. However, it seems that the usual thing depends on how much, or whoever is saying it, it will not get a warning, and if someone else had said that it would have been sanctioned. However, such double criteria are already a habit here in the Croatian Parliament, so here I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91729	Thank you very much. With this I would like to conclude a debate on this motion for a decision, and we will vote on it, of course, when the conditions are met. That would conclude our work today. We'll continue work tomorrow, so Wednesday 11 July at 9.30. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, the Second Reading of P.Z. No. 334 After that, we would move to a statement on the amendments. Have a good afternoon. The seat was interrupted at 3:11 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-10-0.u91730	The proposal for a decision to appoint a president and 6 members of the SOA Civil Surveillance Council, is proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I propose a parliamentary working body to vote. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and 6 members of the Civil Surveillance Council of the SOA. Please, let's vote. I would like to point out that, by a majority of the 101 votes, four abstentions and 17 votes against, we have reached a decision on the appointment of the president and six members of the SOA Civil Surveillance Council, as proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
