ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92267	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,01 HOURS]] And the first one, on behalf of the National Minority Club, will be spoken by the respected representative Furio Radin and the vice president of this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I want to talk to you publicly after months of working on this problem and we're talking about the Oil Man, about what my opinion is about this problem is. Local self-government and government all this time since, say, New Year's, so to this day, she's been working on this problem, and I've been involved in it, too, but this is the first time I've said what I'm thinking. The oil is a symbol of modern Pula. And in modern terms... which goes from the 19th century to today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's 150 years old. It has existed since Pula became a city, after it was almost from the Roman Empire, in fact, without any real urban significance. The shipyard survived this entire time of 150 years with ups and downs and the declines were during fascism mostly when the oil actually reduced 500 workers and when, for example, it was. my nono had to go to work in... In fact, he didn't have the moral political resemblance to working in Ulnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he survived. It's time to stop dealing with what's who... That's the opinion of the oil workers that I only carry here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're absolutely right, the Oil and the Third May and the group of Oilies have to simply survive because they represent something more than smurfs. I want to say so, and now we don't have time to go into deeper analysis. There are many... But the shipyards are real Oil and Third May. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are places where big, big ships are made. That's why we don't call the Oilman a squire. We call it arsenal. The thought I want to give you is very simple and short. Istria is with one, The Ulnik is Pula, Pula is Istria, that is an Istrian problem. He's an oil man, Istra, he's sorry, with one-third... tourism has been choosing solidarity with weak parts of Croatia for 25 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today it is said that taxpayers should now support something that is no longer valid. First of all, it's worth it. First of all, it's got a future. But it is time that after 25 years, because solidarity is something that implies reciprocity for other parts of Croatia to be solid with Istria and with Uljanik. That's the basic thought I want to give you. Yes, Uljanik is a far more sensitive problem than the political public, and perhaps some parts of the government think at the moment. There are no three solutions to this problem in my opinion. There is only one solution to this problem and it is far more intensive and serious looking for a strategic partner than it has ever been and far more intensive work on restructuring. Everything else would be devastating, and I would have inconceivable consequences for Pula and Istria, and when I talk about the inconceivable consequences, I don't just think about economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92269	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92270	We are now going to the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Furio Radin on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92271	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Minority Representatives' Club, with a strong statement, but measured and rationally condemned aggression against colleagues Pupovac and Milosevic, as civilised people do against the receivers and uglies. Yes, gentlemen, MPs, cowards and hooligans are the ones who raise their hand, even if symbolically, throwing away the food that many people long for and then hiding in the crowd, primitive, homeless, are the ones who verbally attack on the street, and then when you turn around and walk towards them, they regularly speed up the walk and run to the opposite side. And the poor nationalist sociopaths are those who shoot three times, listen to me, who shoot three times from a war rifle, at the entrance of a house where only eight families, several artists, students and pensioners and one minority representative live. And after trying to intimidate, in fear of escaping, and it happened and, of course, police records, with a request not to spread the news. It's also those who encourage stone carambolized columns, written, hidden behind their dark computers. I can imagine the work of their adrenaline struggling with fear, when they write regularly long analytical columns while the synthesis is expected from the street. Let's be clear, let's call them, like anything else, intellectuals and television leaders, where we don't know who's the guest, and who's the host, because most often both of them are low-instinct agitators, all of these today, we call them as prime ministers, what will inevitably happen, if not properly punished, what can be considered a harmless and primitive act at first sight, and in fact represents one of the many consequences of an atmosphere that has been built for years, read the declaration, up to 3 or 4 years ago, that we representatives of minorities have brought. Yes, it's the right hand. To remind you, in one of the parentheses the Pope told the young, a month ago, I'm not talking about the church, I'm talking about clericals in and outside the church. Claricalism is the perversion of the church, said the Pope, thinking that, explaining clericalism is like that act, that state, which is put above moral, above state. And above the people, and meddling in the affairs of the state. But I have heard of my ears likening some known exponents of the left, and I cannot recall that one of the most common slanders of minorities, called ethnic businessmen, for quite private reasons, comes from one former president of the Republic, has not yet been apologized, and has already been used by the vice president of the Serbian Parliament from the radical party, when she commented on the presidents of the Association of the widow's mother from Srebrenica. She said which son, which father will now bury one businessman, has spread. Gentlemen, I'm done. Such ethically motivated aggression is the Balkans, the endemic gene and arrived in the centre of Zagreb, where I can claim with full responsibility that in my youth, despite the political system, which was then in power, this Balkans, was not, did not exist. The National Minority Club, dares the act of aggression on... I despise those who encourage it, who comment on it, who would like one Croatia, which all nationalities, which is different from all kinds of video dangers and not normal appearances or resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I feel fear in their bones, and fear is dangerous for everyone, for those who fear and for those who are subject to that same fear. If it's politics, the one in the basic atmosphere, the real danger, the even greater danger lies in the primitiveism that it produces. She's an ethical primitive who's basically all the tragedies of these spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92273	And the last club is that national minority advocate on behalf of whom the respected representative Furio Radin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92274	I was asked by my colleagues to speak Italian but a colleague of the Vice President would only understand me and a few others so that I would still speak Croatian. The storm came about the signing of the referendum initiatives. There are all kinds of explanations about what happened, why it happened, etc. The fact is, however, that too many signatures based on an analysis of these signatures have proved to be signatures that are not credible to be mild. Either of the people who signed the wrong name or they gave the wrong information or they were, or they were settled somewhere else and not in Croatia, or the handwriting was incomprehensible. I didn't see any of those papers signed because you can understand for yourself that I wasn't one of the signatories so I didn't even get close to those stands. But you will also understand that we from the national minorities would be much more pleased that although these initiatives have collected signatures of the legion of artis properly, neatly and in spite of the times that are still too short, let us be fair and then come to the Assembly and refer it to the Constitutional Court. Because the Constitutional Court and I don't see how possible it would be possible for it to give the green light to give me a ratified convention, a convention against violence against women and have ratified them so far by 20 EU countries. 21 will ratify next year, it will be Ireland. So one convention that actually protects the more vulnerable, gender or gender anywhere else is still regrettable in the world. And this initiative also took away the rights of national minorities. Now we keep talking about how they got together, forgetting what the signatures were about. It means women's rights, birth rights, sexual rights for those who don't like it and for the rights of national minorities. It means the rights of vulnerable groups. Minority was said to have too few votes to enter the parliament, forgetting that there is a system of positive discrimination. And why do minorities have fewer votes? Because by definition, there are fewer. And why are there fewer? There are no fewer by definition because they are and now I'm going to use one neology voluntarily or voluntarily expelled from '45. until a few decades ago, a million, almost one million, almost one million. So that this country would have a million more inhabitants if all those who were other nationalities, other ethnicities than Croatians had, they would have, if the rest had, had 5 million and some inhabitants today and not 4 and some residents. That's why I want to say this here. Let everyone, as announced, be allowed to check these signatures that are not authentic and to give their opinion. But it will always remain and always remains the fact that it has been much better, that it has come to the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court is tearing down and the initiative that these initiatives are precisely because they are directed against those who are more vulnerable and precisely because these initiatives are actually amoral, they would certainly be banned from the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92275	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92320	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS club, I want to talk about education because more than 100 years ago, both Antun and Stjepan Radić understood the importance of education and worked to describe Croatian people, people who lived in Croatia at the time. Today, it is good that the school year has started and that a new experimental program of Life School is announced, a school of the future that will allow children to acquire knowledge and skills that will be easier to employ on the labour market tomorrow. And look, one of the goals of this experimental program of Life School is also easier bags. And I don't know why many of our colleagues and the media are attacking Minister Divjak. Well, it's part of the program, easier bags because here, kids have been going to school for three weeks and they don't carry books and they really have easier bags. And they'll be healthier, they don't have a load on their spine, they have lighter bags. And why do they have lighter bags? Well, because there was an unforgivable shame and a schlamper that more than 8,000 children in the Republic of Croatia and family, from socially endangered families who were not allowed to get books or textbooks. The ministry forgot about them, not because it's an experimental program, because if it was an experimental program, everyone would really welcome it, but it's one clamper, forget it, as the minister says, because of an administrative error. That's not true. The real truth is that there's been a new reconstruction within the ministry, that there's been humanization, or what journalists and people like to say, infatuation. This is the real reason why it came to the government's decision to get textbooks for 8,000, more than 8,000 children of the socially most vulnerable families. It's a terrible shame. And let's stop doing more humanizing, infatuating, doing your job. Those kids deserve to have books like their colleagues in the bench. And we in HSS advocate that all children in the Republic of Croatia get free textbooks because it is not their fault if they live in Gunj, Ilock or Zagreb, that one in Zagreb and other cities that have money can have free textbooks, and those living in assisted areas, as we like to say, have no textbooks and more ministries then forget them. And the minister is angry with her associates, asking for their responsibility. No, Minister, that's what you're resigning for. And the HSS asks you to resign because of a mistake like this, that 8,000 kids don't have school books. And since you're not going to do that, and probably not even Prime Minister Plenkovic is going to get rid of it because he shouldn't, the chairs are being guarded, it's better to have such a government and also with HNS and a trade coalition than not to have children and 8,000 children and books. So then I suggest that Minister Divjak, apart from sending an apology, take another step. Along with Minister Murganic, who says, take care of every family, go into every family and take that book bag and apologize to those children and parents. That would be the right move for a true minister to resign. And in a situation like this when people are dealing with human beings, infatuation, there is no confidence in the constitution, in the state, in the government and people are leaving the Republic of Croatia. The yeartimes say over 80,000 people and what is important for the prominent and what should be warned to all of us that these are mostly over 80% of people up to 40. And they leave the entire family and we already have 64 schools in the Republic without any students, closed facilities. And this school year, eight more schools haven't enrolled any students. If the Minister continues to conduct the School of Life like this, she won't need textbooks, she won't need schools because there won't be any students or residents in Croatia. We all advocate Croatia, a country of knowledge, e-Croatian, e-Citizens, and citizens say my Croatia, I go to Germany or Ireland, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92322	For taking a stand, the HSS Representatives' Club also signed up, MP Kreso Beljak will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92323	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to take the floor either, but here I am called by esteemed colleagues, former colleagues, with whom we participated together in the 2016 elections which were very fierce and criticised the backdrop of HDZ, the reverse of Croatian education and here, have now accepted Croatian education. They invented Mrs. Wilderness, and I admire her, really, really, really, really, really, for her sake. She's doing real reform. It would be good for you to visit Croatian universities, especially students, who write biology, who write down history, who write down geography, and then honestly tell them, that gentlemen, young gentlemen, don't enroll in colleges, because your professions won't be necessary, that's your reform. But, let's be fair, your reform is HEP, taking up well-paid chairs, in HEP, in JANAF, in state institutions, you gentlemen of the HNS have sold yourself in one of the most shameless ways to HDZ, the most shameless way, you have sold a party founded by Mrs. Savka Dabcevic Kučar, I have to be careful not to get confused, how your president got confused, once it was amazing, that even one party president could say, it went this far, and you know what I'm talking about. I would be ashamed if I were you. You invite me to welcome the Faith in God and the Peasant Syllabic. If we were believers, we believe in God, and I'm asking you, what kind of relationships you have and what connections do believers have to do with the great majority of those who do their job as well, but we've had a lot of examples of those who have encouraged children at the youngest age, in elementary schools to kill politicians. It's your reform, Mr. Batinich. That's what you do. It's no reform, absolutely no reform, don't do anything, don't exist and leave the HSS alone. So when we're so small, so irrelevant, when we're gone, then why do you keep calling us, why do you work for us, what do you care? Here in Dalmatia you got a man who was in charge of fishing, a former HSS State Secretary for Fisheries, who no longer appears at any fishing port and he's nice, at a pompous press conference, which you called upon to come to you. That's where he belongs, so it's ink. That's what they cost us. His place is with you no longer a political party, you can lift up the breach of the Rules of Procedure as much as you want, you've pulled me by the tongue, as you thought I'd shut up. It would make me uncomfortable, we were in a campaign together, we were fighting for a better Croatia, for advanced Croatia, and you're in a coalition today, with a gentleman, I won't mention any names, look at what people are and what they do. Look at the HRT where you can be asked who is revitalising the II crimes. the world war, which turns false into truth, that's what you're involved in. You fool whole generations of young people so that not you, you no longer exist, in order for HDZ to get the electoral body, that's what you do, that's your reform. What kind of communism is Mr. Glasnović talking about? Well, if it were Communism time, so Mr. Glasnović would have fucked a rock on the Gol island, and he wouldn't have talked about the nonsense in the Parliament, that's what you gave him and you made it possible for him and leave us alone, do your job. Our business as an opposition, for which we received votes, but Mr Batinić, you received votes to speak against HDZ, to work against HDZ, to vote for you people so that HDZ would not come to power, for you Mr Batinić and for me, you betrayed all these people and you still had to speak to us who did not sell for anything, so they offered us everything, but no face for sale did not, you sold your cheek forever, you are a disgrace to Croatian politics and you leave HSS and other honorable parties who are trying to do something absolutely at this moment in peace. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92324	Representative Batinic's injury to the Rules of Procedure, by what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92325	Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure has been violated. I think it's the fifth paragraph. It means insulting, not just the political parties and me personally, but all those colleagues who don't think like a colleague, Beljak, and you're the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92326	.../Intruder Petrov: You can have different opinions./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92327	No, no, this isn't about opinion. I respect the differences of opinion and I have spoken here many times from this pay phone and today I have said that we respect differences, but also that others respect differences, but this, the words used by my colleague Beljak, you hurt the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92328	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that every parliamentary representative has the right to state his opinion, whether it's someone else's or not, but if you think the Rules of Procedure has been broken, you have the right to address it, you already know which committee. Thank you. Can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92329	So it's also a practice to announce in writing that I'm going to be looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's all I've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92331	Let's move on, it's HSS Representatives' Club, dear colleague Mladen Madyer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92332	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Is Pishcorn a forgotten case? Citizens complain about non-transparentity and eco-communications of an outdated project. We're with the HSS. We regularly warn of problems with Cookies. The locals are complaining about the constant smell, the fish in the nearby Gliboki stream, and it's because of the Pishkornica dump. How will our citizens know that? In the stream analysis there are deviations but they are not significant, we could hear Pishkornica say that on TV. In order to be significant when in the monitoring analyses carried out regularly, neither for surface nor for... no maximum concentrations for most harmful elements are indicated for air as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The rule for, say, arsenic simply doesn't exist. They admitted, however, that according to the last measure of water in the Gliboki stream, neither upriver nor downriver from the dump, it literally says in the explanation, not good. What does that mean? Which means the water's not good? Since there is less than a kilometer of water supply, there is a kilometer of food factory Podravka, a factory of children's food, a factory of Belupo, a settlement of 200 m. So the analyses are publicly available but there it is impossible to read the limit values. The conclusion of the competent bodies simply, the water is not good but it is not dangerous for health. I guess they're warning me there's no reason we're not gonna die of her just not good. I think they might be ashamed to make such a statement. Fortunately, many of us in HSS have been dealing with the case of Piškornica for years, so we can run a comparative analysis of previous years. e.g. The arsenic can be seen to be 25. 11. 2014 values from 0,001 shouldn't be higher than 24. 11. 2016 came to 24.7 so that today at the last measurement 1.5 means still 100 times more than 2014 and 2015. At Piškornica, somewhere around 530 000 tonnes of waste that has been accumulated since 1982 during 2016 and 2017, piles have suddenly started to grow because instead of the tens of thousands of tonnes so far, the number of trucks as well as the garbage has grown to ten. There is a waste in Piskornica from nearby counties and even from Rijeka. As the garbage grew, the company's account increased and former CEO Jozinovic paid even a million kunas without the owner's knowledge. The money hasn't returned yet, shut up, the question of whether HDZ is protecting this, whether the HDZ is guarding most of this House. In addition, we would like to see whether the waste from 4 counties, Koprivnica-križevska, Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska and Međimurska will be taken care of in the centre which is expected to take care of the waste from 4 counties, Koprivnica-križevska, Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska and Međimurska or, according to the implementation of the waste management plan 2017 to 20222, which the Government adopted... in Piškornica to take care of and waste from Bjelovarska and Virovitica County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Supervisory board member Mihaela Juranic recently said that they are familiar with the decision taken by the government last year but that the project... The pee is projecting for four counties and currently there are no changes to the issue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to project for another two counties, she added that the founder would decide. Mr. Chairman, you're coming from Bjelovar, you're taking this trash, we've had enough of ours, you're taking root, you're getting clean water, you're giving clean air to the Podravs, and this is how you accidentally blew up trash in Pishkornica, and nobody even fits, this just happened to fall out of my bag. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92333	Please pick this up, someone else will have to pick you up, since you're so worried about the little man, come and pick this up. ... So you didn't throw it there, you're here, you're a conscientious parliamentary representative, you take care of everything, come and pick this up, come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now let's go to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of the HSS esteemed colleague Mladen Madjer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92335	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to talk a little bit about Minister Butkovic's statement on the continuation of road construction from Križevci to Koprivnica, giving it a fast road, a slow road or there is currently no road, so here I am especially talking to colleagues from II. election units, I'm telling them not to support the budget for next year unless there's enough money to design the road to Koprivnica. So, the construction of the fast road of Koprivnica-Križevci, has been running for, unfortunately, 15 years. Only Koprivnica is detached from the central state, and that's inadmissible. Otherwise, Podravci were good when Croatia was to be fed during the Homeland War, they were good when it was necessary to defend Croatia, and now unfortunately they are in the last place. We are not satisfied with one tape, it is difficult to build both Podravs and Prigorjes who must travel on this road. Since I'm traveling down that road, I know how dangerous she is, how many hundreds of trucks and where there are no legs. Here, a few days ago Minister Butkovic announced a continuation of road construction and announced serious works but hope is, you know, as hope is said, but I won't be free in this House, so I won't say what hope is. So much expected fast road waiting for a long number of years will finally get a sequel but unfortunately only to Klostr Vojakovsky, where there is more Koprivnica. It is regrettable that Minister Butkovic believes that our road has no burden, and that there is enough to set up one strip, and since we know that Koprivnica is an industrial city, the town of Podravka, Casanina, and we know which industry Koprivnica has. The statement, Mayor Korena, Deputy Mayor of Sobota and Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Butkovic, at the very least, were humiliating when they announced the construction of the road from Križevci to Koprivnica. As I have learned from the Croatian roads, so only shares will be built from the Križevci to the Military Kloštar, the stock will be finished right next to the election, so let's stop cheating on our troubled people. Therefore, respected colleagues, Branko Hrg, Damir Felak, Željko Lacković, colleague Anka Mrak, colleague Maras, colleague Babic, please do everything possible to ensure at least 290 million kuna in the budget for the construction of a fast road in 2019. And if it's less money, then nothing will be done. Only a ransom if the minister does not know, the purchase of land for the fast road is about EUR 20 million, and an additional 10 million of kuna is needed to resolve property-legislative relations. If for that, he doesn't find any money in this budget, Mr. Hrg, you don't have to call me in the media if I'm going to support the budget, but not for 2 million kuna, as planned for the Podravs, but only if it's 290 million. I call for you not to raise your hand for a budget where the fast road is not in the short term, in the medium term, but is actually in the long-term plan, so the statement that the amount of traffic shows that the road with four lanes that collects from the two-way is not necessary at the moment. The construction of the two-way road will achieve the goal of transport connection between Koprivnica and the additional two strips will be built when all the conditions are obtained, so I think it is scandalous, that what is done, that it is completely missed, unprepared and uncoordinated county policy conducted by the County with its associates, and so let us give Podravci the road as they deserve, and here, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, these are images of all the accidents that took place on the road from Križevci to Koprivnica, means that the statements of Minister Butkovic are not correct, and we know how much the road load is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92336	The next Club of Representatives of the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92337	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to talk about one of the fundamental values of every society that wants to say for itself that it is democratic, which is the value of freedom of speech, and in particular the attitude of the media towards it. Freedom of speech, freedom of the media, freedom of opinion. Due to its at least nominal importance because the real importance in Croatian society today is completely ruined, I will first talk about public service. About the public media that we all serve with our money, which through the fee is funded by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, or I will talk about HRT. About a media that, unfortunately at this point, did not fulfil its function at all because on HRT every difference of opinion is suppressed, each difference is a different attitude. And we were best able to see this on one recent example, the cancellation of the esteemed journalist Hrvoje Zovko, who is the very intentional director, i.e. the president of the Croatian Journalist Society. The journalist was fired because on public television he dared to step down from her declared editorial policy, which is the policy of glorifying one political option, only one political option and not even those of the entire ruling party, but its blackest, most recent body. But still, with the tolerance of those who should be concerned in Croatian culture and Croatian media. It is my duty and obligation by my political party to point out and condemn such phenomena. The public media must be public and available to all, the public media must act for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia regardless of their political option, to their worldview, to their faith, to their nation, to the color of the skin, or whatever else. HRT today is not and we all need to say it clearly together. But I'm not gonna stop at that. The great American lawyer Oliver Wendell Holmes said a hundred years ago that freedom of speech has some limits and that you can't shout fire at the theater and then after the stampede that will come to justify that it was your freedom and your right. Well, as you cannot shout fire and expect to go unpunished, so you must not propagate what is spoken in the entire orderly and democratic world by hate speech. In 2017, in Germany, one politician of their radical right party was sentenced to prison, conditional on 6 months for publicly showing a Nazi tattoo. He was convicted of fostering racial hatred, in Germany, in the country, as my esteemed colleague just said, in which Croatian citizens flee from this country for several reasons, in Germany. In Germany, it is not tolerated, 2017 there is a penalty for such treatment. At the same time, a year later, in 2018, in Croatia, a man who has tattooed an old German greeting sieg heil is ready to proudly display the same tattoo from one of our most watched commercial televisions. As I pointed out at the beginning of this debate that public service violates the freedom of speech of an individual when, for obvious, political reasons, it drives a journalist who has a different opinion, I will also point out that this kind of conduct of commercial television is not acceptable, neither in the spirit of democracy or tolerance. The hate speech, colleagues and colleagues, is not acceptable. He doesn't and can't have protection. The hate speech must not be tolerated. That is why, from this pay phone, I call on both public service and commercial television to think about the messages sent by their actions to Croatian society and to realize that democracy is a fragile plant that is very difficult to grow, but very easy to destroy. I'll finish with one appeal, and gentlemen of the HRT will be dismissed by Hrvoje Zovka. Dear gentlemen of Nova, don't let your hate spread in your program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92338	Thank you very much. That would be the end of today's work. We will continue on Wednesday, 26 September, as I have already said by supplementing the agenda at 9.30 p.m., and after that will be the first point of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, with the final draft of the law by emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 415. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92339	We're going to the sixth debate now. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92340	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I will join the congratulations, although I think of course the President of the Parliament should do it, invite all of us to congratulate the police on 29.9. St. Michael, Police Day. But I'm going to have this previous debate, it's great that you've told it all together, but at the old celebration, it's not living. In 24.8th, Minister Bozinovic presented to the government a report on work, police operations. That same day, there was a murder on TTTS in Split. That same day, there was an accident in front of the directorship in Ilica. The same day, the transcripts of Mrs. Dalic came out. That same day, the second day, there was a fire in Rebashtica. On that same day, the squadrons, which unfortunately included a police officer, were beating up a man who had not yet come out of a coma in Slavonia. And that's something that's facts. It's something that statistics can't kill with anything and can't be talked about a safe country where armed accounts have become everyday. In which, in front of a building where the minister meets regularly with people who belong to the criminal, he doesn't even know who the members are, or who the representatives of the representative unions are, and so on, justice, etc., and the same are later found on the defendant's bench. What's true and there comes to knives, killing and things like that. Real figures on 100% increase in the number of suicides in the Republic of Croatia should be concerned by this House. We're talking in a way that we're willing to talk in Parliament because we think it's not just a police job. We have exactly 4.5 million of the same, or less, but about the same as in Norway, they have 8400 cops, we have over 20 grand. The truth is also that the moves are not made on a reserve police matter in which there could be 7300 people who shouldn't even have a problem with accommodation because they would be engaged, of course, as needed, in the organisation has not progressed. And we still have fewer patrols than necessary. The 18 thousand kuna vests were not purchased but rented and still not realised. Of course they're the most expensive vests in the world. It is true that such money that you only compare one country can afford but there are no 3,000 officers on the ground who could wear it. Because every job in the police is multiplied times four. So when you look at how many people in Dubrava are in Zagreb or anywhere else, then you will see that it is unnecessary. Command vehicles, helicopters after 30 years, Tovarnik, Trilj, all possible accommodation facilities it was all made and made by the means we received from Schengen. Using European money is not the only thing that should be presented. The minister should finally stop being the first police officer in Croatia, paint with smaller quantities of marijuana because not even police chiefs are doing it, let alone ministers. They need to be congratulated, they need to be told well, boys, that you did it, but there's no need for him to do it. What I'm trying to say is that when police helicopters have to fly over a school in Vukovar and when we have a situation that only five days of secret data collection measures, when former police officers use their knowledge and when you in this country are not sure if they're going to leak such information, I think that's what it says about us being not a safe country. But we want to discuss it here. And Minister Bozinović, who at the end of the 8th month, represents a report to the government and himself here from these benches, spoke about how it should be done in time, will not appear today on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, as he has never appeared under any law here in the Croatian Parliament, so he will not present a report on the conduct of police affairs in which we should together discuss how to get out of this situation and really be a safe country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92341	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Branko Grcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92342	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. 7 days ago we held a debate, the first debate on tax reform although it is not, therefore, about tax changes better said in our system and I would like to say, after and comment and I would say, to the public, therefore, the votes of the people and because of these people, who speak and are not satisfied with the proposed, I want to say at least 2 things. First, I urge you both as a majority and government to think about it and to give up the change in income tax, which will lead to a rise in salaries of only 20,000 people with the highest salaries in the country. It is not something that the Croatian people want at this time, it is heard at every turn. So find a way, and we have also suggested one of these ways, that there is a growing salary for a much larger number of people in the country, because right now it is such a situation, that trade unions and workers and employers agree that because of the alarming situation in the labour market, wages should be increased. We have suggested that the personal deduction from 3800 rise to 5000 kn, that will cost the state about 2 billion kuna, and 2 billion kuna, we have, because the government announced, taking down the total VAT rate by 1% point, which is exactly about 2 billion kuna. In this way, wages would be paid at least, so up to 17.5 thousand would increase 330 kn per month or somewhere cumulatively 4000 kn per year, which is a more serious increase and far greater than what you are offering now. For all salaries above $17.5 thousand, this increase would be about 500 kn or at an annual level of about 6,000 kn more in our workers' pocket. That's how you can solve this first problem. The other problem that has also come into our eye and is insinuating us, and the blisters and the citizens, you could see it in media reports this day, is that this effect, on local self-government, wants to compensate, in a way that 5 times increases the limit of taxation of a small private, tenant. This is not the way, that, now, for 4 times, it hits the tourist sector, as one of the most important sectors in the country, since you've increased the VAT rate from 13% to 25%, that you've increased your residence tax, that you've increased your residence tax in nautical tourism, for those biggest boats even 10 times, from 1500 to 15000 kn and now a fourth blow, a major blow to over 100,000 small tenants, where their tax on 1500 kn per bed increases. I have calculated for one modest apartment with four beds, which is your total cost with a tourist tax, which is now £2400, growing to €7380. Well, it's not a quality relationship, nor is it a sustainable relationship with these people, because a large number of these people, I say responsibly, I am from this period that is the most touristic, that the vast majority of these people survive, therefore, the rag of the home budget. And that's why, on behalf of these people, on behalf of those, a large number of 100,000 tenants, of course, where there are also those professional ones, whose only job is on behalf of these small, smallest, please the government, here I literally ask the government to stay away from it, or at least if it's an increase, then that increase should be to a reasonable extent, not five times. That story, that will be decided by local self-government units, I beg you, you're the one who defines the framework now. If you allow local self-government to tax on the bed, some will use it, I ask you what is wrong with the tax. I am a witness, here, that in this term, Mayor Split, there has been an increase in the cut to 15%, why? Because the framework is defined by law, so the mayor can do it. Why can't the people of Dubrovnik, more of our Croatian citizens, go to the walls? Well, because the price has already increased to over 200 kn. We can't run politics like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92343	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92344	Mr. Peja Grbin, please, on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92345	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. I will not talk about the day of the teacher, it is my colleagues Hajdukovic and Glasovac have already done, I will talk about something that has been in the focus of the Croatian public for the past few days and I think it should be there because it is a serious affair, a serious abuse that strikes the very foundations of Croatia as a rule of law. For days, colleagues and colleagues, Croatia has been talking about an extremely dangerous story, and this is now a notorous SMS affair. However, the affair did not just stop at text messages, the affair did not just stop at the tragic fake of messages that, in order to defile others, were waved by notorous Mr. Mamic. It's an affair, and I have to say, unfortunately, because as a member of the Republic of Croatia, I don't appreciate it when I find out about such abuses, that affair has gone much further. She showed all the mockery of the Republic of Croatia's security system. She showed that criminal proceedings fall in Croatia. She showed that in Croatia, criminals are exposed to police activity. She showed how the files were missing. This affair has shown all the mockery of Croatia. It showed a mockery of her security apparatus but showed a mockery of Croatian politics. Because in the centre of this affair stands one man, our colleague, one politician, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, another HDZ man, namely, her vice president, Mr. Millian Brkic. The man for whom we can read today that at a time when he was under the protection of former HDZ president, as an employee of the SOA, he glazed and clothed the agency, but not only that, at the same time, with millions of transactions, you're looking after the shares, you've made a huge fortune. Gentlemen of the HDZ, you were always the first to react to the unauthorized behavior of others. And you threw mud at them easily. Now it is time for you to look in the mirror and answer a simple question to the Croatian public, and that is to say do you support all that is being burdened by Mr. Brkić, do you support all this that is happening in the police force, in the DORH? Gentlemen of the HDZ, do you support abuse? Do you support the disclosure of official secrecy? Do you support fake SMSs? Do you support the entirely convenient disappearances of the file? Do you support police abuse? Do you support the abuse of a security intelligence device almost always, almost always when you're in power? But that question should also be referred to your coalition partners because the question is whether they, when they already support you in everything else, support you in that as well. If you support the HDZ gentlemen with your attachments this way, it's okay, we didn't expect anything better from you anyway. But if you don't support me, surprise me. Surprise all of us, do one thing at last. Let's start by clearing up this mud, these swamps. Start with a little gesture. Start to distance from everything that Mr. Miljan Brkic symbolizes at the moment. Make it impossible for him to, for example, learn from a pay phone, from this bench where he should sit first among the equals. Let's get him out of here. You can, for example, replace him from the post of vice president of the HDZ, as vice president of the Parliament. Show that you care about a modern, decorated Croatia in which the right and protection of that right comes first, do something. Otherwise, if you do nothing, if you keep your mouth shut and don't act, you'll show only one thing, that everything that's being burdened by Mr. Brkic is not an accident, it's not an exception, it's a rule of your conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92347	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Franco Vidovic, the SPD Representatives' Club, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92348	I thank the President of the Parliament. I am here in front of the SDP Club to warn of an unsustainable affair situation in Croatia and the state summit itself and to ask for the establishment of an investigative commission. Unfortunately, from a lot of affairs, SMS, Agrokor, Borg, elite prostitution, hotmail, I'm not sure what kind of an affair that committee would be associated with, that is, to call it at all. Perhaps the best investigative parliamentary commission to change HDZ's habits in power and change the system. This is not only about Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Millian Brkic, this is not about HDZ President Andrej Plenkovic, this is about the fact that the modus operand of HDZ has become a modus operand of the system, that our entire system has been poisoned in fact. Some in this country are allowed everything, some are not allowed anything. While entrepreneurs and converts are being harassed, they are being shut down for trade because of the kuna, two or three surpluses in the register, while these procedures, state administrations, unsaved jobs, people working with those same craftsmen and entrepreneurs, while state inspectors charge taxes from taxpayers beyond all rules and regulations, literally taking money from the tax debtors' register, a situation where the government official has no explanation for his property is a perfectly normal thing. It is a society that we built in 28 years. How never in the judiciary loses the file of 1,000 and 1000 Croatian citizens, against whom the executive procedure is conducted by the state or its companies, interestingly such files are never lost, always found by the perpetrator. Only those files that link politics, escort ladies, state institutions are lost, bitten by the constant pressures of politics and adaptation to various situations. In our country, it is normal for the meter to claim a few months ago during the hotmail affair, that it has no idea about the group borg. Just 10 days later, to claim that he had been notified of everything, they even had meetings together. If the diameter behaves like that, then what's weird is that there's a deputy director, the police, different from his colleagues with the halls. Which is strange in this monster by the government of the state administration, politics and justice, which we have created and which only serves those in power, not the citizens of this country, not the Croatian people, not the people who build this country by their work, effort, respect for the law, tax pay, cut and all the forces of unnecessary parafiscal imposes, which we have imposed in politics. This system serves only those in power. What we're surprised is that for high-ranking Parliament official, there's a story that he's brought into the country unregistered and unregistered millions of kunas, in violation of customs and all the force of the other regulations of several states. We're surprised that the bridge doesn't answer key questions, but it only talks about beautiful things that don't cause the nation's grace. What is really happening in Croatia. How did we become so depraved and depraved? Not the citizens of Croatia and the people, but us, who act on behalf of that people. A set of new documents came out yesterday, in the case of Agrokor, which shows that the Borg have been engaged since 1 April, 10 days before the appointment of the state commissioner, no one reacts to that. The state's attorney's office has already said that with a group of borgs and a hotmail affair, everything's fine and proper. A message from the public through the state's attorney's claim, Croatian citizens, Croatian peoples, so you do, it's the right thing to do. You trade information, furniture business, you get into conflict of interest. That's right. I believe that in Croatian politics there are honest and well-intentioned people, I am sure that the fat majority of them are among Croatian citizens. We call upon such people, regardless of political colors, to stop together this aferatic disgusting story, to oppose us making fools with various reasons, and do not forget, nor did Mr Plenkovic become president of HDZ without Mr Brkić, nor did Mr Brkic, become vice president of the Parliament without Mr Plenkovic, all of these are the different fingers of the same hand, which persistently... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92349	The Club of Representatives of the SDP reported its position on behalf of the club, the representative Maras will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Somehow in the shadow of all these events with an affair of SMS, a paraintelligence underground and these conflicts that take place within HDZ, which are deeply destroying faith in state institutions, the news that was published 2 days ago is that the contract within Agrokor related to consultants Alix partners that we have warned from from the beginning that something was wrong, that obviously some agreements existed behind the whole story and that 500 000 kunas in some way agreed jobs for those close to HDZ, former vice presidents of the government and the president at the end of HDZ and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, that these transactions were agreed, that there was no special competition or analysis or something that would ensure that it was transparent in the way that they should be. The contracts published show that Alix partners were not only chosen, so the formal selection was made and probably contracted on 25 April 2017 and the job had been covered since the 10th of April of the Theist of the year. So the contract covered the job from the first day Mr. Ramljak sat there, so they were bound and apparently certain relationships from that moment on, from the very beginning and it was slowly surfaced by what was clear to everyone the whole time that they were following the situation, which is that one group of people made a business environment under cover of the crisis in Agrokor to ensure themselves very, very lucrative jobs. And now the question arises if it's so clear, if it's clear that Alix's partner issued the first invoice just 2 days after they signed the formal contract, and in 5 days after that, he issued the second invoice and put out the invoices worth 7.5 million kuna, meaning what they earned in 5 days, earning 7.5 million kunas, which could justify the job, it's obvious that they were connected to those who passed the laws, and there's a question why they answered those questions and a closed circle that is very clear, there are people who wrote the laws, there are people who got obvious jobs because they were supposed to get them, and there are subcontractors who are these same people who wrote the laws, so that this whole job is done. So the whole circle is closed, you can see how the money went, you can see that it's a huge amount of money, and the question is why it doesn't react to the State's attorney's office and not respond, and it doesn't examine people, and it doesn't reveal this connection, the intertwine of interest, and in the end, the big money that was drawn, and in some way Agrokor has provided these companies and these people who have been callin' themselves borg and were basically connected from the very beginning, and they've secured themselves enormous profits. So it's something that can't stay just like that, unexplained, can't be left without a reaction and unless it's done by institutions like DORH or some other bodies then the Croatian Parliament should. So we have to give people answers, you have to know, and you have to set standards for the future so that it never happens again. And I can't just accept it any more to justify saving our company by saving 1,000 jobs, letting someone do a 500 million-dollar job. It's inadmissible, the government shouldn't tolerate it, especially to its people, meaning to its connected persons directly to say from the former Deputy Prime Minister's society and to no one. So it's like nothing happened to anyone. And for this reason, the SDP Representatives' Club will insist on further resolution of the case, on all information, so that our public knows about it and ultimately prevent it from ever happening again in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92351	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92352	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can tell you that I am calm now, when I see that my colleague Bacic will analyse all 9 previous exhibitions on behalf of the Clubs and give a summary and comment and then I am sure that it will be like a point on and or sugar at the end, so that I can freely access my presentation. Today we would like to warn of a major problem that will be felt by the citizens of Zagreb next month and those of all visitors to the City of Zagreb, which will come during the adventures in Zagreb, which is 30.11. The closure of the Zagreb Rotor was announced for a year and 2 m. Otherwise some countries build amazing architectural wonders in a year and two months. and our city authorities in the City of Zagreb are closing down the rotor and will make an unprecedented collapse of traffic, because it is not adequately prepared and the infrastructure that could handle it in this way and I believe that many of us here and you who are coming to the City of Zagreb from the direction of Karlovac and Dalmatia are concerned about it, and most are concerned about our fellow citizens, who are simply already seeing that there will be an incredible problem. And we call on the city authorities here not to close the rotor until adequate infrastructure is provided and to access the only logical solution in the city of Zagreb as soon as possible, which is the construction of the Jarun Bridge. So, unfortunately, we're waiting for some of our mayor's friends to open up construction companies dealing with bridge construction to access the construction of the Jarun Bridge that was already supposed to be over, I'd say maybe 10 years ago. As long as it's just more construction companies, then they're doing rotors, roads, three, four times the same, etc., but unfortunately, our citizens have nothing. I also call on not only the city authorities but also Mr. Bačić and HDZ from the state level to engage in solving this problem because Zagreb County and the Karlova County and a large number of people are also covered, meaning hundreds of thousands of people. I think the Ministry of Transport must be involved in solving this problem and allow for more trains, the suburban railway must function better to solve the problem as painlessly as possible. So we warn here in 30 days or more than that Zagreb will be in traffic collapse. We ask that the rotor not be closed until these problems are resolved, that things agree with the Ministry of Transport, strengthen suburban railways and railway lines towards other cities that could possibly solve this problem and thus access the systemic solution of this problem. And how quickly some things can be resolved shows us the mayor every day trading with individual MPs so every little someone enters the club of MPs 365 which suits HDZ and Bandic does the dirty work for HDZ. So I am deeply convinced that Bandic is in agreement with counterpart Bačić and Andrej Plenkovic and that he is working for them on the collected majority and thus providing Zagreb's political money trade with Andrej Plenkovic with peace. What this easy laugh is, as he is clean and basically Bandic is his fixer. If you know what that means, he solves things for him, pays for various counties, cities and municipalities and provides for most. And our state's attorney's office is looking at it, it's normal for them, so it's normal for someone to get a lawn in their municipality, it's normal for someone to get books and then, later or for some event, and then for Mr. Bačić's HDZ and Jandrokovic's and Plenkovic to raise their hands and pay for it by the citizens of Zagreb. Well, come on, brother, Mr. Bačić, once you say it, we don't want that anymore, we don't want that kind of support, we don't need that, people would appreciate you more, don't say it. Don't buy Bandic for HDZ anymore and make a political trade in the money of the citizens of the City of Zagreb and provide us with the majority. This would show people that they do not have to leave Croatia, that Croatia is a normal country. Because this is how you support Mr. Bačić and Mr. Plenkovic, unfortunately, drives people from Croatia. It's time for such a policy to be said once in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92354	The next colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, is in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92355	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the SDP club, I will talk about corruption specifically political, inefficient judiciary and partnered capitalism. Another European survey has recently been published, which further confirmed the previous one. That Croatia is a deeply corrupt state with inefficient justice and that is precisely why all young and educated people leave Croatia. Everything that has happened in the past days, from the SMS affair, the elite prostitution to the new evidence of the epic partner undertaking of the Troika Plenković-Dalić-Ramljak in the Hot Mail Borg affair and the vultureing of the Agrokor and the verdict of the warlord to the day-old colonel, raises questions about where Croatia is going? The SMS affair obviously aims at two things, one is an internal HDZ account, the other is a cover-up of the Borg affair, but whatever you're looking at in these two affairs, the fact is one. Both lead to the very top of HDZ. This is HDZ's way of thinking and how it works in HDZ. War profiteers Ivo Sanader or Andrej Plenkovic, anyway. It's all the same HDZ. HDZ's power is both a synonym and for joint corruption efforts and conflicts of interest to the harm of Croatian citizens. Tudjman, Sanader, Karamarko, Plenkovic, HDZ is changing the presidents but remains a movement that holds Croatia bound by conflict of interest and corruption. The only new thing is that today's para-intelligence and para-political underworld with its shorts reaching out as we see even to Pantovic, we know that it goes down to the patriots of the fugitives in Hercegovina, it starts dancing its own network and around the prime minister. At the same time, the judiciary makes judgments that legalise political corruption and trade at the highest level, at the level of this assembly, because 10 parliamentary deputies are coming from the club with one, credible. It's a picture of Croatia today. Is it true that someone here in Croatia honestly wonders why young people leave? Croatia has not been kidnapped but is trapped in a network of political trade, corruption, para-intelligence and para-political interests of the HDZ. We are all on the move, at least we from the opposition in this assembly to say enough, to remind from day to day of all HDZ affairs and to ask that the judiciary finally become effective. This is a small contribution from the SDP club. So HDZ has always been by dangerous intentions through a party whose top was networked into a corrupt FIMI Media corrupt octopus, a party that is networked with a para-intelligence and parapolitical underworld, an epic partner enterprise in the Borg Hot mail affair. Let's remind ourselves of some of these affairs. Hypo 5 billion, we saw a war profiter making it easy because he was one day in the Homeland War, in the uniform he was painting for a magazine. It's a defense attorney, it's an easy environment for a war profiter. It's Croatia today. It's an INA affair. FIMI Media, the entire party on the defendant's bench, has been convicted but that's how our judiciary has been restored to the beginning and who knows how long it's gonna take. Highways, double-painted tunnels, Croatian railways, Roncevic trucks, Čakovština, Imostroj, Salonite, Adriatic Bank, Mediko, Shimatzu, Harmon build, double-colored tunnels, but in all these affairs, colleagues from HDZ know everything but do not know and hear the SOS calls of Uljanik and Third May, credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92356	Thank you, colleague Shuker, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92357	Art. 238, Mr. Vice President. However, I don't know which article to sanction a parliamentary representative if he says it's a crime after a pay phone in the Parliament for a powerful acquittal. A colleague of Jovanovic, out of human respect for the people who are accused in the affair of trucks, they are legally freed and you have no right to insult anyone here. And you can think of whatever you want, and in that contest, one in the River, and the contest in Slavonia or vice versa, that would be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92358	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure have not been injured, there you go, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92359	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Shuker, sub-Article 238, appeared without any personal mention and spoke of something that he absolutely had no right to report in this case of free speech. ... He's insulting again, and I'm asking him to be warned. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92360	Slowly, slowly, this is the wear-out, I beg you, please. Please... [[Invader Jovanovic: Truth hurts fellow Shucker, it hurts the truth.]] Thank you, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague Jovanovic and my colleague Shuker, please, everyone has the right to speak their mind, someone is emotional, someone isn't, we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92361	Let's move on, now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, two MPs will speak, first is a colleague Vidovic and then a colleague named Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92362	Thank you, dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to talk here in front of the SDP about the effects of the House Rental Act. So it's a law that was voted militarily in the 6th month. this year, with great recommendations. I must point out, the SDP then represented the view that this law is not good, that it is not fair, that it should be at least in the 3rd reading if not something more drastic than that. But the ruling coalition did not accept it then. The ruling coalition has voted practically by force, I think with 72, 73 votes, and today I have the results of that law. I stress, there are 10,000 Croatian citizens, 2,500 families. People who are already doing well in the elderly, who belong to the elderly, who are mostly retired, according to the calculations they received, so by 1.9 this year, their rent increases first by about 20% and from 1.9 this year to 1.9 next year, practically by 120%. And now we ask you, where does a pensioner, a pensioner, the people I say already belong to the elderly population, who have their health problems, where do they get the money and pay 4 or 5000 kuna for the rent? That's what I'm asking in this House, looking you all in the eye and stressing, it's 10,000 Croatian citizens. The state is a problem itself, no matter what it was called. And there were more. The problem she caused herself simply shifted to the back of the citizens and got away. And now we have the situation we have. They offer people nursing homes and stuff, but they don't even have the conditions for some people who are 60, 62, 65 in retirement being disabled, like this, like that, to go to a nursing home? So that's no solution. That is why I call on the ruling once again and beyond all deadlines to think well about the situation you have caused. Also, as well as how good the law is saying, and that in the end he did not solve the crucial problem of all when we were already making changes and supplementing the law, he did not solve the crucial problem practically of all tenants in the Republic of Croatia but that is who pays the reserve. Who's paying for the reservation? We know what the reserve is, investing practically in the property of the maintenance owner. Who's paying for the reservation? Now, that's not the law he solved, but he decided to throw the pensioners out on the street. Now, here's what you'd do to my colleague, Bauku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92363	Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92364	I thank Mr. President, so I will use a minute to address you directly because of the scandalous fact that a state institution plans to sue for a defamation parliamentary representative for something spoken in the House. This Regulation shall enter The constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly states that a representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion or vote in the Croatian Parliament. If the state institution or institution of which is the founder of the state, which is KBC Split does not know the Constitution, then at least those who set up the administrative council, which is the Minister and the Ministry of Health, warn them of this and if they do not, then I expect you, President of the Parliament, to protect the parliamentary representatives from the mobbing state institutions because of the spoken word in the Croatian Parliament. Otherwise, it will have a devastating effect on freedom of speech in this Chamber and will, of course, have consequences for certain political relations which I believe is not necessary. So here again, Mr. President of the Parliament, I expect you to give the treasure, and if you need to warn a little bit more strongly, warn the state institution that they are working against the Constitution and if they don't listen, I expect them to be removed responsible in that institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92365	We're going to the last debate, SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92366	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I have answered the free word to warn one, I have no other words than the faceless fraud that the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund has made towards local units that have made a public call published on 6.4, so for the purchase of containers for separate collection of waste that included, among other things, co-financing of garden composters of up to 85%. So, units of local self-government have realised these funds, signed a contract with the Environmental Protection Fund, and here I have a contract that my local unit of the town of Pregrad signed with the Environmental Protection Fund, 23.7., and here it arrived yesterday, and it comes these days and numerous cities and municipalities in Croatia one, I cannot call it otherwise but a cold shower that despite the signed contract with the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, a memo is coming in saying that it will still not be co-financed by this purchase of composters because there is not enough funding for it. One absurd and irresponsible behaviour of state institutions that, in the situation of the budget surplus, we hear daily from parliamentary deputies ruling by state ministers of one praise, and are unable to provide the funds for which I repeat them again, but the contracts signed. Therefore, the State or the State fund does not respect its contractual obligations, trampling all that was stated in the public call. And now you have a solution to the available units of local self-government whether or not to get the composters, so in that case it goes into the purchase of a can of bio-waste and it will actually lead to an increase in the price of transportation up to 50% in some local units. The specific figures, again I'm going to mention the town of Pregrad from which I come from, that's exactly the amount I mentioned, some 36 kn of an increase in waste disposal, and with this here, the purchase of composters, we would have a separate actually separate waste separation solved and there's no need for these additional costs. The second solution, of course, is that they go on their own to get composters, and this is actually a further blow to any of the thin budgets of local self-government units that we have because of the highly decentralised state and here, another decentralisation into HDZ's way of transferring liabilities and the financial resources are unfortunately being denied. I must say that I am sorry about that in view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation on the management of municipal waste, given that the units of local self-government were obliged to make decisions on how to provide a public service for the collection of biodegradable waste. So these were all obligations that we met and now we've been denied funding in one perfidious way because we don't have any other expressions. So this is another blow to the standard of citizens, a blow to the budgets of the local self-government unit, and we ask the government of the Republic of Croatia to ask the Ministry of Environmental and Energy to withdraw this decision, to comply with its contractual obligations, to secure those funds, because otherwise it could face the lawsuits of local self-government units because, as I said once again, this is a blow to the citizens' standard through an increase in the cost of waste disposal, which unfortunately will be forced by many local self-government units because of these deprived funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u92367	Thank you. This brings us to the end of today's session, we finish our work and then end the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament, we continue as we announced yesterday, November 14th. Thank you and good-bye. SESSION FINISHED IN 14.11 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93434	Good afternoon, everyone, here's 9.30 we can start. Yes, it is. - Proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 403; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. [[Intruder: Not yet.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Zdravko Maric is here with us. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93435	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a few words about this bill of fiscal responsibility. I think everyone is very well known in 2010 for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, so a law on fiscal responsibility aimed at ensuring and maintaining fiscal responsibility and transparency and ultimately ensuring the achievement of medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances. This goal should be achieved by establishing fiscal rules and by strengthening the rules for ensuring fiscal responsibility, based on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established and implemented fiscal policy. That law introduces fiscal rules and rules to strengthen fiscal discipline and the obligation to make a declaration of fiscal responsibility for the heads of budget users at national, local and regional, regional level. What does this new law bring? In line with the recommendations of the EU Council but also of course with our experience of introducing fiscal policy, I will not call them newspapers but improvements and improvements. And this is that fiscal rules are fully aligned with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact and that independence is strengthened and the Commission's competence for fiscal policy is expanded. As regards fiscal rules, in view of the entry into full EU membership in July 2013, the Republic of Croatia was obliged to submit by the end of the same year, i.e. to transpose the provisions of the 2011 Council Directive on budgetary requirements for Member States. It's that so-called. Sixpack, which was very often mentioned in the Croatian Parliament, in national legislation, and thus achieve harmony with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. This affected the need for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which entered into force on 12 February 2014. These amendments have changed the fiscal rule in such a way that the target value of the new fiscal rule becomes the medium-term fiscal framework, i.e. the objective to be achieved according to the adjustment plan. This new law, on the basis of these changes, strengthens fiscal rules and actually defines three key fiscal rules. I will repeat again, in line with the recommendations of the EU Council and of course with our specific experiences. First rule is structural balance. The target value of the structural balance rules becomes the medium-term budgetary objective that will be achieved according to the adjustment plan in line with the EU's legally binding acts. The second rule is a rule of expenditure relating to sustainable expenditure movement, a rule that does not allow the annual growth of general budget expenditure to exceed the reference potential GDP growth rate established in accordance with legally binding EU acts. Of course, certain exemptions for certain categories of expenditure are also allowed. And the third rule of public debt. As regards public debt, the share of public debt in GDP is determined not to exceed the 60 % of GDP reference value. But as Croatia is now known as numerous other countries, it has, of course, a level of public debt that is currently above that reference value of 60%. But even then there are provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact as well as the famous Mastrictic criteria related to the introduction and countries that are in the euro area that need to have a path towards reducing public debt by dynamics that says the difference between the current level and the existing divided by 20. So one in twenty of these differences must be minimally reduced annually by that public debt. If we translate it into RH figures, you will see that our path towards reducing public debt over 2.5 and 3 years, respectively, is more than twice the last year, even three times as much as it is, or faster than prescribed by these provisions of the Growth Stability Pact. So it's an extremely valuable and important rule to have, of course, in a law like this. Temporary suspension of the application of fiscal rules will be allowed in the event of exceptional circumstances as defined by legally binding EU acts and provided that this does not endanger fiscal sustainability in the medium term. This law also defines the obligation to adhere to the recommendations of the Council of the EU during the duration of the excessive budget deficit procedure and to address the situation of excessive budget deficit and public debt. I will remind you, of course, that Croatia came out of the excessive deficit procedure last year, based on the results of fiscal policy, on the basis of the balance and balance of the state budget, or on the general government budget. I will remind you that last year's surplus of the general state was also achieved, we will soon discuss the report in the Croatian Parliament as well as the report for the first 6 months. this year, which I would say, to the most extent, and on the trail of these good results from 2017. But the key point, the resultant who led the EU to assess and evaluate and ultimately decide that Croatia is no longer in the excessive deficit procedure, is precisely indicators and results in the public debt reduction I just said. As regards the Commission for Fiscal Policy, Amendments and Law Supplements, so I repeat again from 2014, a professional and independent body following the application of a fiscal rule whose tasks are defined by a specific regulation has been introduced. So that first fiscal responsibility law, then the government, or the basis of that law, established a committee, the then fiscal policy committee, however, as it was necessary to strengthen the independence of that committee but also its role as supervisors of the application of the fiscal responsibility law, the Croatian Parliament, with the application of the beginning of 2014, was established by the Committee for Fiscal Policy as the second working body of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee for Fiscal Policy of the Croatian Parliament was replaced by the then committee, members of the commission except for the president who is now still in the current positive regulations, acting as chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget for a period of 5 years. In this new law, it continues to strengthen the independence of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which is defined as a permanent, independent and independent body. As early as July 2014, the Council of the EU also recommended that the Commission be established by decision as the second working body of the Croatian Parliament, a legal basis to strengthen its independence and extend its powers. The European Commission said that adequate financial resources should be provided for the work of the Commission. That is why, and therefore, this law defines the Commission for Fiscal Policy as a permanent, independent, independent body which performs the tasks of its work and competence set out in this law. In order to highlight the additional independence of the commission, the law stipulates that the president of the commission is elected on the basis of a public call and is organised and managed by the work of the commission professionally and has the right to pay the Vice-President of the National Election Commission and to apply the general rules on work accordingly. In order to make it more professional to carry out their tasks prescribed by this law, the Commission is intended to have employees of civil servants who carry out professional, administrative and technical tasks. The funds for the work of the commission will be provided in the state budget in the division of the Croatian Assembly in special positions. In this way, the Commission is given a stronger role of supervisors over the application of the Fiscal Responsibility Act as well as the implementation of the fiscal policy of the state as a whole with the aim of improving the overall system of public finances. It is also important to mention that the law also provides for procedures in case the Commission or the Government establish significant deviations from the fiscal rules defined by the law. There are two key situations, so. If, during the performance of its tasks, the Commission considers that there is a risk of significant deviations from the fulfilment of fiscal rules, it shall draw up a report by the Commission on the existence of risks related to the fulfilment of the fiscal rules it provides to the Government. The government will be obliged to propose to the Ministry of Finance within 45 days of the receipt of such a report to demonstrate the existence of the risk and, if it considers that it exists, it is required to propose a plan of necessary measures with implementation deadlines leading to the fulfilment of the fiscal rules. The Commission shall monitor the implementation of the plan on the basis of a report on the implementation of the necessary measures provided by the Government and again, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. The second situation is that if the comparison of macroeconomic projections with the latest available European Commission projections, the Commission finds significant deviations over a period of at least 4 consecutive year, it also draws up a report by the Commission on significant deviations in the macroeconomic and budgetary projections provided by the Government, the Government is obliged again on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance following the adoption of this report, to explain the derogations, or to take the necessary measures to improve the quality of macroeconomic projections and to report to the Commission. If, during the financial year or when drawing up medium-term budgetary documents, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, considers that there is a risk of significant deviations from the fiscal rules of the structural balance and expenditure rules laid down in this law, it is required to draw up a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the existence of risks related to the fulfilment of the fiscal rules provided to the Commission and reported by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, of course, of the Croatian Parliament. The Government is obliged to demonstrate in that report the size and causes and to propose measures that will lead to the fulfilment of fiscal rules with no later than the financial year following the year in which the derogation has been established. In the proposed way, taking into account all the objectives and obligations arising from full EU membership and a series of aspirations to create stronger fiscal frameworks in the EU, this law will contribute to the long-term sustainability of public finances. As for, I would say, the formal and technical circumstances that preceded this law should be said, of course, that the public consultation with the interested public which lasted from 16 May to 16 June of this year during which no comment was received and no proposal to supplement the text. However, in any case, today during your debate or our debate as well as in the course of the second reading, we will, of course, be glad to hear any comments, suggestions, recommendations if you consider or see that this legal framework could be further improved. But I'm going to do it one more time, which I said in the introduction, it's actually crucial about this new law actually these two elements that concern the functioning of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, and of course respect for fiscal rules. I will repeat once again, when we take the situation today in public finances, the results that we have delivered over the past 2.5 years, it is actually evident and it is clear that these rules are already now, that we are already in place and it is certain that it is good that we have between us and the legal framework that will guarantee both the medium and long term sustainability of public finances and whatever the circumstances in which we can find ourselves, whether today or tomorrow, surely, such obligations must be with the holders and managers of fiscal policy. Here, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93436	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. The first line has Mr. Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93437	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, we all support fiscal responsibility and there are good trends when the share of public debt is reduced compared to what is the height of GDP, and even faster than the European Commission expects from us, but I must say that as far as responsibility concerns, I appeal to you to give up a little bit of responsibility or not to punish people for 5, 10, 15 kuna. We're seeing a huge indignation now. A woman doesn't give or doesn't get to issue an account on a margarette 10 kuna flower in Koprivnica, 15 days closes her place. On the other hand, yesterday you proposed amendments to the law of the general tax code under which the penalty for the deficit in the register, if someone accidentally had 2 or 5 or 15 kuna less in the register, 300 thousand kuna. I think that this kind of repression and rigor instead of one, I'd say educational collaboration with entrepreneurs, craftsmen. gave more fruit than to go to the smallest bottom like this. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] Entrepreneurs and craftsmen and I appeal to you that this kind of responsibility also...... [[Thank you, Mr. Maras.]] and you do not punish. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] A sentence, please. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder Radin: These are the rules that you have made.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93438	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93439	Here, thank you very much. Your Honor, I think we've discussed this subject, and you're also familiar with it at the time of your government, that is, when you were a minister. Similar situations were, only then was it really happening to seal a pastry shop that was actually recorded for the first time for the offense. In this particular case, I allow myself to still be unable to talk about individual cases and various activities carried out by officials, inspectors of customs and tax administrations, but the fact is that according to the guidance and the recommendations we have agreed and made, there is never going to be any extravagant violations for the first time with those final measures. Therefore, in this particular case, it is a matter of several weeks of surveillance where the movement of traffic and the issuing of accounts have been monitored and a number of irregularities and violations of certain rules have been identified and this has been an ultimate measure. I don't have enough time, but if there's a replica still on this subject, I'll certainly give you some statistics to see how... Thank you very much, thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93440	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93441	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, we have a 2011 Directive that talks about commitments, I apologize, the Committee on Fiscal Policy. And this Committee on Fiscal Policy to the Proposal for this Law was not a body that was actually budgetary in a way that we are actually setting up a new Committee, a new service. What has changed since 2011 to 2018 that we have given up being a Committee that has been, as so far, as one of the Committees of the Croatian Parliament, but will become a professional body that must have space, must have its administration, must have employees, must therefore have something completely different and otherwise of 47 articles of this Law, 21 articles refer exclusively to the Committee on the Monitoring of Fiscal Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93442	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93443	Here, thank you, well-respected MPs, too. I've tried some of that and I've explained in this opening part, so here's another chance to explain a little bit. So, the Committee originally today's commission, so there's some kind of, we can call that three stages. For the first time, he was one body founded by the government of the Republic of Croatia. In the second stage, you participated in these amendments and amendments to the Law since 2013, i.e. from the beginning of 2014, when the Committee was placed at the level of the Croatian Parliament where, I repeat again, the President of the Committee is acting as chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance, the State Budget, and the other members are elected by order from different institutions. It will list, Faculty of Economics, on the principle of rotation Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Faculty of Law, Economic Institute, CNB, State Audit Office. With these changes, we are actually going to another higher level, so that independence and expertise are fully placed... that the president is elected in a public competition. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93444	Thank you. Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93445	Thank you very much. I welcome the minister and his associates. First of all, the public debt component has been made a major contribution to the financing that you have continued to implement. So, replacing the previous high interest rates that we were... and other borrowings, and it had a significant effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you can see from the downfall of public debt. However, what is missing here is actually the real impact, the impact of new employment, new jobs to help this policy, which at some point when interest starts with the upward trend, will no longer be possible. But I would point to a paradox that's happening. The number of jobs is growing, the total wage mass is growing, and then we are going to be able to reform the tax administration, such as health care, instead of having that amount growing on its own with the existing rate being sufficient, we are actually increasing you are proposing an increase in the rates for health care, which actually confirms that the real reforms in the health sector are not being implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93446	Thank you, Mr. Panenic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93447	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here's next week I hope we have a chance to talk and talk, discuss and look forward to new tax changes, this package of nine laws, and we'll touch that. Only this first part, therefore, as far as public debt is concerned, so you've been well apostrophe in terms of the drop in interest rates, which I would say, with the active public debt management policy done over the past period, over 2 billion, when the data are for the whole year, I'm sure that this trend of reducing the total cost of interest will be continued both for the benefit and for the pride, I would say, to all Croatian citizens and taxpayers, because at the level of debt we pay, 3% of GDP today we managed to reduce it certainly is too high. However, on the movement of public debt, the cost of interest actually does not affect interest, interest is an integral part of the expenditure side of the budget, so, in addition to reducing interest costs, the key element was this surplus, i.e. bringing public finances down to an unbalanced level.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93448	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93449	Thank you very much, Minister Maric. So, according to this law that you have passed in the House, there is clear that the Croatian governments and your HDZ government have completely irresponsibly dispose of the budget money and entrusted this country for the next 100 years. You now have the task and the opportunity to reduce this debt according to the European Commission's instructions, too bad you didn't do it yourself. But here I have to repeat the question, given that you are given another new opportunity, why not allow the same opportunity for Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, but you are punishing them in blood, so you are closing the flower shop for 10 kn, bakery for 24 kn, fishing for 15 kn. Is it really necessary for us to destroy people because of such small amounts, and at the same time you're darkening 10 billion kunas and you're still having a new chance? Therefore, I think you could learn from the application of this law yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93450	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93451	Thank you, Your Honor, and for the opportunity to once again announce the statistics I have been saying, so, since the beginning of this year, there has been some over 13,000 controls of different species based on fiscalisation in cash, together tax administration and customs services. On average, the percentages vary from county to county, but on average, around 45%, so almost 50% of identified irregularities. We may conclude that each other’s supervision determines a certain irregularity and noncompliance with the rules. As for the statistics of these final measures, which both tax bonds and trust the customs service, i.e. the tax administration are not expensive and are indeed the ultimate measure taken, they are at a level of 2% of the total control activities carried out. This is indeed the ultimate measure, which follows after a few weeks and an analysis of the risks and measures carried out, which then ultimately must result in, unfortunately, such measures, but I repeat 2% once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93452	Thank you. Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93453	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, there will be opportunities to discuss all these topics, which colleagues want to discuss today, for the next week. However, it is very interesting that we, as Parliamentarians, are not discussing, which may be crucial for us as Parliamentarians in this Law. And that's what the fiscal policy committee should say, that's basically our extended arm. That fiscal policy commission will make it possible in its report, and I see some colleagues and colleagues laughing, because in their mandate they have beheaded him quite a bit. This Commission on fiscal policy brings an independent assessment and an assessment of the conduct of a single country's fiscal policy. However, what is very important, which is covered by this law of fiscal responsibility. So you'll see that practically up to the smallest company in local self-government units are required to adhere to the Law on fiscal responsibility. And when we read these laws a little bit better, then you'll see these things that we want to discuss here are benign compared to what we can use this law for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93454	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93455	Thank you, Your Honor, you're right, because exactly the breadth of this law is where and where greater and exceeds these previous topics that we discussed in the replicas, but it's good to talk about these topics, too, but you're right about that part. So the breadth of this law and responsibility at all levels of governance and functioning of the state, therefore, from the central state to the local level, and to the level of course of these companies, either in the state or in local ownership. It is the very thing to particularly apostrophe, because the name of this law speaks a lot, therefore, precisely fiscal responsibility, I think that offered by experience and other countries, but above all with the experience of Croatia, we can be sure that these provisions will also contribute to further improvement and not only of responsibility, but of the overall result and functioning of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93456	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I support this approach to the appointment and competences of the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which I recall in 2012 and 2013 giving a negative assessment of the Commission for Fiscal Policy, has been negatively determined on a number of basic financial documents coming into this House, so there were no problems and this has not caused any damage. With this appointment of the Commission for Fiscal Policy, it gives it greater importance and in some ways sharpens the government's responsibility through this commission to the Croatian Parliament. But this is not the only range that has made me report for the replica, but what my colleague Shuker said, which is that this law significantly tightens responsibility, not only at the state level, but at the level of the unit of local self - government. In this I see the meaning of this law and in this sense I support
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93458	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93459	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your comment and your question, or suggestions. This particular element of increased responsibility is something to be apostrophe, with what was mentioned earlier, so, no matter what we apostrophe, there are also recommendations from the EU Council, not just for Croatia, for many other countries. I am here, above all, saying that this is exclusively our product, so our reflection, because beyond this law, which we are discussing today, and I hope that we will bring it to the Croatian Parliament or that you will vote, these fiscal rules in practice are already working today, so we are not making up anything new, we are already in our own right today and the European Commission has not come or any other foreign factor has opened our eyes and enlightened our minds that it is necessary and necessary to reduce public debt in Croatia and reduce interest costs. I repeat once again, the founding state where we pay 12 billion kuna a year, which is the budget, the overall budget of the Ministry of Science, education at that time. We've cut by over 20% today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93460	Thank you very much. Mrs. Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the sustainability of public finances has also led to surpluses, I think it is worth reminding today, what is forgotten, and that is only one of the evidence that the government has made very responsible access to public finances and has managed them very neatly. I welcome and strengthen the commission that will, in some ways, be corrective, as much as some of my colleagues here are embarrassed by it. And it is a good macro-economic projection of the government that has proved to be actually very similar to those given by the European Commission shows that we are on the right track. Likewise, positive ratings by the rating agency show that we were fiscally responsible. No less important, and the businessmen who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia also see the financial stability of the country, so I think this law is related to it. The spending of public money must be transparent and I think everyone must understand that they must be fiscally responsible, so from the central state level to the local units.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93462	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93463	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here is the same good topic you have opened, as a rule when we talk about fiscal responsibility, we are talking about the responsibility of spending budgets, the implementation of budgets. But it is equally important to have responsibility in planning the budget itself and these budgetary projections. So not only from the perspective of the state budget itself and what we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament, but from the perspective of the total economy. Because the Croatian economy is also primarily monitoring government projections, i.e. from the central government of the projection of macroeconomic economics, projections of budget and among other things is calculating into its projections, and in the rule of economics when it is doing projections it works minimally for the next 3.5, 7, sometimes of course for several years. And that's why it's very important that these projections are credible, that they be responsible and credible, that I think again, I'm going to repeat once again, the results we've been getting over the past two years actually show that we're exactly on that track, not a small number of times and better than what we originally predicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93464	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93465	Thank you very much. Minister, stability financial or fiscal responsibility is important, but the fact that we have good regulations before this is your proposal, but the fact is that 10 billion kunas of bonds were used without cover by Agrokor, without cover. And there was a stability council. I personally filed a criminal report. And as long as we have today, here you can follow in the media, 10,000 kunas to those who didn't report to a vervain in Dalmatia that they would be reading grapes, punishment. How much incentive is there? And those measures that were supposed to go to those farmers went for example. to Agrokor? You need to know more about this because you're a government official now, and you worked in Agrokor. Intransparency and financial irresponsibility grace Croatia. I'm because the governor and the stability council didn't do their job in the case of bonds without cover they filed criminal charges. This country is full of fiscal corruption [[Thank you very much, Mr. Bulj, thank you. Mr. Minister, here's your answer.]] [[Thank you, Mr. Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93466	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here at the end of your work you actually confirmed that you didn't, not to say wrong, because let's not confuse the two committees. This is the Commission for Fiscal Responsibility, that is, fiscal policy, there is the Commission for Financial Stability. It is the second body established by the CNB, whose members are representatives of the governors via a joke of governors, 2 representatives of the HANFA, and one representative of the Ministry of Finance, acting as minister and one representative of the state agency for the resolution of banks and insurance of savings deposits, so two different bodies. Of course it can be in certain very small parts and certain overlapping things, but we're really talking about two different elements. As far as this segment is concerned, which you mentioned, I will briefly refer to myself, I have these seconds, next week, and I suppose you heard, among other things, one of the recommendations that came from the fruit community and the association to make it easier for agricultural workers to work seasonally and occasionally in agriculture through tax treatment. We'll talk about it next week, I believe you'll be pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93467	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs Grozdana Peric in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93468	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates and associates. Here is a new law on fiscal responsibility, as the minister said earlier since 2010 when the law was first passed, changes in forms and ways that the commission had done. In order for the last amendments to the Commission itself, i.e. from the Committee to the Commission formed at the level of the Croatian Parliament, where the chairman of the Committee on Finance or President in this case is also the chair of the Committee, and the other members elected on the basis of the proposal of the Committee on Finance, who are otherwise respected members of the academic community, are representatives of the economic and legal colleges of one, the Institute of Public Finance, the Institute of Economic and State Office for Audit, and also representatives of the Croatian National Bank. As it should be pointed out primarily that, in view of the entry into full EU membership and respect for the Council Directive, this commission should have indeed and had to be an independent body that will make certain recommendations which will recognise equally certain possible risks that may occur in a future period or are already at the moment when the budget is being applied, when it is proposed, when it is also being adopted, and the half-year budget report, so it is very important that this commission be truly objective and that it can give its professional recommendations suggestions both the methodology and the ways to solve it. During this period, during these 5 years, the Committee on Finance and Technical Services of the Committee was a huge Suport, meaning support to the Commission itself, and all the presidents who were in that period were maximum in order for the Commission to be more independent and give as high quality reports as possible and we must note that only the Commission is under the rule, ours is generally not public according to that, these are closed sessions and it is always before the adoption of a budget or report, on the benches or on the sides of the Assembly, a position that everyone can then read. So, as the minister noted, it is important that only the commission and that the fiscal rules to be followed are 3 fiscal rules, structural balance rules, a rule of expenditure and a rule of public debt. As you know, in the last precisely these two rules are particularly referring to the 2017 report and here is the first half of 2018, fiscal rules have been met except for this third one, which is a public debt rule which, as an exception, can be used in this way. In fact, the minister himself explained that our level of public debt reduction is actually much greater than how the rules prescribe it. So what is important, the chairman of the commission should be a professional who will be elected by a public competition. His salary will be at the height of the vice president of the DIP. In addition, the Committee on Fiscal Policy will continue to be members, as it has been so far, of the academic community but which will also be elected by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Finance, so it will be representatives of the economic colleges, will be representatives of the Law Faculty, by one representative, the Institute of Public Finance, the Economic Institute, the representative of the State Audit Office and the representative of the CNB. What is foreseen now is that, in fact, for professional and administrative jobs and technical jobs, funds would be provided in the next budget, which means about a million and a half kuna to start with, so as a special head that would be within the Croatian Parliament itself and that would be an independent and independent body. So, the term of office of the chairman of the commission is 5 years, so what is important is that here it will overlap with the mandates of the various compositions of the Parliament, so it starts at half the mandate of this Parliament and will be for the next period when it is another composition, which is also very important for certain independence. Members themselves are also elected for a period of 5 years, but they do not have employee status but they receive only compensation for their work but are still employees of the institutions from which they come. The minister himself said what procedures are if only the commission determines that there are certain anomalies, in which way the commission reacts, to whom it delivers observations and records, which means to the Government, which is obliged to give certain answers and the Ministry of Finance within a certain time. So it shouldn't be a problem, procedurally. I think that this commission that is now moving, which should start working next year, will have a much easier job than it was in some previous period when certain problems and challenges have been before this Assembly, and also the economic crisis and everything else that has resulted in the budget, but we still believe that in this way the independence of the commission must be fully legislatively resolved in a way that it is indeed an independent body that will give quality suggestions, also to recognise certain dangers that occur in the adoption of the budget or in the functioning of the system. I would just like to point out that Article 34, where from that period where I, in the local self-government, established, that is, the mayor of our budget supervision, was then already laid the foundations that actually our budgetary supervision had to be directly accountable to the mayor who, along with the rest, had to give and would continue to declare fiscal responsibility and not only the one at the level of local self-government, but they were, as is also counted in art. 36. means all the heads of the municipal chiefs, the mayors, and then you see here all the bonds or leaders of the budgetary and extra-financial users of the state budget, the companies, the presidents of the company management, and so on, so all legal persons, which is very important that where the state budget and local budgets have ownership or co-ownership, all these heads and presidents of the administration must continue to respect this Act, therefore, to give statements of fiscal responsibility, which is extremely important and thus actually responsible for their work. Here, therefore, the HDZ Club supports this Law and we hope that in the second reading, we will achieve it as soon as possible in order to actually apply it from 1.1.2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93469	Thank you very much. In front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with co-workers from the Ministry of Finance. One technical law that helps colleagues at the Ministry of Finance, let's say it controls some public spending, and I think this is a good law, and that is why I congratulate my fellow Members once again on the quality proposal of the law that has been delivered here before us by parliamentarians. When you see some kind of history, some kind of public finances you see when this law first appears. I mean, at the time of my colleague Shuker, when Croatia was simply hit by a severe economic crisis, recession, and when it wasn't easy to keep not only expenditure but primarily to collect revenue, when all of the countries in Europe were in fact, it happened to them that a major blow to public finances and, in fact, this whole story of public finances of certain fiscal rules was already going on and on, and that's when the first law was actually passed in 2010. With the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, our approach to the so-called a fiscal union has been required by keeping the Stability and Growth Pact, so that already a certain fiscal rule is amended in such a way that the targeted value of the new fiscal rule becomes a medium-term budgetary objective which will be achieved according to the plan of adaptation. So, what the EC is really imposing, does not mean the necessary, fast, certain cuts when certain market shocks occur, but sets a medium-term goal so that within that, meaning this rule that existed in 2014, this new law means we are now fully adapting to the recommendations of the EU Council and fiscal rules are fully in line with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact, and strengthening independence and expanding the competence of the Commission for Fiscal Policy. If our goal is also to enter the European Monetary Union, it means that we also accept the euro as one of the forms of our long-term specific objectives, I think that one of the preconditions is also the adoption of these fiscal rules and I don't think there are any objections in this context and these are government plans, regardless of whether it's left or right, means certain plans and I don't think there are any misunderstandings and certainly on this one legislative part we adapt to this mechanism and we hope that even as soon as 2020, 2021 as one of the conditions we have when they look at you, that you have certain defined and fiscal rules because when we know when certain crises and happen, we know that certain fiscal rules of some countries have even been forced to put into the Constitution. I don't know if it's this one, that some countries even put fiscal rules in the Constitution. Imagine that we had to put a certain fiscal rule in the Constitution, so that we had to vote it, etc. with some 2/3 of the majority, etc. And that's why in the context I think this is good. So, they're strengthened not only by this rule of structural balance, which is different to that balance of deficits that are finally being presented here, this is even more demanding to satisfy this structural balance because when you look at the very definition, you have the definition, that is, the meaning of the concept of structural balance that this is a lack or an excess of the general budget that excludes cyclical economic effects, means one-time and temporary measures that can have an impact on income, i.e. general budget expenditure. So the structural balance is even more rigorous than this balance that's being placed here when we're discussing it here in this high house, so when you look at a certain fiscal rule and setting up a structural balance, I think there's an even more rigorous management measure in this context of public spending. The second rule added as a rule of expenditure is also introduced in terms of sustainable expenditure movement, according to which annual growth, the expenditure of the general budget must not exceed the reference potential growth rate of the gross domestic product established in accordance with legally binding EU acts. I also allow exemptions for certain categories of expenditure, primarily I mean, I don't know if interest here, you can't influence them sometimes, depending on... The market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this is good, and this gives some space to any current and future finance ministers that when economic activities occur in the economy, normally the appetites of all certain ministers grow more than the state can spend. I think this is good, and it also gives the Prime Minister and the finance minister some additional argument because it is not easy on a number of requirements, I say, when it goes well, when the economy is growing 2% to 3% to curb this particular public spending because what history has shown us is that it is precisely excessive growth in certain public expenditures that can happen in the future when certain disturbances in the financial market are later difficult to come out of certain structural deficits. And I think that this is the second rule that is also now being applied here will certainly in the future, i.e. by applying certain these rules of expenditure, provide additional control over expenditure. The third rule of public debt rule relating to public debt is that the share of public debt in GDP must not exceed the relevant value of 60%, if the proportion of public debt exceeds the stated value of the difference between the share of public debt and GDP and the reference value must be reduced according to the dynamics that are in line with legally binding EU acts, what the minister has actually said, certain... and who must be satisfied, who must have their own paths and if we seek to enter the European Monetary Union I think that this rule is certainly a public debt rule has its own weight, especially when I know about the state being accountingly included, i.e. changing towards ESA standards, and there is now a lot of it involved, and when a certain public project is actually analysed, public programs from certain other areas, especially certain infrastructure projects, it is very detailed that all these contracts are read to see the risks of the entrepreneur, how much in the state, so that one day and according to that methodology can be declared to be part of the public debt, so I believe that the rule of public debt, and we know that there are unfortunately in public debt, here today we have spoken and there has always been shipbuilding, when you see that 30 billion of all governments that have actually given up for the maintenance of public shipbuilding, there is 10% of public debt, which means only public debt in the construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then when you take that same health care rescheduled several times, there's probably the same thing as 10 to 15% of the public debt. Then when you see that one part of the pension system is doing and that part of the public debt, then you actually get, when you get this part, when you get how much public debt it is, then you actually see how much it's actually going to be going to be in some difficult economic circumstances, actually how to control it, actually how to get it under control. Because in the end, only he is seen as responsible for public finances, but in fact this whole government should work on it, strive to manage expenditure responsibly. In fact, there has been some concern here whether a new agency is being created, a new commission, a new part of new employment in this work, where this commission, where it will now have an independent man who will now be paid out of the state budget, I must say that when we were a few years ago, it has also been suggested by the European Commission that this person who runs the fiscal policy committee, just to get out of the Ministry of Finance, from the Parliament, to be an independent person, at least in some way, to have his own status when I say in a certain part of how public finances stand, that he has one whole, even to sit outside a certain institution that... I think that's good, look, it's not very easy when you're standing in the Ministry of Finance, so you have to give some opinion to the minister or when I don't know, you're sitting here in the Parliament, it seems like my colleague Grozdan couldn't vote, but they voted the other one, but she had to sign it, then you know when she comes out, then she's standing in the public office, and actually a colleague can't vote at all, and now we're talking like there's some kind of someone who's always looking at you, not even a problem in Croatia, but when someone's looking from outside and the president of a committee says, then some party member, etc. And that's why I think it's a good thing that you're saying here that he can't be a member of the political party and that he may be that he shouldn't even be in what you set the criteria for that person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's good. And in that part certainly commendation. Because it doesn't always matter how we look at ourselves here, but it's important when you're watching those ratings agencies, it's important when they look at you, I don't know how the World Bank comes,... When some of the world's investors come to you, so when they say look at you, I'm still going there to talk to a certain chairman of the fiscal policy committee, and it gets one independence that he's sitting separately, that he still has some opinion, that he can say it independently in that part, and I think in that context that it's a good step and that it's unrelated because it costs it now, I know that today, and I know we were opposed, so why now, because right now the public is reacting it's some kind of new employment, some new kind of personing, etc. I think we need to get away from it here and that in this context it's a lot of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it seems to me that in other countries they are completely out of the public administration system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know they even told us, when we discussed that we should even manage public debt, go to some special agency, that these people can be paid, because they still manage 60% of the public debt. You can't pay these people, they have low incomes, they expect them to save certain billions. Look, these same jobs, when you go to banks, they pay me no 20, 30, 50 thousand kuna, and we can't reward those same people, and they're doing a big job. So I think that in this context it's good and that it needs to remove certain politicization going to a public tender, it's going to be like you said here, that there's only 8 years of work experience in public finances. So you can't just set someone up, I think that this level of profession is also quite rigorous and especially in this part where you are listed, that you can't be a member of a political party, I think it's certainly a certain step, especially because here it consists of these other institutions, to the State Audit Office, because we know that they give opinions unrelated to what party is in power, give positive or... I think in that part of it too is the State Audit Office is becoming more and more an independent body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that this is done by the Economic Institute and we are, in this way, strengthening these institutions, and in this context I will certainly personally support them. I think it's a quality law and that for some future times that are good today, and what they're going to be in a few years, they're going to give a much wider one answer to the public finances management, or they're going to make it easier for the whole administration that manages it. It's a good thing that it started now in those better times, because I say when times are tough and when incomes fall hard, then certain laws are passed, there's a lot more emotions, there's a lot more other factors, I mean now that all of this is stabilised, I think it's a good thing that these laws are being passed now, and I certainly hope that others will support them, because otherwise the SDP Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93471	Thank you, too. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, Mr Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93472	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a new Fiscal Responsibility Act, which should certainly be maintained in future by one fiscal responsibility, transparency, in order to achieve long-term sustainable public finances. It's already in this debate and it's emphasized, they're all here, they said, before me colleagues, so then you wouldn't repeat it in that part, but we actually need to go back to the budget, the budget we're experiencing, actually it can be always developed, always social. I've never heard of a budget, not being developed and not being social. However, when we look at the results of all these budgets from the past, then we find out that they are very little developmental, some have even been harmful, social, less and less, numerous rights are being abolished, so that there are only some beatings left that we listen to each year, and of course the ruling option is always right with its statements, the opposition tries as much as possible to be constructive, in one part become even provocative, when they point to certain items of the budget and which are definitely unnecessary, are exclusively wasteful, are not functional, especially developmental. Then we get to one of the key settings, whether or not to be balanced. If it's balanced, if we have an income side, where the tax press is, on the other hand we have the consumer side, which is angle. employment and projects that don't contribute to economic development or the real needs and then we can just say it's a goal that's fulfilled, we have a balance. But in substance, I would really disagree, if the need for a deficit, that it would trigger positive economic flows, then it would be likely that such a budget proposal would appear here everyone raised their hand to him and said it was really the need we have. It's like this one summary of what we've had over the past three decades. It's enough here for the finance minister, that practically everyone will say, at my place, it wasn't like that, but looking at continuity, definitely, that, it turned out to be a rule. And then of course we have through this bill of law that tries to introduce discipline is always the best thing, I go and discipline myself, so I commend that part, which is the intention, the intensity of the finance ministry and Minister Marić, and then, if I can limit myself and put myself in line, then I can get others in line. The other ministers in the government and through the limits given in defining their budget may be interesting and little content in those restrictions where ministers propose to work on their projects, so it might be more expensive. Definitely, we all agree, without real real GDP growth, we can't expect more consumption, or we'll cause more consumption if it comes back through increased GDP growth rates. However, looking at projections is really a condition that we can expect in the future and slightly less growth rates, as it is in the end the government itself projected and analysts and we find the real causes in this structural difficulties that are very difficult to come by in the order of the Croatian Parliament. We would be happy to deal with reforms that really should have the effect of reforming the health system, pension announcements are being announced, I hope that they will be brave and determined in the future to make significant shifts so that we don't have a trend of leaving our people, people who, for the most part, happen for this reason in an older age who are looking for their happiness in a few years of work, Germany, Ireland or another country to ensure that they have a carefree age, in order to provide them with pensions that can cover their life costs. Here we have recently had discussions and we see through numerous decisions by city or county parliaments, an increase in the prices of homes for elderly and powerless. So the average salary is said no longer to cover those costs. Average pensions, sorry, can't cover those expenses. All, therefore, will look at such a trend to seek an additional source of income that will enable them to lose their family members who may have been indicated that they will take care at their age to ensure sustainable age. It was here and it was noted that it wasn't Europe that opened our eyes. However, we see that in fact a very clear EU policy imposes some rules, and even if these rules are defined by such criteria as the master level of 60%, and we strive to do so. Why didn't we say we don't need Europe to open our eyes, we open our eyes to 50%. Maybe what's easier is when someone else sets you up with rules of conduct, and then you call on someone else, you can criticize his rules, you can avoid when you set your own priorities, then it's very hard to admit your own failure. And that's all I care about if we said okay, we've met the formal requirements of the European Commission, we've adopted, the bill will be passed, probably by the majority that's going to happen here, we've brought down certain EU regulations to the national level. And that's it. However, whenever something needs to be done, we return to something that is socialism. So I'd say that the European Commission began to think socialist when they did, and here's what I heard was that they were their proposals and we were also, let's start a new commission, what they used to be commissions, whenever there was a problem let's make a new commission. Now, this seems to be a new problem, so we're going to have a new commission, a new job as little as possible, maybe irrelevant to all of this with our own expenses, but again, there's a civil servant. But if only we had a clerk who could come here and beat on all of us who are responsible for the end of the budget, that he could honor the minister internally or publicly or other ministers with a derogation that he cares about. Not what is very important in all this, he will, in fact, consider the commission at the head with his president, monitor, assess, give opinions, but he does not have that real role. So we have at the end of the debate on state audit, everything will be determined, give its opinion, give its recommendations. And then when that revision comes one more time in one or more years, they re-establish one of those same offences, they again state in their report, and it walks on the one side of Mark's square, on the other side of Mark's square, but we don't have a body that can really do something about it. I hope here, however, that during these discussions, there will be a model of how to raise the additional powers of this commission if it is already to gain real power to influence the trends that are ultimately prescribed by this bill and which would deviate from it. But let's go back to the role of Parliament. So finally here is the role discussed here in the Committee on Finance and Budget. We will make it clear by this law that the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget is not able to bring this kind of discussion to the board, which has a whole series of fellow MPs and MPs, who have a number of external members who are discussing the subject. They'll simply say, here's the president herself said she should also support the establishment of this commission. So we ourselves are not capable enough to ensure this, so we will vote on another commission. Let's take down a good part of our political responsibility and cement it. I would also turn to a statement here that was, as it were, burning my ears when it was said, the local leaders must be responsible for their work. Okay. Let us place any of us at the head of the least possible municipality in Croatia and ask him how he can lead development policy. We've now had an example of one chief who said the original incomes are at 600, 700, 800 thousand kuna, there's an excessive number of employees, the audit has recognised it, but then I'd say OK, chief, fire all those people, you volunteer, you won't break the limits that are set, but then you'd say, county, state, so take all the things you're putting me down, take over the obligations you impose on me, primarily those reporting obligations, the documentation, when you show up inspectors for the archive then it's clear how many documents you have to produce when someone asks you in general, what's with your archives, lots and too much. And you put such chiefs in a position, that they sign, I guarantee, that they will abide by everything, all those obligations imposed on me by the central state, all those duties that come through a number of laws, all those needs that I have from my inhabitants, and that I tend to satisfy as much as anyone else, if I am the only sinner, throw a stone at me. It will be your statement of every responsibility to the head of local self-government, but who should be thrown away? Those who brought him into this situation, so let's start from this level, state level, to see what we can do, if we're going to do some reforms, which are aimed at increasing control, public spending, fiscal responsibility, then we need to clearly distinguish, which whoever and what time should do, that these obligations are really possible, that whoever puts a statement, a signature on fiscal responsibility, can say with pride, that within what I've been given, I have fulfilled my task. This is how we will open the witch hunt, support all of the local self-government, that there is, however small, we will support that the disappearance of the population does not affect the obligations of any municipality, but we will face a new list of residents and praise the fiscal balance adopted on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance will not help, that these municipalities, at least, with a small population, fulfill all their tasks, which are ultimately given to them as autonomous local self-government. We've decentralized everything but quality finances to them and little by little by little. We bite them through animal asylum, bite them through the obligations of making complex documents, changing spatial plans, making project documentation and just promising them, there will be an open public call, on which you can apply, but be aware, only a certain, smaller number, can make funding or what is even worse, when you report with your projects worth several hundred thousand kunas, someone approves you, 100 thousand kunas, which is the practice of your ministries, then it's like a shower. You would not sign the treaty, nor give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93473	Thank you, too. Sir, it's Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh's turn in front of the GLAS and HSU Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93474	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with his associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike most of my predecessors, I don't mean to sing the appology of this law, because there are a whole series of reasons why it should be fenced from some of the solutions that are proposed here. The directive was adopted in 2011, so 7 years ago, it is in force, and after 7 years, we are convinced that there is an emergency, which is a practical adoption of a new law. It is not exactly in the correlation with common sense, but let's say that everything in Croatia is late, so it is possible that the news came to us seven years after it became current. It is very strange, however, that this issue was not insisted when it was burning up, which is when Croatia went through extremely demanding and would say a painful procedure to monitor the excessive budget deficit. It didn't occur to anyone at the time, let's say people, we have to urgently pass a new law, because the existing does not create enough frameworks for budgetary supervision in terms of respecting fiscal responsibility, so the question is, what is the real point of adopting this law. Our principles are not at all controversial, even more so, 90% of the text of this law is not questionable to us. The establishment of fiscal rules is something that is... Every normal, modern state that cares about its fiscous and cares about public spending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we've had this before, so the paper's been going through a lot, and what's the practice? What is controversial for us is the provisions that change the status, not the role, not the task of the fiscal policy committee, but a little later on. Now I want to say a few sentences about what the current effects of the commission's work are, but if you want the Ministry of Finance as well. Were we not very confident with each adoption of the state budget and then loud in the claims that respect for fiscal principles would rise to the highest possible level and that fiscal responsibilities would not be allowed to be violated. The state audit is regular, each year in the revision of the business of the local and regional self-government unit reports both the Croatian Parliament and the public on the violation of fiscal responsibility, in particular legal obligations which require respect for the quantity when it comes to the cost of payment. Have you ever heard that one unit of local self-government that violated that rule has been punished in some way that would be interesting to the public? Here's the latest state audit report, for example. That one unit of local self-government that 6 hundred people live in seems to me to be 260 and a little more money to pay the employees than the law allows. The state audit findings were from last year. The Ministry of Finance has all the elements of this consumption almost on a daily basis. Did the Ministry of Finance react? Have we heard anything about whether the head of the local self-government unit that's being sanctioned in some way? This is now a drastic example because it's a small community of 600 people, but it's been such cases for as long as you want. Let's say one example from the city where I come from. In 2009, when I stopped being the deputy mayor of Velika Gorica, 92 employees worked in the city administration. With a better, better, more responsible approach to valorizing the work of officials, it could be determined that at least one quarter of them have done nothing, or that, for example, they don't come to work tomorrow so that no one notices they're gone. Today, more than 200 employees work in VG and no new service has been introduced in addition to the services of the office that takes care of the legalisation of illegally built facilities. And they're from the last piece of information I think somewhere on the 15th, and they make their salary by their logic. What happened in one city is that a hundred people have to work more, so 100% more people work to deliver services to citizens, and he hasn't changed his character, his speed, his quality. So far, the commission has been volunteering. The chairman of the commission was the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance and the State Budget. It is now proposed that this body be professionalised and not only in a way that the president is a state official who will have very high incomes, but that all members who, as other volunteers, have the right to compensation at half the salary of a state official. But not only that, but to establish a special service that will accompany the commission, of course within the Croatian Parliament. To this extent, this is a coward's egg that is being planted on the Croatian Parliament because during the night, the Croatian Parliament will receive a new service, new employees, new financial commitments, the promoter predicts that it is a million-and-a-half kuna per year. And the media will, at the moment when we talk about the excessive numbers of people working in the state administration, crucify us with the right because if we accept this proposal, it is the Croatian Parliament that increases public spending, which increases its drive, and ultimately we don't even know how many people work in the Croatian Parliament, how many are on the payroll and how many addresses. When you talk to colleagues in other parliaments and when you tell them that you do not have a parliamentary representative of one person in terms of administrative support, but that administrative support can only be provided through the club's representatives then it is strange for everyone. But when you tell them about the estimated number of people working in the Croatian Parliament, they wonder what these people are doing. A good part of them does a great deal of work, especially those who serve club representatives, for them there is no rest, especially large clubs. And a good part of the work bodies. But in this institution, there's so many people working to make your mind stop. These are the people who negotiate at lunch in whose office will watch the next telenovela, openly and out loud. So is it possible that we couldn't find inside the existing personnel structure of people who could serve the work of the commission? After all, who has he served so far? Why should we now create a new ministry? Why didn't you suggest that this professional service be in the ranks of the Ministry of Finance? Why don't you carry the burden of hiring new people, but you'll transfer it to the Croatian Parliament? And on the other hand, this is all printed up with a story about tax reform expected to answer the question of how to reduce public spending. What we heard yesterday at the government, so the final variant of tax reform is not behind it at all, it doesn't matter how many people work on the state mangers and how many people are employed in state structures, and then it can go with such proposals to go on new employment and new professionalisation and new financial commitments. And everyone who wants to say good, don't just look at income cuts, but look and cut the spending side, what have we done here, how much the state budget has jumped in percentage over the last 10 years, in absolute amounts? In billions. And everyone's talking about decommissioning labour costs, reducing the revenues of the state budget, and that means... And cut the state drive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The set of states is not a good country. People leave because they can't be paid, because they can't be given working conditions worthy or comparable to those that are competitive to us and what the Croatian Employers' Association says no one wants to come to work in Croatia anymore, so there are no more desperate people who are in a worse situation than we are in Croatia. Well, isn't it enough an alarm to get all the smart heads in the government and start reforming the administration, not in a way that only talks about its functions, but also about its functionality, and that also means numbers, and that means efficiency, that means efficiency and ability to produce what is needed as a public service. No, we keep seeing the story of new engagements, new employment, new professionalization. One of the reasons that justice is professionalising this Committee on Fiscal Policy is the alleged establishment of the institution's independence. That's nice to hear. Everything would be fine if we didn't have concrete experience so we didn't know how they went. independent bodies also elected by the Croatian Parliament, to which they also report. Whether it is far past or sufficient to remember only the rights defenders of children who have practically been suspended because the ruling majority can, on the basis of the refusal of the report, deny the trust of an independent institution. The President of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is also a valid example. So-called Independence can be paid by letting it know that it is no longer desirable in that place and that it is free if it is run. So, the story of independence is a great story to hear, but in practice we know very well that the ruling majority can conduct whatever they want when it comes to the independence of these bodies. Therefore, it would not be good for us to deepen and mention and repeat that argument because we know that in practice it seems different. As far as GLAS and HSU are concerned, precisely because this bill is contaminated by additional professionalisation, financial burdens and strengthening public spending, we will oppose the proposal of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93475	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr Branimir Bunjac's turn in front of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93476	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the minister with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, this EU fiscal responsibility law sends us a message that our debts are too high, especially this public debt, and at the same time assumes the role of debt regulators, but according to its rules. In particular, they say public debt can be maxed out. 60% of GDP, if that debt is more than a budget, if that debt is higher, then it must be reduced. In particular Croatian finances, the Croatian government will come under EU supervision. And this first claim of too much debt is absolutely correct, and this second one is defeating because the question is, who in the Republic of Croatia created too much debt and secondly, how is this excessive debt meant to be reduced? Did this excessive debt create opposition, opposition parties? Maybe he's living a wall. Clearly not. Who created it? HDZ with its satellites that we no longer know how many there are, along with the assistance of the SDP and their satellites, which each in their term of office also persistently increased public debt, so that it would reach its record at the time of Minister Zdravko Maric in November 2017 and exceed 300 billion kuna. It is important to say that this is not the total debt, that the debt of the Croatian economy is at least according to what the governor of the CNB presented here, that this debt is about 700 billion kuna, that every Croatian citizen who sits here is obliged, even that baby that is born today, 175 thousand kuna and that debt will not be paid even for the next 100 years. So, if we keep an economic picture like this right now that's a little bit better than 4.5 years ago, and it's better thanks to oil prices, it's better thanks to a favourable economic environment, not to any reforms given by the government, not even 100 years would be enough for us to pay off this debt. So 100 years wouldn't be enough for us to repair the damage that was done in 27 years of an independent Republic. And it's really very bad news and that's what we really need to take as the main message of the text of the law that's before us today. We see that the government is offering no solution. She's just realizing that debt is too high. The government continues to form under the pressure of banks and its minor coalition partners to preserve the 2nd pillar, as much as the 2nd pension column, as much as it says we will increase the allocations for the pillar, we will give another 40 billion for additions of which, although the II pension column created a third of the public debt. So a third of the public debt was created by a pension column, about 100 billion kuna. Normal countries, countries where the state is run by people who have some salt in their head, as they say in a colloquial way, have neither introduced the 2nd pillar nor introduced it. Like Slovenia or the Czech Republic. They wouldn't even hear it. They laughed from the proposal imposed by the World Bank, the former communist countries. The few less wise brought him in, but they quickly realized what kind of fraud he was talking about gave up on him. The only country that still has it, and which insists that the payments continue is Croatia. What will you do, Minister Maric? You will also increase your contribution to II. A post as you increase contributions to health insurance. This is a solution for you and your friends, representatives of large capital in Croatia. With a debt of 7 billion kuna, Minister Maric tells us that we have a surplus in the budget of 1 and a half billion. So if we have a surplus in the budget, why is your government planning a three-year borrowing for 173 billion kuna? What are we talking about? Debts are measured in hundreds of billions of kunas and you're saying we have some sort of alleged profit. You say you fought for lower interest. In 2017, Croatian banks made record earnings on interest. Nowhere in any EU country, the margins of banks are as high as in Croatia. If you want to open a bank, ideally to open a bank is Croatia. It's the best place in Europe. Here you can make practically overnight huge amounts of money. 15 billion kunas took the banks only on interest. And you say Croatia has a more favourable interest. It's simply false, it's throwing dust in the eyes just like you ordered in the media yesterday under your control, and it's said Minister Dalic, the former, and not me, she tells the media what she's going to publish and what not. Read the testimony in front of Uskok, I didn't say. So in the media that are under your control, you sent some stories yesterday as you tax-deliver Croatia, etc. while at the same time you are doing everything to keep these debts higher and to ultimately increase the labour price of the increase, contributions, increased administration, expensive public administration costs and a number of other harmful measures that have been implemented in Croatia for decades. You say Croatia will solve its problems by introducing the euro, it is also one of your government's policies. Please tell me, why does the Czech Republic that has all the conditions to introduce the euro mean it can be introduced tomorrow if it doesn't want to be introduced, why? Tell me how is it possible that this same Czech Republic that does not want to introduce the euro, the former communist country for which Croatia was once the concept of development is more developed today than Spain, Portugal and Slovenia and is located only at the border to become better than Italy? From Italy. If you have twice as much export in the Czech Republic as imports, far lower taxes including VAT than in Croatia, unemployment practically does not exist, wages are more. It is this euro, the currency clause, that was thrown on their knees by the Croatian economy and created only in the last 15 years an external trade deficit of 600 billion kuna. And you still insist on the same policy. Do you know the answer when Governor Vujčić doesn't know why Croatian gold reserves were sold for 300 dollars per ounce and today the same ounce is worth $1300? Why is the only gold owned by the Republic of Croatia rings that people wear on their hands and jewels gold? That's all the questions you don't know how to answer. And just because you don't know how to answer them, it turns out you didn't actually deserve that place as the finance minister you're acting right now, but it doesn't matter to you. You did the same thing in Agrokor. And in Agrokor, you knew that the company was over-indebted to the throat just at the time you were working there but you were still raising credits, talking until the last day, until March 2017 in the media how Agrokor was a successful company, cheating people in the stock exchanges that bought their shares, and then when the ship was normally submerged, you only jumped from one flower to another and tomorrow you'll be on the third. So does a person who knows what's going on and doesn't do anything to change it deserve to run this country's finances and eventually finance itself? Therefore, we can briefly conclude that Croatian debt is therefore too high, this document clearly states, secondly, someone created it, who created it, CNB, HDZ, SDP and its satellites, thirdly, in which way you think you have no idea or you have nothing to do. Your policy, your mouse-step policy, or if you want mouse bites, anyway, a policy where you grow in some kind of promiscuity, a policy in which you save, I don't know, 100, 200 million kunas while the state is in debt billions, etc., at the same time, even as there are external circumstances that the debt is being recovered, to implement structural reforms, to reduce the price of the state, the price of labour, and at the same time help so-called. The real sector, the economy, it all shows that you don't really have any solutions. And what you have now mentioned during your presentation that next week we will discuss, I regrettably must tell you that, after what you published yesterday at the government and what has been a public debate, it is quite clear that there is no reform here either, that it is a simple transfer from hollow to empty and that no benefit from all of this will come from Croatian citizens, but only your society, the society of the narrow elite, the people who have salaries of more than 20,000 kuna, who, of course, have again made sure that they benefit from all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93477	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. First has Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues, I will try to focus my debate on what in principle this law offers us and what we should discuss here, but I would also say something more as a parliamentary representative, I don't think such laws should simply be sent into two readings. These are technical laws, and I think the Rules of Procedure should arrange for this to be done in one reading. But I'm asking you, and I'm asking myself one question after those debates on behalf of the club, do we basically know what the method of budgeting is and who ultimately adopts the budget? He's adopted by this tall home. What are the bodies that report to us how these funds are used? One is the report on the implementation of the state budget submitted to us by the Ministry of Finance, the second is the State Audit report, and the third is a very interesting report on which, apart from my smallness in this House in the past 7.8 years, no one has debated, and this is the committee's report and later the fiscal policy committee. Sincerely speaking at the time of the economic crisis, as well as there in 2012, in 2014, there was no kindness in respect of those who exercised power. But in this speaker, you haven't heard any parliamentary MPs, I say except for my smallness, which called for this report by the Commission on fiscal policy and said wait for a few people, we passed the law here, but the Commission on fiscal policy says there's something wrong with that law. Why am I saying that? So I'm talking for the simple reason that the Government is offering us the legal solution that the European Commission asked for from the previous government in 2013 and then you asked for depoliticalisation, high professionalism of the commission, a professional at the head of the commission, so put it here and put it there. But what I think is the basic issue that this law wants to resolve, which wants to help us, which is the responsibility of those who spend public money and those who have been given public good governance. Because we here when we bring the budget then every budgetary user that this high-level House has approved it has to do with positive legal regulations to spend that money. And it regulates this law, right with statements and all the other things. And if you look at this law, it is up to these statements to sign and have the responsibility of practically leading people of the smallest companies owned and co-owned by local self-government units. And that's what this law offers. My debate will, so I say it goes in another direction. I expect this commission to this high House, because it is said here that once a year it submits a report, in its report a little broaderly elaborates compliance with fiscal rules. Why? We've had some recent problems with the Uljanik shipyard. Whether solving this problem leads to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the resolute minister, then ultimately the finance minister to violate these three fiscal rules that we adopted here. To break the budget we adopted here. Now, do we, because of the day-to-day political situation, whether at a political level, at a country level, act as responsible people to respect the laws we have adopted or subject to daily political needs and ask ministers to do something, and tomorrow we will call them out for it. So that's the key problem and that's something I expected us to discuss today. Because look, it's not a single fiscal rule that expenditures can't grow more than GDP growth, why? If that happens, you're simply spending something you didn't create and there's a deficit rising. But that is why there is then the responsibility of those to whom this House has given that house to say so in the budget you have so much money and you can no longer spend without the Prime Minister granting it to you and proposing to the Croatian Parliament that this amount be increased because the Minister of Finance does not have any power to spend the funds in some resolute ministry. He can form a resolution minister based on this law and old laws and examine what happened. So each budget user is responsible for the use of these funds. And if we read this law in such a way, then tomorrow we will not look at it from that committee if it is like this, like this, but how a quality report that offers us as parliamentary representatives, because with all due respect to all the colleagues, the MPs, many are not so financially verifiable as to be able to read it. If they get such a report and if such a report is discussed on the parent board, then it's a different story. Both the intensity and the first law and the second and this third law go in that direction, and that is why it is necessary to congratulate the Minister that he did this before he comes with a package of laws that regulate the income and expenditure side and the taste of it and the peak of all this will be a proposal of the state budget by including and watching as they respect this government as they respect the financial rules. And the logical thing and it's good that he did it at this point. But do we discuss it that way? No, I don't. And even some colleagues forget that for a time they were in power and that simply because of the situation of the environment, there could be no other situation. Finally, as a colleague of Lalovac, who was a minister at the time, debated in his own way, I was at the time while he was a minister arguing in a similar way, simply some arguments and some facts must be respected. Because you can't escape from the environment in which the state budget is being realized, in which some things happen, you from that environment can't... Some things you can do and change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is whether this commission will be teamed up enough and whether it will be able to control everything that's listed here. That's the basic question for me. It's a basic question. Whether they will be able to control local self-government units because you can see that the State Audit has an audit plan every year doing so many and so many audits. And what I'm saying, Mr. Minister, is that it was also in the first law, it was controversial but it moved away in the second law, which is that unfortunate assessment of the fiscal impact of the Law. Because look, it doesn't really matter if someone proposes some kind of law here and makes a total misjudgement and an assessment of what its fiscal impact will be either on the expenditure or on the revenue side of the budget. Because one big mistake leads to the cost or income side not being realised as the minister predicted and you automatically come into a position to break fiscal rules. And so I say, certain provisions and certain things that we bring here, we simply force those who make the bill stick to those rules. You have seen that you have in the draft law an assessment of the necessary means and in this bill you have that the minister predicted that the application of this law will cost a million and a half kuna in the budget next year. So when we talk about this law, then we just have to look at the story completely. Because if we're not going to look at this whole thing, then we're going to have things happen to us that have happened in times past. This Law was not passed by accident in 2010, the EC did not pass the Directives in 2011 by accident. So remember at the time of the economic crisis that the members, the old EU members who met the Maastrian criteria, which is the height of the deficit, that's the height, the share of public debt in GDP, which is why they entered the Eurozone, went beyond all that to get out of recession and to save themselves. But that's why the EC said OK, you did it then, but you can't do it permanently. Therefore, this Directive was adopted in 2011. And I'm going to finish, and the government in 2013 has had problems with what concept, what composition, and where it's going to be. This commission is extremely important, important to us colleagues and colleagues, when we get a report on the implementation of the state budget here and at the end of the day he, as a state official, will be required to submit the report once a year. Then we can develop all the issues and all the problems that fiscal policy is going in, why expenditures went in such dynamics, why public debt behaves like that. So that's all the questions we can get an answer to. And in order to do that, this law creates a prerequisite for that and let's not say today-to-morrow, is, and sometimes they tell us to start some agencies, so those agencies aren't... It's work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first report this commission brings to this House, we must insist that this report be of such quality. So, I congratulate the ministers on the law and I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93479	Thank you very much. You have four replicas. ... Mr. Bull, I haven't seen you. [[You can't hear it.]] We have six replicas, five replicas. I counted you twice. Six, five replicas. Mr. Maras has the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93480	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, I have listened carefully to how you have essentially collapsed to the fact that the Republic of Croatia is trying to save our shipyards and called for day-to-day political motives and ideas. It's a slightly different approach than anything we've heard in the past few days. So, this now seems to be the HDZ's position if I understand well that the Uljannik shipyard in Pula and on May 3rd in Rijeka ceases to work and does not work because I really don't understand how you can discuss this when you know that from the budget of billions and billions of kuna you spend on some things that are much less important than our shipbuilding, than our industry and our employees. How was it not a problem to raise the defense ministry's budget for over a billion kuna? How is it not a problem to raise and open military stations in practically every other place in the Republic of Croatia? Buy planes? How was that not a problem? ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93481	Mr. Shucker, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93482	It's not correct from a colleague when he doesn't listen to what his colleague says, that's the first thing. You didn't listen at all to what I was saying. I was talking about it, I took an example when I insisted on increasing some expenditure. But of course, according to his own story. However, I remember the story when you were saying that the shipyards were restructured and that Croatian shipyards were saved and the story was over. That's what you were talking about. ... That's what you were talking about. [[You can't hear it.]] You brought the President of the Oil Management Board to the HBOR Supervisory Board to convince them that they needed credit and a number of other things. ... Comrade Maras, I listened politely while you spoke. [[You can't hear it.]] So, me and the government that saved Victor Lenac, who you sent into bankruptcy and this government that saves the Oil and May 3rd that you didn't restructure, you can't say what you lied about doing. And after all,... Yes, yes, you lied about restructuring Croatian shipbuilding... [[You can't hear it.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93483	Mr. Shuker, thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93484	Thank you very much. I think it's everyone. So wait till I start talking. [[/Intruder Radin: What article?]] I can't say the article before I start talking. You want me to... Intruder Radin: You opened your mouth and spoke even though you were not aware that you were speaking./... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[But first you have to say the article, you know it better than I do. So I have to open my mouth to say the article? .../]] 238, I'm aware, but you have to listen. 238, give me back my time, it's over. [[/Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] Thank you very much. [[No, no, I'll give you more. Here you go.]] So in 238 he was injured, a colleague of Shuker, you all heard, insulted me by saying that I lied about restructured shipbuilding what he would like if he already knew that he was saying when, exactly, I said, that people could hear that he was lamely lamentating casually and not telling the truth. And on the other hand, I don't know if you know Mr. Schuker, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has been in power for two years and another half of the year of Oreshkovic's government. So in Croatia, a case happens all the time and then HDZ comes and takes us back 10 years. Here's how it works and it'll obviously work for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93485	Thanks, it's been a while, but I still gave you the time I took from you. Now, wait, wait a minute, now there's Mr. Shucker's breach of the Rules of Procedure and then I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93486	Mr. Chairman, I apologize for the word “I lied, ” perhaps I should have said, perhaps sometimes I should have told the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93487	Here you go, Mr. White.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93488	Thank you very much. Since Mr. Maras hurt Article 238. Rules of Procedure, I don't think what he's saying is right. He should thank Mr. Schucker and the entire HDZ for everything they've done in the last 28 years. HDZ created the state, HDZ created all of you during this short period of power, you did nothing, so I suggest that future members of the opposition lead me, whenever someone from HDZ says something, that we all clap and show that HDZ is basically a party that saved Croatia And the rest of us are all here, by chance. [[We got it, we got it.]] Well, I'm irritated by what Mr. Maras says, constantly attacking HDZ instead of clapping at them all together. [[So don't let me give it to you, don't go on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93489	Time, but time is, you've arranged time all together, you've passed time available and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93490	Thank you very much, but I'm sorry, but my colleague Maras is always annoying me, and he needs to clap the HDZ along with all of us so that I can keep doing what they're doing in Croatia, so I can rob billions, half a billion kuna, and we should clap.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93491	You have a reminder. Excuse me. [[Intruder Beljak: Thank you.]] About this controversy, lying isn't one word to say and Mr. Shucker apologized for it. Recommended that civilization in the future without saying I disagree with you. And that's a civilized way of saying that you don't share an opinion, a lie, that's something and you're not even right, is that, it's much better to say I disagree with you, but it's just my opinion and now we're going to move on with the replicas. Mr. Pernar has a replica now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93492	Dear Representative Shuker, you're one big knower and expert, so here's a chance to ask you a question. Can you explain to me what logic makes the loans that the state has to repay, don't count on budget expenditure? Namely, if you have a company or you are a natural person if you have some kind of credit, if those wars come to your charge, you must include them in your expenses. However, the state budget does not account for billions of loans each year for budget expenditure, but is particularly due to some budget financing account, and is then managed separately. Here I think that by separating or some kind of double accounting, in fact, there is a real gap, or a hole in the government register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93493	Thank you both for the accuracy of time. Here you go, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93494	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, even a company loan is not an expense. The cost is only interest so much, it's been balancedly run differently. The two of us already talked once. The cost of the debt is at the moment when the cost is paid because it is then recorded in the budget. Refinancing of debt is no longer an expense because you pay nothing with it. What you've been in charge of, toasting yourself, you've paid for it, it's costing you, and it's your delusion that funding is not a new cost. You're just returning something you borrowed once to do something. Let's just say that to pay off your pensions, you owe 18 billion kuna a year. Well, you can't say, in that year when it's paid, it's 18 billion kuna minus. In the year that loan is reprogrammed, you're not in charge of that 18 billion, it's the cost, you're just reprogramming that loan that you took like this, and the credit never registers as a expense, interest is the cost. And credit is taken to cover some expense that isn't secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93495	Thank you, time. Mr. Sapina Stipo. Here you go, Grozdan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93496	Here, dear colleague Shuker, you have indeed pointed out everything that is necessary to highlight what is doing and what needs to be done by the Committee on Fiscals and that it is not a question of incompetence now, however, but it is precisely what this law now regulates, and that is that at the head of the commission is a person who is not politically committed, who has competences, who will do so professionally and who will also answer to this very high body to be able to assess how much the situation is in the budget and otherwise the situation assessed by certain risks is properly shown and how much this reflects the budget itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93497	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93498	Yes, my colleague Peric, I have therefore mentioned that when the Law was amended in 2013. Since then, the European Commission has asked the Minister of Finance or the Government to be independent and even wanted to put him in a state audit at one point, which is, I am sorry that Lalovca's colleagues do not have to confirm that. So they just insisted on it. And this is precisely because the Parliament and parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public could get as high-quality a report as possible that no one can dispute that this report is because it is headed by the commission by default by the chairman of the Committee or the chairman of the Committee on Finance. So this is one reason for independence precisely because this report would not be politicised but rather for it to be an actual document that would paint a picture in what direction and what the current state of state of finances is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93499	Thank you very much, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, one by one, the key concept that you mentioned in your debate is anti-cipulation. So you said that this legal proposal, too, here is the Ministry of Finance, was well-announced and that he had now referred it before he also sent a package of tax laws which are also addressed to the Parliament now. I would now put it in context of any other anticipation, which is the importance of fiscal responsibility at the moment where both international conditions and... Still a good one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to take care of what this law proposes now, too, because you do not know what the international situation will be tomorrow as it can be changed, and it is therefore important to have on the fiscal side more stable positions so as not to be so exposed to some changes on the international stage. Here, I think that's how important that word of anticiption is that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93501	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, I've been watching you. Mr. Shucker, I watched you, you didn't raise a stick or a hand. [[Thank you very much.]] No, go ahead. [[How come I didn't raise my hand?]] Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93502	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, you're Shuker, you're former Minister of Finance. When we talk about responsibility, you talk fiscal responsibility about a commission that will increase fiscal responsibility where we will have all relevant data. But we already have a Stability Council that's been able to use Agrokor for 10 billion kunas without cover. You re-elected that governor responsible for this council on the day Croatia-English played. And what responsibility you speak of at the same time as people pick their vineyards, make wine for their own needs and send them 10 thousand kuna tickets if they haven't reported them with inspections. And it is now in Vrgorak region, in all of Dalmatia, all of Croatia. Is this physical responsibility to the people who, who robbed this country and you reward them by appointing and reelection instead of the State's Attorney's office already initiating the procedure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93503	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull, thank you very much. Thank you very much. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, I saw that, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93504	Comrade Bulj, I would very much like to discuss with you what you said that you called in the debate when it was the HanFA's annual report. And then if I'm not mistaken and we can look at the record the only one in this assembly who mentioned those bonds was me. So you had a chance back then, and that's full-fledged, but this is one body that does a completely different job. The Financial Stability Body is something that covers the entire financial sector of the Republic of Croatia. And here we are talking exclusively about the use of public funds and the use of public goods. So these are the facts and I've been talking about it. And yet I'd be very happy to... about what you were talking about, but if anyone was well-intentioned to talk about this matter, he could put a report on the work of HANFA on the agenda and that can be debated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a place where we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93505	Thank you very much. What are you? Nothing, okay. ... And you do, what do you give up on replicas? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Mr. Bull has given up on the replica. ... He had a replica, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now, the individual debate has Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is clear when we talk about this law that a whole series of topics has been opened in a slow manner, even since the time when the unfortunate crisis occurred in 2009 and we were assured by then by ministers and prime ministers that it will only defile us a little. And that's why it's good that there won't be any drama, that it'll be OK and then in 2.3 years we lost 20% of GDP and unfortunately had deficits of 25 billion kuna in 2011. So it is good to have an independent body like this that will regulate certain things that may help the Croatian public to hear it and to have an attitude that does not exactly agree with the ruling majority. Although I must honestly say that I am skeptical of this because if the Croatian Parliament elects the head of the body by majority of votes, we have seen how it works, for example, with Dalia Oreshkovic, who was generally accepted in Croatia as a person doing a good job, two hands were raised by the HDZ to accept her reports and her hat overnight the lady no longer has. Now, you tell me, whether or not the Croatian public will have faith in this majority, that they will place a person, who will do his job in a proper, correct way and who will not, for example, correspond to counterpart Branko Bačić, as president of the HDZ Club of Representatives. I think, and probably a large majority of you, as well as the Croatian public, I think that before he gives his opinion, he will go to an agreement to see what Branko says about fiscal responsibility and whether it moves within the framework of what the ruling majority is responding to. To remove that, here I suggest that the second reading of the law, we come to a solution that 2/3 of the majority in the Croatian Parliament are chosen by that person. Here, gentlemen, you want a consensus? So make such a suggestion, to see if we can really find a person in Croatia that everyone would agree on and that would not match then the ruling majority, Mr. Shuker and Bačić. It's something that would really give that person strength, and it couldn't change in the next four years because it shouldn't be possible to change it without 2/3 of the majority. That's my suggestion, I hope you'll accept it. And in what country, unfortunately, today we live during HDZ, I am telling you an example of a small municipality, which spends 4 times as much of its population on salaries as is legally possible. And no one reacts, the finance ministry doesn't react, the government doesn't react, no one reacts, until now the media, has shown one absurdity, in which the municipality is located, that 500-600th century has employees of 7 or 8 people, and it seems to me that most of the budgets of the budget are spent on the salaries of these employees. And no one's talking about fiscal responsibility here. Reform, municipalities, cities, counties, fiscal, lower costs, united certain functions, etc. That's not what you're talking about. You don't talk about county. Well, it's clear that it's not said, when out of 20 counties, 12 or 13 has HDZ and then the whole sea of officials, roads, this one, it can be employed. That's not what you're talking about, that's not the point. That's okay, but then Mr. Schucker picks up and says, and for shipbuilding, there's no political purpose, we don't need to help. Do not talk about shipbuilding at all, colleagues from the opposition, here, Silvano you from Pula, do not talk about shipbuilding, because you will immediately call the ruling majority, that it is about day-to-day political moments and something that is incorrect. And I say exactly the opposite, Croatia should fight for its shipbuilding. How does Germany find ways to provide guarantees? How does Germany find ways to promote innovation in shipbuilding and certain things that can be encouraged? But, Croatia does not, in cooperation with the shipyard, send to Brussels a restructuring plan, which comes back to us and where people make fun of us, is that normal? Well, Di is Minister Horvat, as he can be more of a minister today, after they made fun of us in Brussels and said, so what are you talking about, what kind of ships you're going to build, what ships you haven't made since 2010 or 2012, how you're going to do it now? That's what this is about, and of course the state is also the owner of the shipyard. What I'm saying is, I support bringing an independent body, supporting it with 2/3, and then the entire Croatian public will believe you that it's really independent, not that you want to put one of your own. I also support the reduction of the share of public debt in GDP and faster than it should be, but I also support that Croatia protects its interest through jobs, industry and everything that is related to shipbuilding, not buying, and we have seen, unfortunately, in Zagreb, where politics is being led give you 100 kn, give me a vote, how money is being ruined in the end, and how intransparently in me and illogically spent taxpayers' money. This is unfortunately done at the state level, because priorities are not at all the ones that should be. And then when you have money, when you're planning something good, irresponsibility dominates, here, for example, I said yesterday, HNS who's interested in our children, the future and the curriculative reform, have forgotten 8,000 families, where is that responsibility? It's a fiscal responsibility not to spend the money that needs to be given to those who need it most. Of course, you have to do the purchase of pills, computers, through some public procurement of 100 million kunas, and that wouldn't be forgotten, it's an interest to spend. It's basically, in my deep opinion and this whole information story, behind it was a huge business, trust me, a huge business that's trying to get into our schools, through our schools, it's gonna be better to push in certain interests that are about to be discussed. Well, it's amazing that exactly Minister Divjak comes from the University of Information, Ministry partners, etc. Try to listen a little bit to what people say, how schools are equipped, how illogical it is, that classes break down, the first one has, the third one has, the fifth one has, the second and the fourth one doesn't, all of it seems to me through one light PR story is a big interest and business is spinning behind it. But then forget about Mrs. HNS, forget about the 8 thousand families most needed, and here you can see how responsible you are and how important it is whether someone and our children are going to get help and whether something is going to be done or not. Wave, wave and laugh, Mrs. HNS, but people see and are aware of what this is all about, that this is not about any good for our people and for our children but rather about the opposite. So in the end, I support what the minister is doing, I appeal to him once again to think about whether this kind of tighting policy is productive, I said, you buy a flower for 10 kuna, shut down your customs for two weeks at a store. A flower for 10 kuna. If there's a policy where you're gonna punish someone, here I was in one store yesterday, buying ice cream and telling me a woman so give me something, don't let us be punished with 300,000 kuna if we have a kuna, two less in the register. I said, "Here comes the minister tomorrow, I'll give him that message." Don't do that. 300 grand is the maximum penalty for the lack in the cash register. That's brutal. What kind of message is being sent here? Because we weren't doing perhaps quality work during the World Cup, because it was probably the customs officers watching the games, so there was a little less printing. Can't all those who make their tiny little turns now Let me just finish the sentence. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Tiny little twists and make something that makes sense. [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, you should have finished it in time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93507	Please. And I'm asking you not to violate the conscious time you've been assigned. There will be opportunities now in reply for replicas. We've got more replicas. The first replica is the respected representative of Kresha Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93508	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Maras, and I'm glad you warned him. Me too, because I really have to criticize him again. When he talks about the political corruption of HDZ, he is well-founded by HDZ people. When he talks about the arrest of thousands of people in the county, in the state administration, his HDZ colleagues are very nice again with a smile on their faces. When they talk about the destruction of shipbuilding, about stealing in Agrokor, and he keeps talking about it, his HDZ colleagues have a nice face with a smile on their faces. Well, colleague Maras, it's time to stop believing your eyes and finally believing HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93509	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93510	Thank you very much, Mr. Whitey. ... Well, we've seen a lot of things. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I believed when Mr. Schucker said that the crisis wouldn't break us, I really believed it, and I hoped it wouldn't happen. And I said, look, I guess people do. They have this responsibility, the people chose them, they got the mandate and they have the data. And they say there will be no crisis in Croatia. And I say, come on, I believe. But what happens 20 percent, we lose in two years' deficit... 25 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They come next. He says not these commercials around the tunnel, opening up around the highway, so that's how it works, that's the PR, that's the profession, marketing FIMI-MEDIA. I say, look really possible. I haven't been around that much, maybe you really need to advertise and open up such expensive highways, maybe there's no money leaking in there. When you see what happens. Well, I can't take it anymore, Cresso, I trusted them, but I can't, here's what I mean. I'd love to believe it, but I can't, after 10 times you screw me up, it goes on me, but another time more brother, so that's impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93511	Comrade Maras, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93512	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93513	Thank you. Honorable representative Beljak has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93514	Dear Vice President, colleague Maras has injured Article 238, Article 238. Rules of Procedure. He's talking about a crisis. I believed Mr. Shucker in 2009 and Mr. Sanader who was his boss that there was no crisis. I don't remember the crisis. The tunnels were painted not two but four times. A building was sold in the Mountains, and I think a colleague hurt her. No, but Mr. Maras is talking about a crisis, Croatia has never been in a crisis. [[Invader Reiner: Dear Representative Beljak, you abuse the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] After all, voters have said their and re-elected HDZ which is the best proof that the crisis in Croatia has never been.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93515	Insinuate the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93516	Because I'm defending HDZ again. Well, you should commend me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93517	You have a second warning. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I have already said this morning that this is a great proposal from the Ministry of Finance or the Government that the Committee on Fiscal Policy is made up of people who come from independent state institutions. And I support your position as well. So you're going one step further. You're saying it would be a good idea to call that body a two-thirds majority. But you know that appointing anyone in this House requires a two-thirds majority a single position of the SDP. And you know it's utopia today. You can't even agree on the president of your club, you can imagine that you would agree on a president or a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Therefore, from such a noble idea, we would eventually need one 2, 3 years to get SDP to agree on who would be a member of this committee, and in this way we would practically say good ideas so that it would never be an independent body. So let's stay ahead of this solution, that's good for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93519	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93520	Oh, no, no, you're reading things wrong. You've read in one part of something but when it comes to a good thing there's a SDP very unique unlike you don't even need a club to agree, I'm sure everyone in the SDP will back me up, we don't need a club for it. You have a different situation, and you need a club because one of them plays Culey, another Stier, third Shuker, and then they all have to come to Bačić to make a deal. Because if there wasn't a club, how would it vote? So who'd raise that for the Istanbul Convention if there wasn't a club? So remember a little bit what's going on. Well, what you're saying is Croatian cancer. It makes people feel free to look like Stier you've put in the club's shackles. A man can't anymore, he can't even vote for some things he might want to. Not even to vote man. He didn't think he'd have to vote for some things sometime. So don't do what's good... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93521	Comrade Maras, please. You're constantly out of time, and you're still talking out of the question. Please stick to the time. Every time you've spoken, you've exceeded your time and it's significant, come on. You've been here long enough. It's not 2-3 seconds, not two or three seconds away, because I don't react at all when people are two or three seconds away, but when they're 20 or 30 seconds out. [[Intruder Maras: Significant of 2-3 seconds.]] But we're going to the next line. Honorable representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93522	Comrade Maras, you have witnessed responsibility. There is neither fiscal responsibility nor political responsibility in the Republic of Croatia. You cited the case of a colleague from the HNS, or Minister Divjak, and her responsibility that 8,000 children and family did not receive the textbooks in time. Will anyone answer for that? He won't. And they're gonna sell us child care. HDZ always sells us some kind of story about protecting national interests, about caring for the common good. No one will answer. And colleagues from the HNS, well of the five people from their club, or of the five people from their club, one, we know who, was supposed to be confirmed yesterday, was not confirmed. We know who the president of HNS is, Ivan Vrdoljak. One commentator read the column himself this morning, paraphrased Archimedes' law. He says, as the political body that supports the prey's majority is more immersed in problems with the judiciary, it pushes out more love for the prey's majority, which makes it easier for him to have these judicial problems. And so survives this ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93523	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93524	Thank you very much. If she had any morals and genuine child care, the minister would resign. Here, I'm asking Minister Divjak to resign because she caused the trauma and made it harder for me to learn 8190, which is the worst, most needy children whose parents have no income, who live on welfare. She's responsible for it and if she did, she'd have to resign a little while, and she wasn't messing around today, I see, in the papers and some other stuff. He says maybe the typhoon is to blame for not being equipped with schools. So on the other hand, I ask you to pass it on to the minister, if she did, and she had to resign a little while, because I think it would show that she really cares about the kids, not that she's going to spin some of her own story that we're just about to find out who she is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93525	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93526	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I don't understand why you like to twist what your colleagues say so much. And so, I'm not going to talk about it at all, I'm going to talk about something else. So, you, the government where you sat two days before you joined the EU, made a decision to merge 3 May and the Uljanik as a restructuring measure. Now your colleagues in Rijeka are telling a completely different story. Your colleagues from your client. You are, you know very well what it means to bring people to influence some sort of body. You know it very well, and that's why you're saying it from experience. However, I, from college, am not going to talk about some things out of respect for this. But if you keep this up, I'd be happy to document them. Therefore, fellow Maras, you are well aware that you are in the adoption of the 2012/2013 budget. At that time, the president of your government, Mr Milanovic, said the SDP government had completed a restructuring programme for Croatian shipbuilding. The result of that restructuring is you see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93527	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93528	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, your threats won't scare me. Feel free to say whatever you know, whatever you want. That's what I do. So you'll never hear from me, watch your fellow Shucker for what you're saying because you might start talking. So try to protect yourself and your dignity a little bit. So don't put yourself in an awkward position. Be free, talk about everything that bothers you, what you know, what you think is wrong. That's what I do all the time, that's what I do all the time and I won't stop. So in the beginning, I'm telling you, make it easy on yourself, tell everything you think we should talk about. Sing. Maybe it would be, so sing Mr. Shucker. Perhaps some things that the Croatian public would be interested in during Sanader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93529	Thank you. ... Come on, let's not go to the club, please. [[You can't hear it.]] Let's move on. The individual next debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic, but he does not have the right to speak, so the next individual debate will be discussed by the respected representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93530	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the Croatian budget has a large hole, figuratively speaking. I mean, there's a lot more expenditure than there is revenue. The reason he's got bigger... Now, I would only ask Mr. Zekanovic, I have nothing against you, just put your headphones on and listen to what you're interested in, thank you. [[You can't hear it.]] So the problem is that the loans came in, I've already explained that doesn't count the expenses. That's part of the problem. You're explaining, Mr. Shucker, that it's no problem with that, that it's such a respected practice that companies don't even run the credits between expenditures, etc. However, the fact is that when a loan comes to you for payment, it is not income. You don't have the money coming to you, you have to create the money you're going to have to pay for that loan. The state also knowingly and deliberately recorded certain types of expenditure not as budgetary expenditure, but as expenditure of shipyards, railways, highways, etc. Let me give you an example. The state recently took 10 billion kuna loans to refinance debts in highways, you see, the state took the loan 10 billion, the state will repay those 10 billion, however, it says in that budget plan largely does not run as state debts. How? How about if the state takes out a loan and repays the loan? But the state doesn't run it, I say again, under my command. I'd understand, say the state said, we're going to raise that loan instead of the highway because, let's say, we're more comfortable with interest, and the highways are going to repay that loan, so we're not going to book it as a budget expenditure on long routes, or as a government debt. However, when the state takes and repays the loan, I see no reason why it would not be held as a government debt. I'm going to give you another example, here, you know that billions of loans are issued to shipyards that guarantee the state, you know that, I know that. What you and I both know is that shipyards can't get it back. Who's gonna pay those loans back? You will tell the shipyards, or pretend that the shipyards will return, but it is clear to you and to me that the state will return for them because they are not capable of it. They are neither able to operate at present nor with zero, let alone with a plus that would allow the return of the credits they have received, but the state or those loans guaranteed by shipyards also does not lead as a government's task, but rather as a shipbuilding task, although I repeat, it is the state that will eventually repay them. The same opus modernis is also found in the case of railways. Railways are raising loans, the state is returning them, but the state is not leading them under the responsibility of the state, but, as I explained, the task of some other entities. Taking into account the fact that all these loans that I have now cited, the highways, railways and shipyards do not lead under the responsibility of the state, although the state is returning them, and that on the other hand the principal credits granted to the country itself are also not accounted for in budgetary, or state expenditure, then we come up with an illusory picture in the budget, here's another banal example. Income interest is calculated as budget expenditure, but you have one thesis called the primary surplus, probably most citizens wonder what the primary surplus is? Well, the primary surplus is when you have budget revenues and budget expenditures, but in these budget expenditures you don't count on nor the principal loans reached, nor the interest on loans, nor the loans for all state-owned companies that can't repay them, which the state will repay, etc. And then you go to the media and you tell me we have a budget surplus. So what surplus of budget when it's clear that the state has to be in charge of 40 billion kuna this year alone? How? Why, if we have a surplus in the budget why does 40 billion kunas of the state have to take new loans? It doesn't make sense. Of course, logic is only there when you understand the way the budget itself actually agrees and how you're basically hiding the real state. Because if there really was a budget surplus, as the government can often speak, then it wouldn't be a problem to finance budget expenditures. There would be no talking then and no money for sick children, no money for these emergency aids in Zaprašić, no money for salaries for oil workers etc. Why do you say that if there's money? And when all of this is considered, it's clear that this fiscal liability law is not going to solve anything, why? Because it allows for the continuation of these accounting games, the continuation of actually lurking, the continuation of the concealment of the real state. And you're going to say, I don't know, you're in charge at the annual level of 40 billion kuna to cover all government expenditures, and then you say we have the primary surplus budget or you throw the second set, and that's like the deficit is 2%. Then why the government's debt this year for 40 billion kuna if the deficit is only 2%. Because the budget deficit, I explained, does not include all government expenditure. You have a mass of state expenditure that doesn't lead to budget expenditure. But as Mr. Shucker explained to me, he said in a rather picturesque way, he explained in fact that when you take out a loan so that credit comes to you on payment, it's not an expense, but when you repay that loan by taking the new loan you actually refinance the old loan, you don't have as a new debt. In fact, it's about living in a debt system where money is debt and it accounts for cumulative interest on interest, and that complex insertion actually makes the total government debt grow. That's the key thing, they say, let's say we cut the government debt, no matter how much you cut it? You've just made some kind of redistribution in accounting, and suddenly you see it says, we have a billion kunas of small government debt, and the debt has never been higher. Well, that's how anyone could. It's like having a man who's got, say, reaching out to him every month for 5,000 kuna credits, paying him 6 grand, costing him the lives of 2,000 kunas, and then he says I'm in a deficit of only 1000 kunas, because that's why I'm missing only 1000 kn, because those loans that come at me are 5000 kn on the charge, which I don't really count as expenditure or I don't know how. Ugl. This model of you sticking your head in the sand will get to your head, it's already breaking into your pension funds that are actually asking the state to hand over state property to them, in the name of government debt, because pension funds are aware that the state can only maintain the budget by infinite borrowing, or, that it's not able to repay its loans, but only taking on new, bigger and bigger and thus, the debt of the state is getting bigger and bigger. And as the debt of the state grows, as more and more billions go to foreign lenders, the press is increasing over the rest of the population, which has not already escaped from Croatia. This means that in 10 kn, 15 kn, 25 kn, companies are closed, i.e. bakery, pastry shop, hairdressing salon, and it assures us that these measures will also save the state budget. Mr. Maric, perhaps you can convince someone, as Linic has always assured these people, but those who are looking at the width, who are thinking a little more abstractly than you and your associates, I don't think you can convince them, you have failed to convince me, and I am waiting for the day, when finally this policy will be essentially defeated in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93531	Thank you we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93532	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, we're talking about the fiscal responsibility law, but the fact is that this paper is well written, we have a commission, it looks nice, it's June, it's been the presentation of this law by the minister. But the fact is that Croatia does not have a gram of gold because of its irresponsibility, 15 tonnes have sold gold. The Croatian National Bank, we have a governor, who is responsible for instability, which took place in the case of Agrokora where, finds a system of bonds without cover that Agrokor uses, 10 billion kn. At the same time, they send in inspections to Vrgorac vineyards, what they harvested their grapes and what they do with wine, because they did not report 10 thousand kn, they have to pay the fine. And that wine and grapes isn't worth £5,000. So that's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93533	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93534	Mr. Bulj, do you know that from our entry into the EU, we have come to the fact that the production of wine has literally been halved. However, you've actually said this perfectly well, for the miserable surpluses in the cash registers are being issued... Penalties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, you've got someone to say no to getting caught in the city of Đakov, who gets an e-mail that says pay Jones Smith 50,000 euros in the Cayman Islands, he pays Jones Smith 50,000 euros, and nobody gets eaten by a donkey wolf. So what am I, I got an e-mail, an e-mail saying I don't know, someone's name to pay for it. And then what happens? I would understand that the system is dragonish so let them punish and then give these for 10 kn extra, so give those who create 50,000 euros missing, they are also punished, but of course, they will not be punished, they will be fined only this one, a small keg or a small fish, as they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93535	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93536	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. So we live in a system, if I understand correctly, in which state is allowed, that it is infinitely in debt to banks and that loans are refinanced by loans. What's paradoxical in this whole case is that citizens are not allowed the same way in which they pay off their debts. So a citizen when he can't pay off a loan, he just takes away everything he owns. So it is not possible to come to a Croatian bank or any other bank and tell me a loan to pay off that old loan. No, he's taking the house, taking all his assets, the craftsmanship, and it's actually showing that the banks, some mother and another stepmom are actually asking their citizens to meet the conditions that they're not actually able to make themselves either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93537	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93538	You pointed out a colleague of Bunjac on a farce called debt, interest on interest, infinite borrowing, a model that is essentially not sustainable, and everyone knows that. But here we are convinced of the heads sitting here, most of them, that this model is sustainable, that it works, not only works, it will work in the future, and that with that kind of model in the long run we will succeed and what else. However, from all the results of this policy, we can come to the conclusion that we will not, that the tax press will be growing stronger, that smaller and smaller entities will be trampled, that a tax on real estate will be introduced, that there will simply be a terror of minorities over most, and that minorities managed by outside, minorities who do not respect the will of the people, minorities who serve those they did not choose, who serve Brussels and Washington and not Croatian voters, or the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93539	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the Mosta Club, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93540	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers with their assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The fiscal responsibility law provides for one body, i.e. the chair of the commission and the body to control fiscal responsibility. The fact is, we have a number of bodies that control and stability of finance and fiscal responsibility. Unfortunately, Croatia does not have that. We have excellent, on the paper of the Minister written laws. But the Constitution is constantly being violated. We can start from the beginning. A colleague here earlier said as far as HANFA was concerned, there was no report. No, I filed a criminal complaint against the Stability Council a year and a half ago and knew Agrokor was using 10 billion kunas without cover. That's what the CNB knew, it knew the Ministry of Finance, it knew HANFA who were also members of that stability council body. No one's doing anything. But you're not all experts here. I'm usually a high school man and I like to press charges against this unprecedented robbery. When we talk about shipbuilding, every year a state audit in its reports tells us here that billions of kunas are spent in non-transparent means that must be spent on purpose. And she delivers it to all the institutions. You ministers can confirm whether it's true or incorrect. Example, Split Shipyard. Don't waste on the shipbuilding. We also destroy financial stability and lose jobs and education structures that study shipbuilding, engineering, we train them without being able to work here but will have to go to third countries. Which is why shipbuilding if the state's money gives for the ship's construction of Brodosplit, and Brodosplit doesn't invest in shipbuilding. And that audit gives us every year in its report. So that's one plus one. That's absolute irresponsibleness. While at the same time when workers seek their rights in bankruptcy proceedings, they cannot achieve them. For example, the Dalmatinian workers. That's what the bankruptcy law says. They are in the front row religiously, but they can't be charged. I don't see why these people wouldn't let their claims in a bankruptcy procedure as a believer forgive them. Not to the workers of the Dalmatian, not to the constructor, not to Dalmatia, not to many other companies of Kaštelan... At the time when the cash registers are controlled, i.e. fiscal cash registers, and then for five kunas like we said, big dragon sentences go to people who have little twists or something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we have to the farmers in this case, here are the people who are now picking their vineyards, now it's harvesting. And they'll make some wine if they don't report that they've been harvesting, but they've got 10,000 kuna solutions coming in that they have to pay the fine. So the system is upside down. We're out of control. According to a small man, according to the one who has to live in the rural area, he has the support of these inspections and financial services from other inspections, which should give counseling duties, advice, and not punishment. And a lot of those twists, the O.P.G.s are closing down and people are going to build, they're going to work where? They're going to Ireland. It is our fundamental right to speak to parliament about this if the state as a system is financially treated irresponsiblely, endangers the stability of the Republic of Croatia from the CNB, the Ministry of Finance and the HANFA. This is clearly visible in the case of Agrokora, and you Minister Marić knew all about it, you didn't speak publicly, you didn't meet us as parliamentary representatives, you know it today and don't run the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93541	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the final word will be respected by Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93542	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is a well-known evangelical principle that such a court as we judge and we will be judged ourselves. I mean, let's not be hypocrites. The Gospel invites us to apply the same rules that apply to ourselves, to apply to others. However, we in the Republic of Croatia today have a situation where fiscal responsibility is taught us by Mr. Zdravko Maric who worked in Agrokor, who knew or had to know what was going on in Agrokor or if he didn't know he was actually back in the gap that he didn't know, or that in that case he didn't simply have the intellectual capacity to understand what was happening. I remember when they said, I think in the paper it said there was no surveillance inspection in Agrocora for 10 years. That now that they're in, they're all in wonder. They say wonders, they don't understand when he says he spoke at his own time, nor do I understand, that Raos writer. And now they're, you know, snooping in there, investigating. However, unlike Agrokor, which has been bypassed by inspections at a wide port, today the state is sending inspections to small businesses. In a fish shop, in a bakery, in a hair salon, etc. And the state assures the public that the tax press on the smallest economic operators with the lowest income, by taking on small bills, will be able to reverse macroeconomic trends, what I remember from a minus to a plus was one program. So maybe the state thinks the budget holes will cover this massive tax repression. Of course, we know it won't happen, and I'll warn you of one problem. You know yourself, Mr. Maric, that if you buy one product for 10 kuna, sell it for 20 kuna, you will have to, or some goods, you will have to pay VAT in contrast to the price. That's the nature of things. If your entry fee for a service was 20 kuna, you could end up selling that service for 40, you'd pay the OPDV on those 20 kunas, it's called added value. However, when a bank, a foreign bank in Croatia issue a loan of, say, one million kuna and you return 2 million kuna through interest, the bank does not have to pay VAT on millions of kuna earned. Why doesn't the bank have to? Can you explain why foreign banks in Croatia don't have to pay VAT on the profits they make? That's what I don't get, Mr. Maric. How is that possible? And of course, people are wondering, these little ones, so why are they squeamishing me for 10 kunas? Well, you're being drained, amigo, because I can't do these big ones. They can't go to Zagreb Bank and say you, I don't know, gave the state 100 million credits, the state paid you back 200, pay you VAT what you earned. The states can't say that, why, because the hand that gives always above the one that receives, because real power and power in Croatia has foreign banks, or lenders, and not people. And the Living Wall is unfortunately the only party in this House that speaks of this deficit of democracy, that the meetings of the government are a puppet show, that the prime minister and ministers actually decide nothing, that all decisions are made beyond the borders of our country, and that we are the only party that says that money as a debt or system of this endless borrowing will ultimately lead to ruin, that it is not sustainable. For this reason we vote and we will vote against every budget and against every funding plan that is set up in these settings that you are giving us today and therefore against this fiscal liability law because it is not concerned with the central issue and the central question is who is creating the money or why the state cannot create it, why can it only enter the scope through the credit of private banks, why is it not the state that creates it and the private banks then distribute it? These are difficult questions, serious questions you unfortunately don't have answers to, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93543	That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93544	Proposal for a Law on Fiscal Responsibility, first reading, P.Z. No. 403. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Fiscal Responsibility and 1 August is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 95 for, 21 abstentions and 3 votes against the delivered conclusion as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93545	Now, I'd like to give you a few notices, so we'll discuss the next item by one o'clock, and we'll have a free speech in one hour. On Wednesday, we will continue to work, on Wednesday at 9:30, and we will continue to supplement the agenda, and those points that will be completed on Wednesday at 9:30, will be discussed Thursday during the day. It's tax law, a set of tax laws, so here, we know a little bit in advance what our work plan is. So we'll discuss this point and we'll discuss it to one point and then it'll be free speech. The following point is of course: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013. 2017/1131 on cash funds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 404 The proposal is made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Honorable Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This law provides for assumptions for the implementation of the Monetary Fund Regulation directly in all EU Member States, provisions are required to apply all monetary funds. The Monetary Funds Regulation entered into force on 20 July 2017, with effect from 21 July 2018, introduces significant changes in the way money funds are working and operating in order to ensure a higher level of protection for investors and to level the conditions of business and investor protection in all EU Member States and to reduce the impact of market shocks on money funds. The Regulation prescribes additional stricter requirements for monetary funds primarily in relation to investment policy and evaluation... liquidity, diversification of investments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the law itself, it will enable the implementation of the Monetary Funds Regulation in such a way that the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency is designated as the supervisory authority for the implementation of the Regulation and the law, the authorisation procedure for the establishment and planning of money funds, the money funds are entered in the Register of Monetary Funds, the exemptions from the cap on investment of the prescribed fund regulation, the supervisory measures are prescribed and the burdens and easier violations for the management company and the level of fines for certain infringements are prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93547	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Anton Kleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93548	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker. Here again we have one law in the EU's series of regulations that we must adopt, so we need to install the regulation into our legislation on finance. In principle, investment funds must be reregistered in such a way as to deal with monetary affairs in monetary funds. In short, the regulation applies strict EU rules that these funds must operate on markets in order to meet the requirements for the payment of investors, especially during market stress. The single rules for the portfolio of the cash fund are also necessary to ensure that money funds can be handled with substantial and sudden requirements for the payment of a large number of investors. The single rules for monetary funds are further needed to ensure the smooth functioning of the short-term financing market for financial institutions, corporate issuers of short-term debt instruments and government. In addition, they are necessary to ensure equal treatment of investors in a cash fund and avoid later payment recipients being in an unfavourable position as payments are suspended temporarily or if the cash fund is liquidated. As far as this law itself is concerned, it will enable the implementation of the Monetary Funds Regulation in such a way as to designate the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency HANFA as the authority responsible for the exercise of supervision. The authorisation procedures for the establishment of money fund management shall be laid down, the register of cash funds managed by HANFA, the exemptions from the investment restrictions prescribed by the monetary fund regulation, etc., etc. So, one law that needs to be applied, so this is Regulation No. 2017/1131 on monetary funds, and it just seems to me that we're a little bit complicated with these laws, and I think that this should be done in one reading and solved, and, as for this previous fiscal responsibility law, a colleague named Schuker mentioned. For this one thought, I will also support that according to this form, what we have received on the report on the consultation with the interested public has not been any comments received, so here and for this purpose, and in this way I would like to support that some of my comments and I think that these laws should really be applied in one reading. Of course, HDZ will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93549	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also immediately agree with my colleague, Kleman, that these laws here from the opposition would certainly be supported to be adopted by an emergency procedure, especially since it is a regulation where we know that we have some kind of change within this regulation very limited, because it must be applied in all Member States because of the single financial market and in this way for those who, later on, have to, to which this regulation refers, that, certainly as soon as possible, it has already been said here exclusively to monetary funds, knowing the current financial market, such financial funds were not currently regulated in the Republic of Croatia as one specific type of investment funds, but all these funds, monetary funds, shares, liabilities, mixed funds, etc. they were defined by the law on open-end investment funds with a public offering where they actually invest citizens in such forms, their money in such forms that tomorrow will bring them slightly higher yields than that deposit itself, although it is a characteristic of these funds themselves that they make something lower than they make in the portfolio, i.e. they make the most of the contributions they make to them, but they are in fact the most risky funds, and the money funds are at least risky because according to the portfolio, the structure of their investment is the largest part of their investment invested in deposits, i.e. holding money mainly in accounts and holding certain securities, I mean short-term securities from the finance ministry, deposits, so that the structure of their investments is defined. This will further strengthen this work so that, when some of the stress on the financial markets occurs, people are actually pulling their money out of the money funds when a certain financial crisis occurs and it is precisely that they might react and that not really these money funds, to say the drying up, is the worst thing when you go to get your share of the money fund you can't withdraw, in this way you're actually putting on some stricter rules for managing the money funds and those who won't reregister to say so on the financial market, you're going to have to run those funds in some other forms and have some other investment strategy. When you look at money funds in the Republic of Croatia, not funds cash, but total investment funds with a public offering, they run you somewhere with... Around 19 billion kunas, about 8, 8 and a half billion kunas manage you with a stock, with a binding one, so they mostly invest in bonds of the Republic of Croatia or some other bonds of some other countries, and behind them are actually cash funds that have some kind of activity of about 7,1, 7.2 billion kuna. So, in fact, this law refers to these 20-million-dollar funds managed by an asset of 7.1. billion kuna, and over 5 and a half billion kunas have invested certain securities, so that all those citizens who have invested certain funds in these funds will have to look at their own money very soon after the application of this law, so that if they have invested money in cash funds, they will definitely be informed whether they will actually be reregistered or have some other investment strategy so that certainly for those citizens who invest in money funds, they will be given a change in the money market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We say, however, that this is an EU office, and as they establish these rules that need to be unique to the European market, for a financial market where, with this way and the Croatian financial market, it becomes part of the integrated European financial market, we believe that I say that in future, we can also adopt such laws by emergency procedure and the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93551	Thank you very much. Now we're going to an individual debate. She was approached by a respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And then we would conclude the debate on this point and we would vote on it when the conditions are met. Since I announced that we would continue free speech at 1:00, then I have to give a half-hour break now to 1:00, I'd like to proceed normally and finish sooner but the colleagues who made the call aren't here, it would be incorrect to proceed immediately. So we'll wait until 1:00. Thank you very much. MEETING IN 12,31 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-21-0.u93552	Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No. 2017/1131 on cash funds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. The 404th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No. 2017/1131 on monetary funds and 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 101 for, 14 abstentions and 3 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Now we're moving on to a statement by the clubs of representatives of the so-called. Free speech with just one more piece of information, at the end of today's day if we arrived, we would also discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission because we have some demands that we have received in the meantime. So now we're going to the club debate, the first word for word came out on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, here you go.
