ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101577	Honorable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. Good morning, I am opening the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic and the members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Madam and gentlemen of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament you received by electronic means, any comments on the minutes. Since there are no objections I find that we adopted the minutes of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With a call for a session, you've also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, there is no point 56 of the draft agenda, which has been withdrawn from the procedure currently since 7 November 2018, a point of the annual report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2017 submitted by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment. In the final draft agenda, I have placed 70 new points, if you agree, I would not read them now, but I stress that the new points are proposed in the final draft agenda printed in bolder letters. These are points under regular numbers 1 of 3-11 then 17 and 18 and 28-85. As the procedure sends out a proposal for candidates to select the Commissioners for Information sent by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, I suggest that we also put that item on the agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal is to be adopted under an urgent procedure. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents, if requested by the Proposer, and are not voted on. This is the point of the 47th final draft agenda, a proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulations2017/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 on living and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1102/2008 with final draft law, emergency procedure first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 465. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in respect of the adoption of the law in accordance with points 30-43 of 48-71 and point 78 of the final draft agenda? If there are no objections, I shall establish that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. Rule 205. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. Article 225(3) of the Rules of Procedure shall be read as follows: How appropriate. Article 225(4) The rules of procedure of written objections to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, which were sent with a call for a session, and were proposed to the final draft agenda, were not, I would like to conclude that these points were included in the agenda of the 10th session. These are points under r. No. 1, of 3-11 then 17 and 18 of 28-85. Madam and gentlemen, the agenda has been determined. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 228(1) of the Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda in an appropriate manner. I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full, but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established, as I have suggested in the final draft agenda, with the addition of the candidate's proposal, for the selection of the Commissioners for Information. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.15 HOURS]] Please take your seats. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition to the agenda of the 10th session with 24 new points. These are the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, with the final proposal for a law. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia with a final proposal for a law. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Private Partnership with the Final Proposal for a Law. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Encouragement of Investments with the Final Proposal for a Law. Proposal for a Law amending the Cooperatives Act with a final proposal for a law. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act. Final proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Final proposal of the Law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial examination. Final proposal of the Law on the participation of civilian experts in international missions and operations. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment. Final proposal of the Law confirming the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. Final proposal of the Law confirming the first additional protocol with the general rules of the World Postal Union. Final proposal of the Law confirming the 9th Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of a postal payment service agreement with the final protocol. Proposal for a law on freshwater fisheries. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act. Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities of election promotion and referendum. Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2017 with financial indicators. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the HRT Supervisory Board. Annual report on the work of the HRT Supervisory Board, as well as the implementation and control of the legality of the work and business of the HRT for the period from 1.1.2017 to 31.12.2018. Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2017 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act on line and occasional coastal transport. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means by Rule 227 of the Rules of Procedure to decide firstly on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure, in the case of the adoption of the law under points 1-5 of the proposed supplement? In the absence of any comments, a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, which have been written to the remaining points of the proposals for supplementing the agenda, have not been adopted, I would like to confirm that all the points proposed have been included in the agenda of the 10th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The SDP advocates' club opposes having one on Wednesday, I would say a fine day here with 33 laws relating to the State Inspectorate where Mr. Mikulic is creating a chair to move Mr. Prgomet out of the city's seat. And on that side instead of having a normal dynamic of several laws you want 33 laws in one day to discuss everything about Mikulić, HDZ and Prgomet I would ask you, I would ask that instead we do not have a break on the 15th of the Parliament but to continue to work, that we have normal labour dynamics and not that this Parliament adapts to HDZ [[Intruder president: colleague Maras.]] Here, thank you very much. [[Intruder President: Comrade Maras, can you finish please?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101581	So this is not at all the subject of what we're discussing right now and you've abused the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. So I repeat once again does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under points 2 to 12 of the proposed supplement? Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101582	Your Honor, it is not necessarily about the subject and the agenda, but it may be, in fact, be. Namely, I have addressed you and warned you of the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament where the Committee on Foreign Policy allegedly concluded that although there was no representative present by force of the chairman of the Committee. You told me to go to the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure, but nothing's going on. I know that our delegation is going to Marrakech, it is very important that the Committee on the Constitution discuss this because it was the request of the Vice-President of the Parliament to put this item on the table here for discussion on the Marrakech Compact or the Marrakech Agreement, please intervene and that the Committee on the Constitution discuss this complaint urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101583	Comrade Thunderbolt, this also has nothing to do with what we're doing right now. We're currently establishing the agenda, it absolutely has nothing to do with it. We are here to discuss the urgency of the points that we include in the agenda. It's an emergency. When your pipe breaks, it's also urgent that you didn't inform me about it. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101584	Mr. Jandrokovic, we are pushing into an emergency procedure this inspection procedure law, and we all know that this is not an urgent matter and that there is one urgent matter that is now planned for a few days to be introduced, just as a colleague of Grmoja has said, Croatia plans to sign the Marrakech Agreement, on this thing that is coming quickly on the subject, which is a global debate that has been discussed in the Bundestag, on this agreement already rejected by many European countries, including Switzerland. You simply took away the opportunity for us globalists to discuss in the Croatian Parliament, even on the board you discussed, you were unable to do so properly. And that's why my colleague Grumoja explains to you that he has made a complaint without acting. We feel like you've already decided in advance, and that all of this is what we're doing here, just one play for the public, so people have a vision, that there's democracy, and there's no D here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101585	Thank you. So, as far as the State Inspectorate Act is concerned, he's in the 2nd reading. So try and look and see that we've already passed the first reading, that this is the second reading, so there's no other procedure. If there are no objections, therefore, to conduct an emergency procedure, then all these points are also included. How appropriate. 225 paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the written objections to the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda, I note that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 10th session. CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 12:08 A.M. THE PRESIDENT: Dear colleagues and colleagues in accordance with Article 226, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, I will first propose to supplement the agenda of the 10th session with 23 new points. Since you received them by electronic means, I don't think there's a need to read them all, but of course we'll only go through those who deserve to be voted on, which is an emergency procedure. Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure lays down first that the proposal is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Article 206 of the Rules of Procedure lays down that, if requested by the applicant, the laws which are in conformity with the documents of the European Union are adopted and are not voted on by the applicant, by an urgent procedure. This is point 1, proposed Supplements, Proposal for a Labour Market Act with a final proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No 545. In accordance with Article 206, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, I find that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the Act under points 2 to 7 of the proposed amendments, such as the Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on Employment, the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters, the Proposal for a Law on the Quality of Health Protection, the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the National Foundation for the Support of Student and Student Standards and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Circularity of the Ministry and of Other Central Authorities of State Administration. Any objections? In the absence of any comments, the proposal for an emergency procedure pursuant to Article 205 of the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been accepted. In accordance with Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure, there were no objections to the remaining points of the draft agenda, I note that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 10th session. Now we're going to vote on the debated agenda points. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101587	Thank you, Mr. President. Last time we noticed that, in the voting plan, there was no debate on the point of the Household Act, he is now 52nd, but before last week we discussed the proposal for our interpretation of the frequent abuse of Ustasha greeting For a home ready, and it is also not in the vote of conclusions. How we are proposing and how our conclusions need to be voted, can you explain to us why the conditions for voting on these conclusions have not yet been met? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101588	I can tell you that the wheel will be voted upon when the conditions are met, and I expect it to be next Friday. Are you looking for a break on that? No, nothing. Comrade Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101589	Thank you, Mr. President. Please pause on behalf of the HNS Club, in order to further consult the vote on the scheduled agenda. Namely, today, here is my colleague Bauk mentioned, the Household Act is on the vote, this way I want to repeat it once more, and appeal to all MPs, that by accepting and voting for the HNS amendment,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101590	Comrade Curaj, just a second. So this point isn't on the agenda right now, we'll vote on it later, you get an electronic route. I ask you if you have any objections to those points that are now being voted on, then we'll take breaks, so, about those points that are now up, when that point comes to order, then you can ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101591	And not like the agenda, like the whole vote, right? It's individual, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101592	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101593	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101594	We've had such a principle so far, I think he's okay, if the party wants to consult more on some agenda point, that's what he asks before that point. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101595	Thank you. Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on the vote, so, about the pension reform, where nothing is resolved again. We have an annual deficit in the pension system of 17 billion, with what the government has proposed to this so-called pension reform, nothing is resolved to reduce the deficit. We 180 people leave Croatia daily because of the way the government leads the country. We have a demographic, we have a demographic disaster. There is nothing to be done by public administration reform, by reducing the state apparatus paid by our citizens, our entrepreneurs, even though an action plan has been left in the Ministry of Administration and for which 880 million kuna has been secured and funds are not implemented, so structural reforms are not being implemented. All we have here in the Assembly, is the birthright now in this Household Act, the democratic muscles of the HDZ and these liberal HNS, although we know that the Law will pass. Although we know that we have only 1 requirement of same-sex couples for foster care, children are not at all focused on what this law should be about, so we want to consult on all of this. Nothing is happening in terms of major reforms, the government does nothing but push us under the grain Marrakech Agreement, which this Croatian Parliament has not discussed, the delegation is leaving without confirmation of this Parliament and without a decision, a valid decision by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101596	Okay. This last one wasn't the agenda point now, but it was the agenda point, so I approve of the break. The apartment will last, a colleague of Bunjac also reports, otherwise the break will take 10 minutes. Tell your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101597	Well, thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGE Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute recess to consult once again within the Club on a failed pension reform, which will increase the debt to pay off pensions from 17 billion this year to 20 billion in 2020. What kind of reform is that if the pension and salary ratio gets worse? So, I would remind once again of the Convention which the Republic of Croatia has accepted that pensions should not be below 40% of the average salary, and in the Republic of.../Adversity President: Fellows and colleagues just a little colleague of Bunjac, just a little please, colleagues and colleagues, I ask for collegiance and correctness, my colleague Bunjac speaks and give him that because he is not heard at all from the marbles and noises you create, please... So, I would like to remind you that according to the International Conventions adopted by the Republic of Croatia, pensions should not be below 40% of the average salary, and this quasi reform will drop to 35% with a tendency to further decline. So, the Republic of Croatia violates those laws itself that it adopts and brings pensioners into the status of citizens of second order and social cases, which in no way can be called progress, but only by backwardness. It is very bad in the pension reform that introduces punishment for pensioners who are euphemistically called pensioners, where they are deprived of the many rights they have so far, and among other things, they will have to work until 67th year, they will not be able to go into early retirement, they will not even be able to dispose of the funds given in the third voluntary pillar. For all these reasons, and especially because of the harmfulness of the second pension stake, we are looking for a specified break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101598	The apartment will be approved. Come in, colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101599	Honored Mr. President, you see, we don't hear people talking to MPs, I suggest we put out these topics, that these handlers who just because of it There to go, to talk about serious issues [[Intruder: Col. Lovrinović, please be seated]] [[Intruder: And do not insult other colleagues, please sit down]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101600	We've got a 10-minute break. We'll continue at 12.25 hours. Session interruption at 12, 15 o'clock Honorable MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, good morning. Before we start working, I'd like to inform you about the work plan for tomorrow, just so you have the information, so we'd start at 9.30 with the amendments to the discussed laws, we have them for now 79. After that, we'd be taking the stand of representatives' clubs and then voting, so I guess, about 13 hours in view of 79, maybe even today, that the amendment, 3-4 hours in and out of clubs, so we don't end up taking out clubs, so we can all say goodbye, because tomorrow's the end of this session, so count, so, vote around 13 hours, and before that, the amendments and the club positions. As for today's agenda, we begin by announcing that during work, we would unite three points, that is: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, - Final proposal of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and - Final proposal of the Law on Supported Areas, these are similar topics, and then we would go united. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101602	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We oppose the merger of the final proposal of the Law on Mountain Mountains and the final proposal of the Law on Supported Areas because it is a very important law, that is, the Law on 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, which is the law on which we are considering separately whether this most important area cannot be discussed, above all, as the last point of the agenda, as the last points, and on the most important part of the Republic of Croatia, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, I ask you, fellow parliamentary representatives, to put this, Honorable President, this most important part of the Law at the last point. I think we need to discuss this individually, and I demand that these essential laws be discussed individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101603	All right, we'll vote on it, you know, here's a colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101604	Thank you, Mr. President, fellow Members and colleagues, I am absolutely opposed to the way the points are united that are important for the mountainous mountainous region of the Republic of Croatia and the assisted area of the Republic of Croatia, these two laws regulate life in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, it is embarrassing of this government and you to put these two essential laws on the agenda the last day, and in this mountainous area alone. For the last seven years, 12,000 people have moved out. [[Intruder: colleague Pranic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101605	A colleague named Pranic, like this, appeared on behalf of the club of his colleague Bulj, you can't look twice for the same thing on behalf of the same club and still say that someone is ashamed, so please sit down. Okay, but I'm asking you to sit down. [[I personally find it embarrassing that you're giving me a warning...]] Kola Pranic [[Intruder:...books...]] I can, I can ask you to sit down. [[Intruder:... how many people have moved away, 500 children are in elementary schools less...]] So now, given that there is a requirement not to combine these three points, according to the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on it, so please include a voting light. This point, or vote, does not require quorum, but the majority of the present representatives and therefore decides, yes, yes, please get involved, just to include a traffic light. So, I suggest you get united, turn off just now everyone, to read, so that then, this one, you can vote, I suggest a united discussion of three laws: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, - Final proposal of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and - Final proposal of the Law on Supported Areas. Please, let's vote. I find that most of it, 22 was for such a proposal, 15 was against it, so we're going to have a united discussion of these three laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101606	The representatives of the representatives’ clubs who request this may now be invited on the basis of Article 209a. Rules of Procedure shall be held by the position of my club, and after that I shall set a break of up to 15 hours and 15 minutes, when we shall proceed with the next point according to schedule. The first is on the schedule for taking a stand on behalf of the club, respected representative Zeljko Glasnović, but I will give him my word when we calm down together so whoever wants to come out, whoever wants to sit, listen. Here it is, I think that now, mostly everyone who wanted to leave has left, so, uh, I'm giving the word to the respected representative, Željko Glasnović, who will present the position of the club of representatives independent of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go. Please, we can keep it down a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101607	Dear colleagues, before this economics speech this morning was a matter for the government regarding the arrests of Nikola Kaikic and Zorica Greguric at the border crossing down in Batorca, where the diplomatic note, a report from the MUP, what is next? And that's more than alarming. That's where we need to react. We still need all the answers. Here, now about the economy. Yesterday, G2 ended this conference of economies organised by Mr. Josip Hrgovic, a returner from Venezuela, and he only tied up hundreds of business entities from the Republic of Croatia outside and all praise to him, he does, but there is still an obstacle. We have some statistics that the total cumulative investment last year is 2 billion of this EUR, of course, is without contributions every year from a diaspora that is larger than this. We now have 10 new air flights, a line introduced, the Start project has begun to be able to digitize, start a job in a day's time. But I wonder if it's like that why we don't have an e-signature yet, where's that synchronization.? We also have a new Law on Croats outside the country who are now on the table, not all amendments have been completed and we have other things, for example. ... A Croat outside the country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Secretary of the Economy spoke yesterday and he asked one question, things are going better, but he asked this. That someone else is holding back, who is holding back this progress economically and in all these other areas the rhetorical question. Here's 20 years we've been taping in place because we haven't solved the basic questions, and why? We know why, yeah. The other governments weren't nationalally conscious, they could handle all this. ... A Croat outside the country. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Returning, citizenship because that is where the descendants of those 100,000 Germans were driven here after 45 years, who live today in Germany because in the Republic of Croatia, this Benesh's cleavage is still in effect as in the Czech Republic. These are Croatians of German origin, they've been here for hundreds of years. Why is that, we know. Here's the whole structure of the former system and the personnel that signed the law from the former state and their successors moved to this country along with the mental set and promises. They have fought against themselves all their lives, the very idea of the Croatian state, we couldn't expect them to accept this country. Why are we today the 45th out of 170 countries in terms of competitiveness, business? That sounds good 45 out of 170, but we are at the bottom of the EU. Why haven't we cut our taxes so far, cut our administration, raised our salaries? Where's the code of ethics for civil servants? Which we need, we have 50% of government employees who each employee would have to sign there and answer with a minimum of 3 to 5 years in prison. If he's wrong about the law, he works for the state, where are your simple laws? They don't exist. What's the business atmosphere like, and who's intruding her here? It's being violated by the media, not the Croatian media. Imagine you, they create an atmosphere of despair and hopelessness and a nonstop attack on a state they never wanted. These are the heirs of these former personnel... and there is a daily psychological attack against the Croatian state and destructive criticism. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine you write in a daily newspaper in America, Texas, for example. when you think the U.S. will fail. Well, that's the level of high treason. But these juzoboids, I don't know what else to call them, who praises the former state, who... They create, they create psychosis that people go out. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's intentional sabotage, intentional. I'd tell them maybe to go back to those non-classified, you remember the unclassified, the South. Where is he today? Let them go to Cuba up there where he pays a doctor 40 bucks a month, go to India where two thousand women are burned minimum daily, you have killings from this out of honor, let them talk there about the Istanbul Convention, etc. Let them go to Venezuela, Mr. Hrgotic came back from Venezuela and started a business, who talks about Croats in Venezuela? You have hundreds of Croats there who have more, who are academically educated. Who's calling them here? Some are led by huge companies. Here, but unfortunately, for these zombies and their successors, who run from Split to Zagreb, because the Republic of Croatia is here and you won't get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101608	Thank you. The following will speak on behalf of the independent club for Croatia's respected representative Zeljko Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101610	Dear colleagues, now that we're sitting here, there's a protest going on between these trade unions... action, it's a more harmless business in the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they're not, of course, asking for bigger salaries, better equipment, just asking to stop that attachment to the MUP because they would act as an independent organization, they've done so well so far. Here, if it is attached to the MUP, it will violate some of the conventions, in fact it will violate the content of the Octan Convention, which requires independent action from such organisations. They received last year, in fact, 144 million euros in last year. There's still 204 million of this projected for further action. That cycle would stop, they'd fit into the MUP and then they'd... They would get less pay and, of course, their demands are real. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I say that? Here, at the mines his first mistake and last mistake, they say in the army. I died 10 mines a year after the war, down in BiH of our people, 10 people demining in peace. The victim here was killed by 38 deminers, 60 were badly wounded, and 32 were injured more easily, uh, wounded, it was an entire company thrown out of the machine. Here, again, I'm advocating to the government to stop that decision. There hasn't been a reading of that law yet, but I think he's unnecessary. And at the end of this morning, a debate this morning. We started off with the reform tax and somehow ended up with the fascising. I don't know who took the Ustasha oath here, who's in the Nazi party, my brain stopped. This one pulled the yogurt out here somewhere, it's now an exhibition about Vukovar out there. Here's to remind ourselves, Vukovar. When the crowns were laid in Vukovar in 1945 for victims, April, when two hundred of the most prominent citizens of Vukovar were killed, here, no one ever remembers that. Deleting collective memory. Serbia ahead of us. Serbia has partisan, communists, shooting victims of Croats in Serbia, also have 50,000 victims of Serb victims of communist terror, what do we have? We've got Americans coming from, uh, here from the embassy, and they're making a deal with the Department of Defense to find 60 other 60 pilots from World War II. And we have tens of thousands killed and no one. Totally deleted collective memory. No DNA analysis. Here, we're going to have these discussions here until history, while we're doing factography, facts because history is a branch of science, he didn't say, not even the yellow press and he started some kind of offensive again in... The media, of course, morning paper. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not surprised up there for the New List, but that's got to end, and we're gonna get the impression that we're still living in some kind of ludicrous communist Caliphate. It's easy, just do an analysis of who works in the papers, who runs NGOs and you so-called. historians who still go through the Faculty of Philosophy and poison our brains with Yugoslav propaganda. It is not surprising to me that the left of Croatia is, in fact, missing, left-handed in Croatia. The left in Croatia thinks what the right in Serbia thinks. And so. Until it's fixed, until we write our own history, we're... Guys, until that truth comes out, we'll be trapped in the trenches of World War II. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who pays for our people's studies outside social sciences post diplomatic studies, how much did we invest in these people? We have here, uh, conscriptors, agitators, some quote the Bible, that's funny, we have people like that here, and they haven't read three books in English, they don't know any languages, they haven't been to Washington, and there's more reading there... than we have here in the archives, and that's all funny to them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They totally ignore the aristics,... The class genocide and the disappearance of the Croatian people from these areas, as it came.../incomprehensible/... as they came out there, from whom they fled, they had to slip away from here but unfortunately the heirs of the regime are still here and still terrorize us and keep us as hostages of their past. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101611	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101612	Based on an article. 249a. The Rules of Procedure will now move to a position on behalf of the clubs. First statement of view by a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the representative's club Independent for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101613	Dear colleagues, a lot of people called me this morning for something that is actually shocking, in every country it would be shocking, except in the Republic of Croatia, here. I'm looking at the Facebook page today, someone showed it to me from the gentleman, this, not the gentleman, fake Knight Matija Babic from the Index, the reply to the menu Dalic, who published there to dedicate the match in England, the town of Vukovar. And Mr. Babic, it says on Facebook, oh Jesus, here's another fool. I'm just wondering, it's just the tip of the iceberg, how long the defenders, their families, victims of the homeland war, Croatian victims in general, will suffer such an attack from these left-wing, these, circles. They are still here, on the websites from Zagreb to Split, what will the MUP do on this issue, which is the response of the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior for such vomits that insult both people and religions and customs and traditions. And that comes from those people who never wanted the Republic and we put up with it and keep quiet. If I told any other minority, I'd be in court right now, and they'd crucify me, someone out there like an oclerofascist or a radical, getting up, etc. That's scary. They hide behind fake Internet profiles, that rat line from Zagreb to Split you have, so I say this: don't hide behind these fake profiles, get out of the sewers you crawled out of and come see who you are, post a press conference. You have false torcidators down there who don't know who Frano Tante, Frane Tante is, in fact, who, who hate HoS, Croatian state, Croatian faith and here, are these characters. I remember that terrible event in France, Charlie Habdo, what if God didn't happen when he broke up with one of the defenders whose family was murdered, raped relatives, people who were killed in Manacha and other places, special police of Republika Srpska jumped to the chest, who were tortured, etc. What happens if he comes here so God doesn't, who's gonna be to blame? Screenplay Charlie Habdo, I'm afraid of it, and I repeat again: Let these rats come out of their dens publicly, let's see who they are, here, let's see who they are and why they spit, we know why they spit on the Croatian state because that Trojan horse that never wanted this country, they disguised themselves as Democrats, Liberals, cosmopolitans. Now they're fighting for multiculturalism, and they can't hide hatred against their people, their faith because they've stayed in their heads and will always be mentally Yugoslav. It's the biggest threat to the Republic of Croatia that destroys this society, that's why we can't move forward. The second threat is regionalism, to turn Croats outside the country against Croats in the country, to spread hatred towards Croats from BiH, to divide the Republic of Croatia into Dalmatia, to Istria. I didn't know there were any when I lived outside. The Croats were all Croats, here. Who encourages that hatred, silent? That Trojan horse is still here, until we get rid of it, I don't think there's any worse consequences, I'm asking them to take a look at the little ones who are listening to my phones and other parliamentary deputies, the ones from the MUP, from the former UDBE, etc., let them deal with these characters. Here, you have people like that here, you have people like that, thousands, there are thousands of documents, that whole system, they've entered this system, and let's deal with that Trojan horse, and I won't talk about academic lustration anymore, but let's see how many of these characters it has. I think there are 30% of people who live in this country who never wanted her and who have pathologically hated the Croatian state and hated the hydrant. Here, again, conclusion, let's see what the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior does with the minister, wants to launch some kind of investigation, not just, this is just the tip of the iceberg. How long will they be allowed to insult the Republic, it's unimaginable out there, unimaginable, here. The difference between the real left-wing parties from outside to the Republic of Croatia and the left-wing parties, who are real Social Democrats, love their country, and there is totally the other way around. These, camouflaged left-wings in the Republic of Croatia are defacto former Yugoslavs who have pathologically hated the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101614	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101615	Let's move on now. It is next, dear colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101616	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. The same ping-pong political, it bothers people, and we don't worry about important things. Yes, Mr. Panenic, yes, Vukovar. The Vukovar in '45, Vukovar in '91. 'Who laid a crown there in the center of Vukovar where it was killed, all the best citizens of Vukovar '45 in April? No one. Thousands of mass graves, it doesn't interest anyone here, so he'd like his future and not... That old mantra. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here,... Croatia, so why do I ask this question? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're being led by the state by the same uncommunist footage that led her to the '90s, why are you surprised? The entire judiciary, former judges, the entire institutions run by your former communists. You have a state, most of the suburbs of London, you haven't settled the legal system, I've given the Justice Committees, the Parliament, as a remedy for this legal mess, without it there's nothing if there's no political will. I'm waiting for an answer. How real is the gray economy in Croatia? 30%, you can't do that either, people don't pay taxes, that's why you don't have kindergartens, schools, and so, the same south thieves, same metal heritage, the metal heritage of communism, socialize. Here, and these communists, they couldn't even keep that snotty Yugoslavia, some of them sitting here, these snotty Yugoslavs, that's what I have to call them. Why didn't you raise an armed rebellion in the Vulcan Mountains or in Kalnik, there to defend that country when it collapsed? Because you were afraid that they would come from Belgrade, those who replaced the cocardine with a five-pointer, would come here for you in Zagreb, so you had to enter a country you never wanted. Here, for one functional state, you need clear political and moral attitudes, such as you don't have, it's proven. Here, you're rocking the Bandic, he's one of you. He's an example of homo-Yugoslave, he'd survive on Mars without oxygen. And here she is, with you, he's one of you. Here, recently I was somewhere in Germany, started ironing me up there, some neo-Nazi, I saw older women there, people who work their whole lives, not assholes and parasites and who take care of their own country, yeah, APF, but I'm, well, I'm gonna finish now, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101617	Comrade Glasnović, please avoid simple words. Not that, but use simple words that are inappropriate. And I don't know, I have it. You probably don't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101618	Comrade Glasnović, please avoid simple words. Not that, but use simple words that are inappropriate. And I don't know, I have it. You probably don't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101619	And I don't know, I have it. You probably don't have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101620	Here, here you have, yeah, like this. Who nobody's talking about, I've had ten dozen foreign volunteers in my unit. Why did they come down to Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina? We know Jean-Michael Nicoleier, who died in Vukovar, who was guarding... NPD, 20 years dead, killed down, shaking hands against ISIL, in central Bosnia? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Jurgan Schmidt, my deputy, died further, wounding himself in Central Bosnia... That's not what the Croats are interested in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All they care about is the money, Pretty Bren and the tea. And also, Michael Surovic, died, from the Legion came down to defend, defend Croatia there at the border of the Holy Roman Empire. They've defended these anemics, buttocks, and mushrooms here, to spare their buttocks, their buttocks, I can't say that. Here, and what did you get, what state did you get? A country of skis, former personnel, it's never done an illustration, we're spinning again, here's the young people, young people have no idea, they have no idea. You've got media that are actually moral typhoids, they have moral AIDS, you won't hear this, you'll hear Glasnović, fascists, neofascists, I don't see any, I don't know anyone in Croatia, say, 'who took the Ustasha oath, is there a head like that here? But that's what we got, we got CROslavia, you used to go there to Belgrade to kiss someone in the buttocks, now you're going to Brussels, you're looking for an independent Croatian state, an independent Croatian state, and you've actually got "Croslawia in Euroslavia" with... the other which it imposes on you, imposes on you these values which are not Croatian values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, to wish your children were going, you're all for a transgender, a potential transgender person, let your children go to the bathroom there, the gender neutral, the gender neutral toilets, there boys etc., and it comes here and these aren't Croatian values, neocommunism. And everyone's playing some kind of big now, these ex-humans, cosmopolitans, humanists fake, humanists. And while you're thinking about it, you have millions of Africans sitting on suitcases to come to Europe, illegal immigrants. In America, you have at least 16, 20 million illegal migrants, and the handle on Trump, that's reality. Germany will pay for this now with Brexit, 17 billion will fall on the back of Germany and you will rebel all you want but it will come to you here and here, you will have 10 years from now, the Chinatown.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101621	Comrade Glasnović, thank you very much. A colleague, Glavasevic, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101622	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been broken. I mean, I stand absolutely for freedom of speech, and I think it's perfectly fine that anyone who's chosen has the right to say what they want. But on the one hand, I don't understand why General Glasnović doesn't like Croatia to be insulted the day after we had, the Day of Remembrance of Vukovar Victims, in this way to speak ugly terms about the country I think that we should all present here, I don't think it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101623	You received a warning from your colleague Glavasevic because you deliberately misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He can't replica this without the possibility of replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101624	The next club is the independent for Croatia, in the name of which the respected representative Zeljko Glasovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101625	Dear colleagues. Looks like he's back in Croatia again a verbal delinquent, media censorship, this morning there was one, this one for the media, press conference, no one showed up, every honor to those from Split, TV Jadran, I can understand why some didn't come, because there's a business that says if you're telling the truth, you'll get the anger of the people. If you're not telling the truth, you're gonna get the wrath of God, I'm more afraid of God, by that, here, not only that, but I was just going to say hello to a class of art school, here in the hall, and I got a leg, she gave me a teacher's leg when she saw my head, and what we're going to do, that's, she's in charge there, it's not easy for her. Here, just a summary of what we talked about this morning, here. For some Croatia will be only good, this paid passing profession is a lot of people not important national security, we have a man who is now in charge of the Committee of Internal and National Security, who was the minister of the MUP, when dozens of guns, long pipes, explosives disappeared, and he is today the head of this Committee. Incomprehensible, here. Our threats are primarily not external but... internally, that means dysfunctional institutions, uh, nelados, some levels, that's corruption, we don't have legal, financial, economic security, and that's been said for years, but nothing yet, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basics of the last regime have not yet been broken down, here, I have waved many times with one file, this is only one file of people who worked for security services, in Croatia each of the taxi drivers, you have a radio taxi down from the former system, until judges worked for secret services. It's just one file, here. Now these people, is it possible that such people are back in institutions, is that morally correct? Our problem is not only this institutional, or economic or social problem, but it's primarily moral. I also showed documents not to wave here all day, if I have it, some documents, uh, declassify after 50 years, it's all in the paper, in the National, in the Globe, on the street. Here, the English get these documents, they haven't opened the World War I documents yet when they shot their men for desertion. And nothing. I also read, the ones who, the names of some who infiltrated, are our community out there. There's one, that's where I keep his name, but we don't want his name, but the surgeon's code name, he works in Sydney, there's the Croats, we know that some of them got eight years in prison, not guilty, not in debt and now, and his son was working on this side, this one, the Atlantic, the Pacific. So what? It's repeating itself, it's also repeating itself, the Pacific, well... is, this, here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have, for example, now. The problem of NGOs, we know what's out there, they're ratting us out, you have... which writes letters to 48 statesmen on a strategic level, we have an Annex D to return these documents from Belgrade, there they tap in place, they keep these documents. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why do they keep the papers? That's why there's these code names, the files of these lumens I've been talking about now, and they're a threat to national security. And this Annex was ratified in 2004. Since then, nothing, tap in place. Where is this law on the origin of property that would solve a lot of things? How can some judges, Supreme Judges, have a property worth EUR 500,000? How is that possible? How does it work with us, uh, repressive, uh, apparatus, if we have up to 30% of this, gray economy? That's unimaginable. Is it just you have phantom companies, people who register companies to other names, it's a daily phenomenon, I'd say, there used to be 19,000 per company file without any employees. Energy, who knows they've moved, Montenegrins have moved the border to Boca Kotarska, which is where the battle for energy is being fought. What does the people know about it? To build up what I told you before here, 2,000 hydropower plants. We haven't solved anything on the Balkan Peninsula yet, or anything. This is still a deep, deep, secluded state and I am, and it was clear to me when I read a newspaper and watched, when I looked here at our lumen from the former system, which appeared in the newspaper, here, and it's actually that picture that we're looking at here today, which I'm showing you here, it's the gene of the ruling structure and a good part of the Croatian people. And that's why we can't move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101626	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101627	We're going to the 8th debate. A colleague named Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Advocacy Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101628	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Nonstop listening to mantra we have good laws just no application, that's half true. There's a law of course, the mechanism hasn't been built yet, and we hear it every day here and how it is. These laws apply selectively. I'm not going to say, that law on the return of property, decommunisation, that's all the EU has ordered and we're with... The EU and we don't listen to them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because the former frames are networked, that's a different story. Here comes the Household Act. What's going on here? Kids, kids, they've been waiting for years, kids in those facilities. Who's taking care of them? We have devastating data that 49 children were fostered and adopted in 2005, last year, in '17. Not one child, actually. What's that? Lack of coordination, between institutions, bureaucracy, so we're sick of excuses, these are key issues. Those kids are waiting. What can we do? The process needs to be shortened, until the trial, until the decision is made, it takes two years before the child is destroyed, because he lives in dysfunctional families. As far as possible, they transferred responsibility, social care to courts. Those courts never saw those children, they weren't in their homes. And they wait, they wait, they wait. From the decision, from taking care of biological parents, it takes years, years. Here's another little life ruined. And what's there, what's the mystery, if you've abused a child, you need to take the child away right now, there's no excuse, but wait for years. Here, it takes a minimum of two years for that decision. There are no foster parents, so who will foster children, when too many rights have these abusers. To fix his teeth, he needs a signature from those parents who abused that child. It's rape of common sense. What does he do about, uh, adoptions of children, the Ministry of Demography and family? When they last issued a state certificate, for children no one will adopt, and these are children with developmental difficulties, they have them by their homes. They were not adopted in Croatia, no one wants those children, but they are foreign families, Italy, etc. Catholic families. And why isn't that done now? They give me information from the Ministry of Family and Demography, as many children have been adopted. Not only that, but there's not enough room in the homes for those kids. Special homes, they can't do all those aunts, social workers, because there's a ratio of 6;1 they don't have child love. It's an industry, it's an honor for social workers. Here, every kid needs, not just his lawyer in court, but who's gonna take care of his rights, who's gonna ask those kids. And we're going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and I worked for 10 years in law enforcement and after 16 years from these dysfunctional families... It's gonna be a new monster I have to say, it's not too hard word, it's not too hard word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you should give these children volunteers, those who will defend their rights, who will speak for them in court, not people who have never seen those children, have never been in a home. Those salon strategists. We need to simplify this family law, simple laws, let's move on, rather than wait, wait and wait. The situation will only get worse. It takes every 12 months. to do quarterly reports, there, those who adopted, fostered children, to see how it works. In the end, I would recommend you go before Christmas to those homes, to your constituency units, to see what those children need. Little heads need diapers. Those kids also have a Christmas wish list. Look what they need, don't wait for those bureaucrats and those inert courts to do it. If you can dog, those hairy pets lead every morning, there for a walk, you can go up there, I know that some of them sleep with these pets, they're very fond of them, and let them go up those influenzars and these, when I hear that word I'm unconscious, influenzars and metrosexuals, go upstairs. Don't wait for the courts to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101629	Comrade Glasnović, I beg you, that though when you talk about human beings, you don't mention the expression of a monster, okay, I think there's... There's a limit, and you can't, please don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101630	.../Intruder Glasnovic: If someone abuses a child with cerebral paralysis, it's a monster for me./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101631	I agree, but the context was a little different, please don't say such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101632	The next position on behalf of the club will be that of the Independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Glasovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101633	Dear colleagues, there is one phenomenon in our society that is dangerous. The freedom of speech seems to be compromised. You can see that every day from the daily press. This is what we see, Article 133 of the former state will appear to reintroduce that SFRJ Penal Code Article 133, for example. if you have offended another one of the protective characters for four years in custody. And now there's another term of hate speech. What we have here in Croatia, some as parrots have taken over, this notion has come up in the Americas in the 1970s at universities, universities, and we have taken over that relative term all the time. What exactly is the word of hatred, who will make him, what is his meaning, who is it, what is the word of hatred? Here you have in the House because one man warned that a man was sitting here, one who was working with the former Secret Service. He had a code name. He called a press conference. This was not about the media, but about the man who was telling the truth. That means that hate speech is actually a speech of truth mixed with hate speech. It's evened out in our country. What we often have here is the word Ustasha, the clerofashist, this nice, right. I wonder why no one has objected to these concepts, sought these phantoms, those fascists, neo-Nazis in the '90s, but now? Why didn't they attack them and clean the country of such people if they existed? It's a question of one. The issue of censorship in the media. I'm actually the biggest advocate of freedom of the media and against only censorship and editorial censorship. Here, and we in Croatia know that it has been abolished... on Croatian television, we know that. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's just that they repeat those floscules in the daily press, people aren't interested in the truth, they're those haired phrases that we hear all the time. We need to take care of the future, not the past, no lessons learned, no real research, just that it's placed in the same media. And of course people are in despair. We heard so one speech now we heard today, but nothing about the causes, before me we heard such a speech of hopelessness and despair. And say what hate speech is? If I tell someone there was a first-rate egg out there in the former state, it's hate speech. And what are first-class eggs? The ones that painted the eggs? They didn't celebrate Easter, so they painted eggs on May 1st. There's a lot of people like that in the system. It'll soon be a hate speech. And that means the truth, the truth. Who's the attorney general representing? Does she even care if I say this now that there's a group that uses children to get state benefits, money from the state, and she visits children in homes for carefree children and stops foster care and adoption, and that's where they come in Mercedes, is that hate speech? That's not even to be said by this public defender because she seems afraid to say that someone will call one name, say racist or so on. It's our reality, it happens. There are other groups of course. Here's why she didn't talk about discrimination against Croats outside the country. There's 3 million of them here. These people don't even have the right to vote. They've got a formal. They have to fly six hours to vote, and that's what I've said five times for this pay phone. Who's representing them? What is it, today was at the beginning of the session discussed the cataster and the land books. So how come we haven't put those two offices together yet, these two institutions? And who's talking, did the attorney general ever say that the most fundamental human right to private property was compromised? And that didn't get rid of it. And what are the consequences of that? Why does it not wonder why Croatia has not implemented any of the European Union's three resolutions to deal with the consequences of communism and causes? Did she ever say anything to this Mrs. McNally? Vidovic. Mrs. McNally. Vidovic? A hundred bodies were excavated in Tuškanca, the Gracan 300 bodies. You have two mass graves through the Department of Defense. Not a word, not a word. When you look at the hate speech so the party this Independent I get messages every day, the milk will get wet, and who am I gonna sue? I got right. That's where I sit and let them iron on me. I won't complain and that's freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101634	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101635	Following on behalf of the club of Independents for Croatia is counterpart Zeljko Glasovic, please welcome colleague Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101636	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, today we remember General Praljko, some remember, an honorable man, was my commander and all the praises of this, Mr Zekanovic, that he lit a candle here in front of the Parliament, I congratulate him. We all know here all the time that mantra rule of law, here. We all know without economic financial, above all, legal certainty, no one is going to invest, it's all just flossules. Nobody's going to go to a country where it takes 30 months for a work permit, where they can't register a company, like in other countries, where everything is digitized, where the government of corruption and the mental circuit, hang out. I submitted the document on 24 October one with 15, uh, points for curbing corruption. It went away, I mean the 7-8 Committee, it went to this National Council for the Corruption Prevention Strategy, I asked for an answer for 30 days, I got only one answer from, it surprised me, of course, thank you, uh, from this main man in the Committee on National Security who said it wasn't metric, his Committee on That. If corruption isn't about the national security that kills us the most here, then I don't know what it is. Not to read all those points, there was, I was looking for the development of a clear strategy, not a scrupulous measure... corruption. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Above all, the establishment of a system of individual responsibility and an ethical code that every employee who works for the state must also sign stricter penalties. Look at tax records, surveillance, uh, financial transactions, we have thousands of companies that aren't registered and a black list of entrepreneurs who work non-transparently and who steal the state, here, right. Today about law, we also have a debate today about one, this, a war cry, in Croatia is strength, I won't do too much about it. We remember Lex Perkovic and the rule of law, we remember all the barricades, and it took the German court to condemn a party system that reigned criminally until the 1990s and which is now completely amnesty. Now I wonder, under which symbol people were killed from Vukovar to Konaval via Scabrnja, what are... The helmets? The so-called People's Army, of course, does not worry anyone, but we are now going to the soles of Croatian defenders and Hos. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's only one piece of scientific evidence. If the Partisans had killed since 1941, this has been blocked in the mainstream media, from 1941 to September 1945 and is more than Hungarians, Bulgarians, Chetniks, Ustashas, Ballists, Germans and all others, it's scientific, it's proven scientific. You have mass graves around Zagreb, you have thousands in Slovenia so far discovered, nothing to anyone. Then we've got the attorney general, who's putting down the smoke curtains, and he's not talking about mass graves. You have the Ministry of Defense, there was General Medved, hundreds of bodies were excavated, you have through the Ministry of Defense, two mass graves. There's a new mass grave at the church over there, at Dubrava's over there, that's none of your business. So ask, are we, demographics, what you're saying all the time about demographics, monsters, demographic monsters. There were 132000 Croats in Lica in 1941, plus the coast. How many do you have today? You may have 40,000, where did those Croats go, did anyone ask themselves here? You have three resolutions, this, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. Two for decommunization, and so, they've all been ignored, systematically ignored and here, we're going back, we're going back to the beginning of the point, where we were in 1989. In fact, we're getting more and more back to 1989. Why is that happening? Here, there's a list here, it doesn't interest a lot of people, where is this... Problem? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a list of people who worked for KOS, for Secret Service, some of them sitting in the Parliament. Is this taboo theme? How can I be, what I said again, 15 times I think, it's ignored by the mainstream media. If their file is in the SUP in Belgrade, and you know what, not all the files are destroyed, if I have this, what does this BiH military intelligence service have, what they have down there in Serbia, and so on, here are just some topics for thinking and discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101637	Thank you. Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101638	Thank you very much. We will now stop for a moment with the amendments and move on to taking a position on behalf of the club and first we will ask the independent representative, the respected representative Željko Glasović, to say what he has to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101639	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the real topics of agriculture, waste, ecology, and I wonder, where is this mechanism that was to be established, that it takes years for a country that is suburb of London to establish a system that is environmentally acceptable. I'm going back to that debate yesterday that lasted until midnight, there's one saying, Arabic, a saying that says this isn't a dangerous one who doesn't know, but one who thinks he knows and doesn't.> That's what the whole system looks like to me. Here, yesterday we saw a rape of social sciences, if so in social sciences in the assembly, what happens in other institutions, that ignorance, so much ignorance. Here, when are we going to experience this catharsis? Yesterday we returned to Stalin winter, there the Stalinism of the winter of '45, '33, Ukraine, what I heard yesterday, man, a normal man who can think in a critical way must fall unconscious. What did we hear? There's this MP, they've never heard of the Rapal Treaty. Rapal contract. Look, Big Mishto, there this one, that Miljenko Smojje wrote a book, I think you have a TV show, he's there, he's an oryon and a Yugoslavian, but here he knows that they gave Istria Trumbić and Pasic there, according to the Rapal Treaty, gave the Italians the entire eastern coast of the Adriatic, all the way to Zadar and the islands of the '20s, they don't know that our lumens here from the Parliament. And every boy should know that. When you heard from Mitri Lojtić, fascist, the first Fascist to determine after the Italian lineup in Split. Mitri Lojtic, the 20s in Split, lined up. No one's heard of him. And you're talking about fascism. This counterfeiting of victims, it's terrifying what's going on here, we heard the same one MP, it's terrifying to repeat the same thesis of great Serbian imperialism, Communism as the historical truth, that's why there's no catharsis, that means left-handed in the Croatian Mass, the same thing the right-wing in Serbia thinks. That was proven yesterday. The Ministry of Immigration. What about the Ministry of Immigration? You don't want these people here to come set up your system. People are waiting. We were talking about... Meatball. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about Boris Miksic? The man two, I mentioned before, two factories is, in Croatia runs two factories, the man has built his wealth in America, came here invest'o, has connections outside, but do not want Mr. Miksic, want Mister Mesic. The former communist party official, you wanted him, the Croats, these, the ones who defended him yesterday, the man who disappeared $50,000, a check of $50,000. We've been defending him since yesterday. Everything else is secondary if he doesn't get rid of that legacy from the former state. Remember those non-refundable loans? It's a non-refundable loan. So how? So we have economists here, how many economists from the former state where, uh, your craft burned? So as it's possible that you bought the house, got a loan, and you paid with hyperinflation, the house cost you 3 cartons of cigarettes, here,... Yeah, yeah, yeah, [[attack: speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it, but... [[attack: speaker doesn't understand.]] But they got individual heads, they got partyers and former staffs,... [[attack: speaker doesn't understand.]] They could... [[attack: speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101640	Comrade Pernar, let's not leave the scene, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101641	...to get it, it could get a privileged class, a red nobility, yeah, and others were running away, that's why there are 3 million people out there. Here, grants, 100 billion kuna was given in '92. the years for agriculture, so you've all been sitting here, the democrats allegedly, the Social Democrats, where the thousands of cows, the OPGs, are, there is, where, where it is, where it's gone, and come here to the city, in Zagreb, block the roads of farmers, and the tractors are worth 500,000, 500000 euros, and where the cows are wondering. Here in the end, Just Istvan wrote the book Partizan, an innocuous partisan, what did he say? The main flaw of Partisan is lies and deception.> Today we live in lies and deceptions. And this is how we play Social Democrats, Democrats, and it's still the former system. But he's got help, he's got help for everyone. He's got help, because it's... genetic transmissions, that assembly, that's what I said before, there is, Mr. Pernar if you listen to other heads, has help for the communists, because it's stuff mental disorder, there's a lot of these people, psychologists, so I can treat heads if I have to, both younger and older. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101642	Now it is up to a respected colleague, Zeljko Glasnovic, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101643	Dear colleagues, here can't Christmas without the Grinch, here's the Grinch for some heads here. I get letters every day from people outside the country, some are disappointed, of course, one sent me a letter, says he believed in the rule of law, institutions, what did we get? Double taxation, no return of national property, thousands of people waiting for the return of nationalised property, which has been taken away. What about justice? At least academic lustration, not even L of lustration. Today at 7 p.m., in the Journalist House, Croatia down in the center of Zagreb, Mr Ante Nobilo, our own, our lumen of this legal system Justen Biber, has today a book about the comforters, imagine the process... Perkovic, 19 o'clock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the man who was the chief prosecutor, when Tomislav Sunic's convicted father, a professor who works here at the Foreign Ministry, was four years old reading the newspaper, the sister got from Mr. Sunic nine months ago. And he asked for a stricter sentence in Požega, there's a woman's prison for reading newspapers and he's today... here in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Come and ask him these questions, whether there will be a speech about the killings of Croats there in Germany, that is the current question, here are just some names, Antun Kostic, Josip Senić, Frano Mikulić, Jozo Miloš, Nikola Penova, Drago Mihalić and there are as many as you want, 40-50 at least. Here's Luka Kraljević, shot in the head, he went blind. What an advent he will be, here he is still living in Germany, Nikola Milicevic dismembered in the garden, there in Munich. Djuro Zagoski, etc. Let's move on, and as far as possible now, it's someone who's set up here, as is possible now, if 800 comforters got into the system, they didn't make that clear. Here, file, code name Harris, who followed these people? If this has Glasnović, who doesn't have a security system, millions of kn available, how come they didn't solve it? That's not gonna work out, why? Because that's where all the ex-shots were put, sitting there, having code names, of course. This is not a Croatian state, and it's proven, people are waiting outside. Here, one wife from Mr. Milicevic, five children she had, what an advent they would have when they killed their father. I have other things now, political prisoners, what about them? One time a bomb went off in a coffee shop in Split, is that a terrorist action? They were getting for the abuse of 52 kn per day, which they were peeling there at minus 10 on the Zenica, in Leprechaun and no one, catharsis is gone. Let these young people's human rights initiatives, these current skiers, the attorney general, this Miss Vesna Tersalic, ask for example. Shevo family, murdered in Italy in '70. Mr. Family, there was a young Rosemary Chevo, 9 years old killed by Vinko Sindičić, who walks here in Istria, walks on the island, there's no such thing as Istrians here, as they're called. It wasn't just the Croats, there were other nationalities, I don't see Mr. Popovec here, I don't see him here in '77. In Chicago, a young Ivanka Milosevic, a young Ivanka Milosevic, was murdered, who remembers her, what kind of state is this? So whoever killed her, these same ones. 67 stings were killed, 67 children of 9 years old, it wasn't in the war, it was after the war, and her killer is walking around Belgrade, where these great human human rights associations are. There is no catharsis in Croatia, because there are people vaccinated against the truth and we're still acting... Democracy, and the legal system that should represent everyone and the 3-5 million Croats out there, is not working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today we're going to talk about what, about anti-fascism and we're still on, we're going back, not in '89. It's '52. Sir, while people were killed here on the doorstep and unfortunately today is the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101644	Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101645	Dear colleagues, the state budget has been adopted, we are entering a new fiscal year and now the process of internal and external surveillance begins, so how does it work now? In no way, not only in the state budget process, but in other institutions, he failed the exam. I hope now that the unification of 15 of these inspection services into one will improve the situation. 15 inspection services in one to improve the situation. Let's take an example of agriculture, I said a week ago it was spent in '92. Mr. 100 billion kuna on farm incentives, where is that visible? You have an example. Osijek, you have a Faculty of Agriculture, 370 entries, there are no 90 students who signed up, there are no fruit and vegetable processing factories in Osijek or in Djakov, what are you doing with it, there are peasants, I don't know what they do with it, if you can't process fruits, vegetables and we're talking about imports, that we're getting killed by imports. Let's go with tax administration supervision, last year 219 147 payment measures were paid and that sounds good and in reality you have,... which says this you have bigger lies and statistics, what is the real situation, 564 million kunas are paid and a few years ago, individuals and companies owe the state 50 billion kuna and we wonder what will happen to the health system and pension system if these thieves don't pay taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why not just a privatisation review so far, it's an old mantra, but an audit of the pre-bank settlement. You have one man out there from Istria, he ran it, and he made one statement to steal it, he would steal it if he didn't catch it and not rat on someone else, that's what the man who engineered the pre-trial settlement said. What can we expect from the rest of the people if we have to lead the example here? Why hasn't the CNB published all private accounts out there more than 70,000 kuna? Why? We know in... There are billions of kunas holding 14 families and not paying taxes in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have, we know that without professionalizing personnel and better salaries to public servants, this is not going to improve because no one is blackmailing them, I'm saying it like a parrot here. We're going to see the first quarter of what it's going to look like, and I expect concrete answers in the third month. We remember, for example. I gave you one Christmas present last year, so it wouldn't be in the budget again, you know, if you had that Jugopol, this game for the former heads, it was, it was best for me this one, build an object for no purpose at all. You remember KBC Zagreb there, what about that clinical hospital? Those Glinica factories, there millions of dollars cost in Obrovec, so that it doesn't happen again to get us out of that mental circuit and to improve the efficiency of the public administration and that's the key problem all because we won't even have for pensions to fill that black hole where tens of billions of dollars will actually be kuna will be needed to run the pension system. Turn your sleeves and work, all of you in your constituency have to control it and not have someone plant two plums, there these areas with special care, raise money and nothing, nobody. Here's the best example of the Oilman. So how is it possible that this administration isn't in jail right now, that these people who ran these companies aren't in jail, what kind of management where the state was re-emerged by billions and billions of kuna debts that the state has to pay now again, and that's why we don't have kindergartens or schools again, that's why a cop gets minimum wage and why there aren't people at the Police Academy, because when they see this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101646	Time. Now, Mr. Glasnović, here you go, as an independent representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101647	Dear colleagues, no organisation can function if it is military, civil without standard procedures, staff evaluation, training, filling, equipment and the most important experiences and morals. If that's the way it is in the inspection services we've been seeing for the past 20 years, it's not working very well, as it is in other segments of society. When you go from Parliament to Ban Square, you will see different kinds of people from professional beggars, of course, who use children for begging, it does not, of course, concern the attorney general with tourist guides. I listen to some tourist guides, I faint when I hear their presentations, speak English as Indians as Winnetou, worse than I speak Croatian, of course, I've left here at 6 years of age, try to fix my grammar here, lexicon, but has anyone heard today in the Parliament, is anyone interested in today's Prosinian victims, here today, we remember the Prosinian victims, on Ban Jelačić Square where dozens of these natives were killed, civilians, we know who shot at them from machine guns, surrounding buildings, and they're the first of thousands, thousands of Croatian victims of course until the end of '41. Mr. and since we've erased collective memory, no one cares. And why is that, why such a sloppy relationship to our history? It's just, look, every high school kid in Canada knows who he is... Who raised the rebellion against the English,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in Austria everyone knows who Andreas Hoffer is and who's heard about Stipe Javor, Milan Sufflay, what our young heads teach in schools again, erasing collective memory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I look at these tourist guides, I don't know if there are, how many of their courses are there, to be a tourist guide, three months, a year, every honor to individuals and some of them look like horror film refugees, or as if they've got a dressing room from an army of rescues, those charities, and they've slept under a bridge in Los Angeles somewhere scary. Birds can nest in their hair and when I see it, I faint because they represent the state. When they see them, they represent the Croatian state as we represent the Croatian state here. We don't have to be surprised because we know that Mr. Mesic here abolished this one, which doesn't have any sense of other former personnel for history, history doesn't matter to them, he's lifted the honor guard here, we've got a broken cemetery after II. World War I, of course, is the largest part of this memorial, so since you have military museums in Australia where I was recently, where you have both sides of the ice where an unknown soldier, 69,000 killed in all wars, and what we have, we have, for example. in Vienna we have more in famous Croatian war history in the last 400 years, in Vienna than in Croatia, we have no permanent stations, let alone this last war, but there is nothing about World War I. And I must commend the special police of Croatia who, of course, self-initiativeally with the help of the Ministry of Defence, went to Galicia, Ukraine and laid the crowns on the graves of the dead Croatian soldiers in World War I, here, which is an individual effort, should be working more here. If we're hanging out with our culture, I've been to the Zrinski opera recently, the famous opera, and when I watched it on stage, it's a great honor for the singers to wash, but when I watched those costumes, they've been changed since 1920. ... I mean, somewhere, moths fly around those costumes, what about costumes? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Should we come here if tourism is one of the largest branches in Split, Italian legionaries trained in... The armor, the armor, the real armor, what did the legionaries look like 1,000 years ago and some years ago, in 2000, or should we do it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a need for a sense of our glorious past. There I was on a parade down there, you were legionaries from Italy, and ours came from the Dalmatian Mountain, every honor, one had that national uniform, out there from Drnish, I don't know where, and look down, there's Nike stockings, Nike stockings, white socks. Here's a little, uh, good for individuals. And we have to fix it and we have to let the state do it, not the individual lovers of history.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101648	Zeljko Glasovic also asked for an opinion on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101649	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Today, a representative spoke of the school crisis, attacks on officials, for example, how does the state view this violence? Society pillars are a health system, an education system. How does the state protect these people? These are the most responsible jobs. It's almost a daily phenomenon, what we've heard these days at that school, it's just the tip of the iceberg. You have data that 89% of the medical staff were attacked at the workplace, 89% in Croatia. What does that say about us as a people? Croats as patients. That's scary. And where are the measures and what, these repressive measures and other measures, preventive measures that must be taken? You have peer violence in schools. I, very little of it enlists, you won't hear from the kids, a kid came to me, he's got 60 kilos, he's got 120 kilos of it, he's afraid to come to school, ah, if it was my kid, I'd come to his parent, that bully, and they'd argue long into the night. So, drugs, firewater, you have others, some are dreaming of this solvence, glue and other things, other gasoline, doing... To the judicial police, it's the most destructive of brain strokes, and you have a clear coefficient, a correlation between the low-priced intelligence and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If intelligence is low, you're more subject to these attacks on others and, you also have these cyber cowards under false names, it's made some young people suicidal in some countries where the Law of More Penalty has changed, for those cowards who hide from false profiles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where is the government's preventive strategy to solve this, this problem, where it's preventive, I don't see that preventive strategy. To be recognized here by bullyes and students, let's say in schools that are depressed, which may be life-threatening by depression, which may be the victims that God does not give suicide. It's easier to socialize a dog than a psychopath, it's proven and it needs to be identified immediately, right now, is a young drunk fool becoming an old drunk fool, and I've seen it. There's a certain point where it's hard for someone, a lifetime, where it's hard to rehabilitate someone. In Poland, they have introduced zero tolerance for such abusers, for example suspension, two suspensions do not return to school, you have fines for bullies, and for teachers who do not report violence, who are careless to their service, who neglect these signs of aggression, are also threatened with prison, that is Poland. In America, you have anti-bullying laws that have been implemented by 23 out of 50 states, and we still tap in place, and we change every year, every year we have new laws, and on the ground, what is the result on the ground? While we, we were already saying that, teachers and health officials have to get even with the cops, and that's the attack on the state, we're still waiting for that Law, and while we're waiting for this law how many people are terrified to come to the hospital at work, where he's being harassed by junkies, psychopaths and moral freaks. Parents, so he needs his parents in his pocket, not in his head, then he's gonna wake up some, is that kid representing his parents at that school, and the parent's responsible for him, and there's a lot of things we've neglected. Maybe it would be a good idea for us to recommend, you know, you have those, those for students exchange program, that some of our students who show these signs of narcissism, aggression, send them for example in... Let's see how it works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or they'd better send them somewhere in Siberia, to federal prisons to stay there for two, three months as an educational measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101650	I announce that we continue our work on Monday 10 December at 9.30 p.m. Proposal for a minimum wage law with the Final Bill, we work from Monday to Friday when there will be a final vote and we still have a debate by clubs today, a club, a club of representatives of Independents for Croatia and a respected colleague, Zeljko Glasnović, reported. Please, colleague Glasnović, that those who wish to leave the Assembly, and then you speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101651	Here is a respected colleague and colleagues, on behalf of, therefore, a club of representatives of the Independents for Croatia will now speak to the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101652	Dear colleagues, colleagues who stayed, we heard a lot of debates today about some issues, a lot of waste of time, and there's no concentration on critical, important things, one thing depends on. It all depends, of course, on the state budget. I think the lecturerate in Croatia is a lot of stories about this economic theory, the spike doesn't cook rice, and if there's not enough money in the state budget, your pension column falls and health care falls. It has already been proven, we have statistics, analysts, that the money spill is greater than the income in Croatia. as a diameter, we can compare that for the EU from 2014 to 2020 that the budget is calculated that 11 billion euros should come here and when we look at other statistics, money out of the country, much illegal, from 2001 to 2010 is $15.2 billion in that period, where does such money go? We see that local communities have improved their work and have withdrawn some of the last three years, four thousand kuna per capita. What's going on at the state level? There was Minister Horvat and he made some proposals for the budget but without trained people, standard procedures, that's what I told him and security checks, the situation will not improve. People come to me every week where we see, we have evidence that corrupt officials are blocking investigations through influence politically in courts, mostly when it comes to land books and catastras. We also see that the private sector can be more efficient than the state sector, that it delivers some services. I mentioned this earlier, let's find someone in the private sector to do this final digitization of land books, so we can move on without it, no agriculture. We need a better organization and synergy between the ministries. You have an example. CERRP, it's the Center for the restructuring and sale of companies. Of the 397 companies you have 40 state-owned companies and 1/4 insolvency almost because they haven't settled the debts. What does that say about the state as a Rules of Procedure? We're going back to the off-shore, so of course it's responsible for this CNB where we have accounts out there just say one off-shore account, 1.7 billion kuna that holds 14 families. I mentioned yesterday why no law has been passed so far to check every bank account outside the country that's more than 70,000 kuna, that didn't happen. What about the diaspora where the minimum 3 billion euros from the diaspora comes here, and people still wait 3 years for citizenship, and they say they don't pay taxes. It's the largest flossule of broken lefts because these people have, 80% of them have Croatian citizenship here, they have real estate and they send money that's not registered through the CNB, it's a minimum of 3 billion euros and these people are removed from economic, social development. China, which is a de facto yet communist country as part of Croatia has integrated its diaspora into the economic order. What about the real estate tax? Let's start with the Supreme Judges. They're gonna pass it maybe in the next cycle, we don't know. How many people in Croatia have social housing that they did not pay, which they received after those so-called so-called Refunds? There were some sitting there, they had two apartments like that, they didn't pay for anything. That means we have double standards, we have standards for some for ordinary regiments for others, for the red nobility and others, we have other standards. And until there is order in business in Croatia and precisely clear strategic objectives in fighting corruption, we will be where we were in '89. Mr. Crescent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101653	Thank you very much. We'll finish the work, and then we'll continue it as announced, at 9:30 p.m. on Monday. Thank you very much. SESSION Interrupted at 15.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101654	Let's go and have a dear colleague, Glasnović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101655	Dear fellow human rights, that human rights are once again filled with the mouth of human rights and what reality is in the Croatian state and what it used to be. Here, people come to me every week where property legal relations have been injured, land taken away has not been returned or documents have been stolen and no documents exist at all. For example. The town of Benkovac has no land books at all. Where are those land books? Of course in Belgrade. And how did they get to Belgrade? Where are the archives burned? Who burned those archives? The heirs of these characters sit here in the Parliament and act as Social Democrats and other characters. A man came to me recently, taken from a building in Zagreb, killed by an old man, killed by an old man, had six apartments in the building, had already sold an apartment outside the law, had other properties and this man was 80 years old and had to wait another 5 years to regain his property and talk about human rights. Human rights. Why is that? Here is why, because Croatia has not yet created, Croatia has no today tradition of legal and political tradition that can shape modern society, as well as today. So who sits in your courts? Young ladies and others. Gentlemen and friends, who are you sitting down with? Everyone in the former system. Of the 32 judges in the Supreme Court, nine are already from the former system. They're everywhere in the Constitutional Court. You have co-workers in Belgrade, UDBA associates, and we are now complaining about human rights. And why did our eyes close here, that's how it is. Here we go. What do we got? We've got fake Social Democrats, fakes, too bad they're not peasants, now I'm gonna read them something, this is for them, I don't see them here. And I'm really sick of reading this this morning, so here's a document. And what does the document say? A farmer who owns a house, land and cattle, a worker who receives a salary and has bread for ours is worth nothing. We must make the homeless proletarians. Only the unfortunate become communists, for which we must create misfortune, cast the masses in despair, we are the mortal enemies of all prosperity, order and peace. And it was written by your mentor, mentoring some Moshe drinkers in '42. the year in AVNOJ and the document is in the archives, the Military Historical Institute of Belgrade. And comrades and friends, and there's some people rising up here and praiseing the collectiveization of '45. A year. From the Constitution that was based on Stalin's Constitution, I said what we're playing here, the Marrakech Convention, it's not our problem, we're having a total lack of national and morally conscious personnel. Unions, what unions? In the former state, we're now talking about minimum wage. What is the minimum wage in Croatia 3 thousand and something kuna. How many unionists do they get? And in the former state, they're just a bioficus like the breast on a boar, for example. The ficus because they took orders... Communists who ran all the societies of industry and all this, state-owned companies led former communists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what do you have today, Oily, same mastodon socialist and where we are. So much for a day of human rights, I would recommend you all go home and find this document and read the original of the Mosha Pida.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101656	Mr. Željko Glasnović will present the position of the Advocacy Club for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101657	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, we're listening to the debate again today, and this way, Parliament isn't just these constituencies sitting here today. But you have people who work in the administration, they're our real heroes. You have down in the basement of the Daquitlo office, commending them, which records every spoken word in this House, every spoken word. And history will show if this is any way to bring down the smoke curtains, who's been acting at a moment's notice, of course, that's going to show up. And when the truth is told, the demons are the most savages when the truth is heard, it's seen by portals, it bothers them the most, let's talk about the truth a little bit. I handed over five points to the government, that's 5.5.17. One was a register of Croats outside the country. I am not here for you or for the left wing of the UDBA, nor for the parties, but I am here for the Croats outside the country, including Croats in BIH, who are the constituent people there. That's why I made that decision. Here, register, now it's a register for Croats outside the country, which could have been done 20 years ago, what were you waiting for? Also, the framework, the business framework for Croats, the diaspora, for investment includes the abolition of and red tape, and that is worse for mass murderers, will be terrifying to the public by the bureaucrat with the seal, the socialist bureaucrat, rather than a mass murderer with an axe. These are some of those points, of course HVO, HVO still bothers some HVO. How is that possible? I asked for the rest of the HVO, if they weren't here, you wouldn't be here today. Here, you have a register, actually the Department of Public Health, that suicide among defenders is twice as high as in the general population. Last year, 116 defenders were killed in the Republic of Croatia. Cobra and HVO, nobody, who's worried? It's a strategic question, who does it hurt to have a man set himself on fire in his car a month ago, out of despair. It of course does not worry urban racists in the Republic of Croatia, it does not hurt them, of course. Here we have from 2008 to 2016 568 killings of HVO and it bothers some people, but these 6769 people HVO + some others, they get less than 1% of the budget from the Republic of Croatia, less than 1%, it bothered some people, and it didn't mind getting pensions from people from the federal government, 12000 former partisans, thousands, thousands, thousands of intelligence officers who worked against the Croatian people, it wasn't even bothering them, but those 0.7% of the budget gets and bothers the HVO, it doesn't bother them, the Croats from BiH, they bother them, and this is just a smoke curtain, hate speech, read web portals, so. It doesn't bother some of the units in '91 had... To the Croatian army... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] 2500 members, and today they have 8,000. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you can easily check, just line up those units, you'll see, by the battlefields, by the captains, by the platoons. That, here, I hope you will speed up the government's active measures now to pay off in 2019 that people still, to hire those Croats down that didn't get rights that were wounded, and they didn't give up their request and sick and so, there won't be too many, I don't think there will be too much and we can cover it. If we pay 55,000 pensions in Serbia, we can solve that HVO for all eternity and all that. In the end, I always have to add this, I said it five times here, that there are no four choir areas of HVO, that's Bosnia Posavina, Central Bosnia, Northwest Herzegovina and Mostar, we wouldn't be sitting here today and spilling pearls because before I said it, Croatia would look like Cyprus or worse today, we'd be mujihadini down the Neretva valley, in the Neretva valley, and Kupres is an hour and a half from Split's Kupres there and we also have to remember the Croats from BiH who died in the Croatian army, but look at them, there's just, there's Mr Matić, there's how many Croats there are, he knows who's Marko Babic and who's Robert Zadro died and where is dead, on Kupres, did he know that this unique, the unique war was, which was here today, this one, this one, this one, this one, and there, and these people are going to be wrong, and they're going to be wrong, and they're, and they're going to be wrong, and they're going to be wrong, and they'red be wrong, and they're going to be wrong, and they's, and they'red, and they're going to be wrong, and they are going to be wrong, and to be wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101658	We move on to the next presentation of the position, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101659	Dear colleagues, I'm glad our last speaker mentioned the word "theological discs," the least there is here, here we are, past the subject of this year from archaeology to isology, but we haven't touched the core of the problem of all of this. I stood up primarily for the remonting of the legal system, one of the main points of my election program. I've been working on it for as long as I can. I mentioned it here every day, I cruised through law offices, I made suggestions, what happens, we'll see. It's important for all of us here to raise the operational capacity of all institutions, so that we can fight poverty, against corruption, here. Today we talked about school reform, at least we have in this reform school who mentions the moral ethical code, morals, ethics, a little bit of it in schools. Today a woman came to me, an example of one, when I was talking about morality and ethics, invested, came from South Africa, that every week people come to you here, cheated, invested 80,000, paid land, which, of course, was legal, 80,000 Swiss francs to see in the end that it was already sold land, the money collapsed, wanted to go back to South Africa. What are the roots of that? We know what the roots of it are, but it's blocked nonstop in... To the media, it all stems from the former system, the unsettled land books of the catastra. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] True, when you tell the truth in Parliament, it becomes heresy, facts, today we've heard a lot of arguments without any facts, I'm saying here... At least two choices, here, that doesn't interest people, that's not interested in cultural Marxists, moral levatelists, Masons, militant atheists and Bolshevik Satanists in the Parliament and other political institutions, that's not what they're interested in, the lie itself, the deception and the destructive criticism. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] God is true, and to them God is like a fork of teeth, he does not believe in God. You have candles, for example. If today is Advent, here we are near Christmas, that second largest holiday of the Croat Christians, I brought here, and I brought some and the peasants, here is the statue of St. Nicole. He was a true saint, of course, the patron saint of the Parliament is St. Joseph, few people know, there should be his statue, and we don't have his statue here. St. Nikola existed, there was a bishop there in present Turkey in the fourth century, tortured and murdered. When his relic came St. Nicole's relic came to Moscow, came from Barry, came from eight million Christians, Russians to watch that relic. And those Croats don't. They go to church even though they don't believe in God, just to... There's a connection, they're fake Christians, fake peasants, fake Social Democrats, all deception and fraud, they don't trust themselves, but they have good jokes, sometimes, here, that's it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the bishop was an exorcist, he had the power to say when he saw that the demon was in someone, he could have said shut up and come out, I don't have that power, I'm not the bishop, so let the Social Democrats and the Democrats lie to you and make it St. Nikola's role model, he fed the hungry, fought corruption, saved people from death, for example. If he were born today, if he were 45, they'd kill him for sure, of course, we know it all, and since you know, you have that saying, "The dead shirt doesn't have pockets." If you've stolen money, it's not too late, return money, give some poor family, and you here lords, the red nobility and others, give at least 10% salary to someone, neighbors if there's no money, if there's no money, go to the street, find someone and there's also someone for you, there's no saving for you, it's never too late for conversion, God exists, he loves you even though you don't admit it, you don't love him because you're militant atheists, you're the main saints of Milka Mountain, and it's not the holy trinity of the Mountains and who, Stane Dolenc, had this kind of head, he just ate like some other heads. And in the end, I would say to warn you to come to Ban Jelačić Square on Saturday against violence and protesting teachers, about which no one spoke much today where teachers are under the terror of these spoiled brats, that you have a protest of teachers, the Ban Square, this Saturday and come home and look for the saint of St. Nicola, pray to him and he will enlighten you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101660	I thank my esteemed colleague Glasnović. I thought you were going to St. Leave Nikola as a protocol gift in HS Thank you very much... and put it there in the place where this... [[/Intruder: I give you St. Nikola...]] Thank you very much. It will stand in the window where the protocol gifts are, thank you well-respected colleague Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101661	Next on behalf of the independents for Croatia, Croatia's respected representative, Hrvoje Zekanovic, will speak. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101662	So, as many of you have heard, a few days ago at the Bajakovo border crossing and Batrovci is about the Serbian part of the Bajakovo border crossing, our citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Nikola Kajkic, was arrested not only him, but Mrs Zorica Greguric, who was also arrested, was also with him. They are not arrested for committing some kind of crime, for breaking some law of the Republic of Serbia in which they were staying, but for being investigated by the Serbian secret service. For 5 hours specifically, Mr. Kaikic was under investigation, questioning Serbian intelligence officers from the BIA agency, from a Security Information Agency that is directly under the supervision of the president of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, in Croatia today we have silence on this issue, no one is saying anything. We have not heard the Prime Minister say one word, unfortunately neither Minister Bozinovic was manifested, Croatian secret services remain silent, the DORH is silent, and a Croatian citizen, who has all rights as well as any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, has been questioned for 5 hours under one unremembered torture, for no reason. But let's try to get in here. What's this all about? Mr. Kajkic is known as the person involved in the investigation of war crimes in Ovcara, and he was in Serbia and he was on the issue, so there with Mrs. Natasa Kandic, he exchanged some information, or some knowledge of his own, and got some new knowledge from her. What many do not know, that today 1,000 Croatian citizens who unfortunately were in Serbian concentration camps, today via Serbian lawyers, are suing the Republic of Serbia to receive compensation for torture and time spent in concentration camps. In Croatia, this is not the case, in Croatia everyone is making a fool, primarily the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So wouldn't it make sense that the Prime Minister, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is doing something about this, that the Prime Minister tells his colleague Vukic, who is with his Serbian Progressive Party, part of the EPP, part of the European People's Party, and says to a respected colleague, Vucic, we think it's high time that they pay off all those who, all my countrymen and all those who spent months in your concentration camps in your country. However, we have silence as well as a number of other questions. From this place, I have already repeatedly said that we have the ideal opportunity to force Serbia to place these key issues, which we have with Serbia, as a matter of missing, killed, the issue of the border, and ultimately put the issue of war damage into the public's focus. Unfortunately, we don't have anything. Unfortunately, Serbia is mocked with us, Serbian secret services are easily searched, tortured, chicanated by Croatian citizens. Who's next? Who's next to risk going to Serbia? Maybe after this speech, tomorrow if I go to that country, they'll bring me in, too, and they'll ask me, who's funding you? And knowing that on the other hand, no one will stand up for me either, as it did not stand up for Mr. Kaikic. Neither did Mrs. Greguric, I must stress. So once again, I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take advantage of this opportunity and to address these problems in a situation where Serbia enters the European Union, and when there is the possibility of conditions for Serbia to enter the European Union. Not that we have the shagging, closure, detention and harassment of Croatian citizens, and no reaction from the Croatian Authority, Croatian institutions. I will repeat, I call on Minister Bozinovic, I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to be urgently visible on this issue because simply, Croatian citizens must be sure that the Croatian state takes care of them and when they are not in the territory of Croatia, and in this case, there was no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101663	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101664	We're going to another debate now. But before that, I'd like to welcome the professors and students of law school who are here with us. Welcome. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Zekanovic, as an independent representative. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101665	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. I express my position here but I state the position of HRAST and the Croatian conservative party. As for the Marrakech Agreement, yesterday we marked 27 years of one of the greatest tragedies of the Croatian people when thousands of Croats and Croats laid down their lives for us to have a sovereign state. After 27 years, we first brought in one document called the Istanbul Convention, which is exactly contrary to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and now here it is a few months later we will bring in another document, we call it Marrakechi Agreement, more specifically a treaty called the global compact, for safe regular and orderly migration. So we have 2 documents and one document and another document, I'm going to repeat the opposites, with what the modernity of each state means. When we talk about Marrakech's agreement, here's a clean, couple of data, a couple of facts, to get a little public knowledge of this controversial document. It's a document with 34 pages. And it's divided into 23 goals. Most of it looks nice, most of it's true, it's about migration, about the state's modernity, about preventing migration. However, you have one chapter that is very interesting, chapter No. 5. says to improve the availability and flexibility of the roads of regular migration. The first thing I'm going to ask, all those who intend to sign this agreement, is, which means regular. I've got illegal and legal. For our diameter, Plenkovic, the situation we have today, at the border of Croatia, with the BIH when migrants enter Croatia, whether it is regular migration or not. So we don't know that. So we have illegal and illegal migration. And regular, I don't even know what they're talking about. Next, we had a translation problem here. So 46 places are mentioned in the document... Which would mean, look at the Google Translator, we're committed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 46 times in this document we make a commitment. And the Prime Minister tells us that this document is not binding. Well then, that's interesting, as he made from Istanbul an interpretative statement, it also gives here. Well, he says it's not a good translation. Our diameter speaks a lot of languages, so it translates well, it translates it, we are dedicated or we are determined. But if you look at any English language, first it says we're bound, so this document is binding. Furthermore, this document speaks exclusively of the advantages and challenges of migration. Well, I think if you're talking about advantages, we should talk about shortcomings at the same time. Furthermore, here it is said that, so all the states that commit to this document will have to take care, which is what the media, which is partly financed from the state budget, are talking about migration, that it would not happen, that someone has a negative or poor view of migration. This reminds me a little bit of the period before '91. Mr. and we called it the communist period, when we had a colleague a little quieter, please. President of the Parliament. [[Break president: colleague Zekanovic, thank you for your warning.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when the diameter speaks here, then tell him behind his back, you're distracting me. I asked because it really bothers me. [[Come on, please don't have a session, speak nicely, and no one will bother you. Don't give me lessons, please.]] So here we're talking about having to have apriori, a positive attitude about migration. It means a positive attitude towards migration. Why don't someone have a negative attitude about migration, isn't that legitimate? On the third hand, here we are saying that all countries have equal responsibility, but also equal benefit from migration. I think responsibility for migration, Croatia is gone, Croatia has not been a colonial power, Croatia has not intervened militaryly in the Middle East in North Africa, unlike many European countries do. In fact, the responsibility in Croatia and in this great wave of migration that is happening does not actually lie. And finally, this is a document that will be passed that nothing radical will happen in 5 seconds. However, it can really be a trigger, for a new, big wave of migration, for which we are not ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101666	The next club will be the MOST of independent lists, in the name of which Sonja Cikotic, a respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101667	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Today, MOST is an independent list, our representatives at the Club, came out in shirts, to remind us that 2.7 billion kunas this government has failed to withdraw from EU funds, not on the basis of some other plan, but on the basis of their own plan. We know in the Most Club, the importance of EU funds, we are aware of the complexity and complexity of the system itself and the procedures. However, through this topic, we now want to open up to the professional public and citizens, meaning to interest citizens, to actually realize that the EU funds are no mystification, they do not have to be complex and complicated, they can be simple. Unfortunately, however, this government has failed to do so. For the Republic of Croatia, €10.7 billion is available from 2014 to 2020, and we also need to secure our own contribution of €2 billion. During the period from 2014 to 2020, we will also pay membership fees, about 500 million kuna, each year. If we add this to our national contribution of EUR 2 billion, we see that the Republic of Croatia participates significantly in the singles on the issues of EU funds. This government had failed to withdraw EU funds worth 2.7 billion kuna, but it was not some imaginary money, it was meant for playgrounds, for scholarships, for waste management plants, it was intended for water supply projects, it was intended for roads and railways, it was intended for the economy to actually have higher growth rates, to boost employment, and perhaps for young people to give up leaving this country. But if we're only looking at numbers, I have to say that the Republic of Croatia is recording devastating data. 52% of the funds available from the European Union are allocated, but if we look at the funds paid to users, they relate to 13% of the funds. The Republic of Hungary, which is the first in this, has so far allocated 105% of the funds, so they went beyond that because they are aware that through the process of project implementation, project cancellation, and savings that occur through public procurement procedures, there is a reduction in these funds, and they want to use exactly the whole envelope. How will this government ensure that, over a period of two years, we contract as much funds as it is minimally necessary for what we have negotiated over a period of 5 years. We testify that for the 2007/2013 programme. We already have 300 million kuna losses. This government has not yet closed the programme 2007/'13. for an operational transport program, she didn't close it. There were 236m euros available, all agreed because they staged projects. A phased project means unused funds during this period already transferred for a new period. 40m euros at this point, we will lose 300m kunas that should be focused on the transport link between the Republic of Croatia, will not come to the Republic of Croatia. And no one's talking about it. We have the defeating data of the Office of State Administration, for the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion up to 30.6.7. The contract, i.e. assigned to the users of Croatian roads or Croatian railways, is 913m euros. Do you know how long it's been until 30.6.2017, how many users have justified it? How many bills did they deliver? 56 million euros. They did not justify the advances they received because they received 67m euros. So we're talking about the data available to us because this House doesn't come in so often reports on the use of EU funds, so they don't come every 6 months. We also have a Norwegian gift of 103.4m euros and the first tenders thus assure us which should be available by 2020 will be announced only at the end of 2019. These funds have one of the goals of curbing poverty. What MOST of Independent Lists suggests is that this government implements a structural reform of public administration, implement digitalisation of procedures, network public registers and actually secure a large amount of design to welcome this period ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101668	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101669	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101670	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers, esteemed MPs and MPs. Today is 16.11. It is time to remember again the days ahead of us, the days of suffering, the days of memories of the victims, the victims of Vukovar, the victims of Shkabrnje. The HS itself has just declared the victim Vukovar a day of memory. And just from this pay phone it's good to talk about what happened there, it's good to participate in what happened there because the pietate's place won't become any place by any document, by any decision, but it will become precisely the attention and compassion of the people who come, visit those places, who are compassionate of the victims and who will, in the next days, according to their opportunities, be both in Vukovar on the day of their death. It is also possible that anyone who does not arrive that Sunday will be in Vukovar or Skabrnja. We also have casualties in Borov, the death of the Brodocomerca victims, and then in Veleport on Tuesday. Therefore, these days that are ahead of us certainly need to inspire those of our gratitude to all those who gave their sacrifice for exactly the place we live, the country we live in, to finally tell this country whose country we are representatives and the people we represent here. These victims are not small, 1,600-700 people as far as they were killed and are led by the missing in Vukovar, Skabrnj, which 80 people can certainly appear somewhere in some contexts, some wars may be few, but those who live in this area are many and just gestures of arrival on programs to which you will neither receive an invitation nor be at all in future time than this call that has been opened to all who come to those places only by number we show by our respect for the victim that we will remember how the Croatian state came into existence, that it was created right on the victim, that the victim who tried to avoid where a peaceful solution was sought to create a Croatian state, Croatian independence, however, are numerous in the territory of Croatia, and also in other parts of the former Yugoslavia were opposed. Well, it was us and the international community and all of us who fought at the time that we volunteered to feel that at one point something had broken, it was broken, unfortunately, at the moment when the victim became obvious, when the victim of many people, when the victim could no longer be hidden, when it was impossible to hide the killing of the body of the massacred people on the streets that went out and showed what was the Serb aggressor, which is the Yugoslav so-called. JNA has done to people both in Vukovar and in Skabrnja and in many other places where, since the end of August, victims of smaller, bigger but we see that they continue and unfortunately this, this part of the year is always the place of suffering, the compassions of many who have fought with these people for this Croatia, whose family members, friends, and therefore I will once again wish from this booth that the greater number of people gathered together in the places of suffering to be dignified and perhaps some of our daily concerns or problems we leave aside and to devote ourselves to the memory of what is actually the basis of this country and for that reason we can just say let the living Croatia created for us by those who primarily gave their lives for its freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101671	I thank my esteemed colleague Paninic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101672	Let's move on. It is now up to the club of representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague of Panenic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101673	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we had the opportunity to participate in a magnificent, magnificently dignified memory column in the city of Vukovar and it was an honor to be there with people who suffered during the war, suffered precisely for this Republic and in which we today should represent what is best. It was an honor to participate with them if they represent what is best, they were best then, they were Croatia's chosen team, they were the ones who fought for what we are stressing today. You know what the only problem was? The problem was to look at the number on their backs. On their backs, number 23 stands Chapter 23, for which they cry. Are we really going to let them fight for this Croatia alone, to stay with their pains, not to allow them to fight in Serbia for their rights, right to justice, right to compensation, for everything they have suffered, not only in Vukovar, but also through numerous camps, we will really allow those who represented the authorities yesterday, to walk in that same column, to be only well-paid actors, those who shed tears when a statement should be made, and on the other hand, it was embarrassing to observe yesterday at a checkout station in County that this column leaving the official made chaos. Imagine what it was like for those people who came to Vukovar early in the morning, walked all day in a column, went home, went to their families, got ready for work, and then someone stopped them from going. It was a shame to see that there were miles of columns, I was coming to this particular session for an hour standing there to follow how under rotations only those who seemed to be more responsible among all those who had given their pain yesterday were just marking their deaths. Who's responsible for that? Who left just one passing place? And that closes when there's a rotation. Who closed the roads, and even those returning from BiH, perhaps to Slovenia, Austria or I don't know where to prevent them from, in their jobs. Imagine what it was like to look at everyone who was walking, sitting in their cars, busses, and telling you again those politicians, I was ashamed, ashamed of being a politician there, that I was sitting in that car, but I'm glad I could be here to testify to you, to tell you what you did, who was responsible, the director of HAC, the minister of traffic, or maybe, we'll say again, some commission, that Committee that doesn't meet even though there's a government decision. Well, it's not just the foreign minister and the minister of finance and internal affairs and defenders and defenses and advisers, the president and the president, who in this committee will now determine what happened yesterday, is it so important to miss only those who would have come the fastest way to Zagreb anyway, and everyone else can wait, let them wait, if they have learned to appear to suffer, and with this power, this kind of treatment, will wait for the defenders to look very long, for the satisfaction to get, for Chapter 23 to be as real as it should be, and also that on our roads, columns, there is a government of equality, and not those chosen by the people to be placed above the people. It was terrible, it was terrible, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101674	Thank you, the committee rapporteur wishes to take the floor, legislation, finances, the state budget if we are not going to open the debate to deliver the position of the club of representatives. On behalf of the Club of Representatives MOSTA Independent Lists is a colleague of Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101675	Dear colleagues and colleagues today I will use this term for free speech to congratulate my children on the International Day of the Child. Well, happy International Children's Day. What I want to further point out is the demographic situation in Croatia we have the fact that it has never been less born means of children than in the last 100 years. If there are no children in which way we will have the sustainability of the pension column, in which way we will have a quality available healthcare service, in which way we will have economic activity, who will provide investment cycles, where we will find these people if we know that 180 people leave the Republic today. The Children's Supplement Act was one of the measures of the government, which was supposed to extend the circle of children's extras to 150,000 but that didn't happen, only 32,000 children received a child's allowance. It was also necessary to extend the number of meanings of those families that receive child benefit in terms of social transfer from 200 to 300 kuna to 50% but this did not happen 14% is just families more that receive children's allowance. But you know what happened back in April 2018 was the launch of the recruitment procedures of 20 new officials who would count children, write endless solutions to more dense feathers, and that is interesting in each parish 9 by one new clerk. The MOST warned then and through amendments and through a public debate means in a assembly that those measures would not bear fruit. He warned that there was a need to expand the circle of donors based on 100%, and we also pointed out that actually the right to a child's allowance should be tied to an average salary, not a lifeless base of tax that hasn't changed in over 17 years. We have offered amendments that you have refused and that is to expand the circle of those who receive a child's allowance that means per household member have 3326 kuna because the cost of living is growing. We also suggested that those family members, those children who live in families, who have 534 kuna and 14 limes per household member, have a children's allowance of 500 kuna. You suggested 300 kuna, you refused the amendment, so the money has. These measures you've proposed haven't given birth to a demographic recovery, and there's money. You turned down our amendments because there's no money. We need an urgent family policy that will have demographic measures, housing measures and that will guarantee women certain rights in work and in demographic renewal. Therefore, MOST referred to a public consultation of the Law on maternity and parental benefits in a way that strengthens women’s economic rights. In a way that every mother in the first year of life or father who is with a child has a minimum guaranteed 3991 kuna, to allow full pay for those who have more than that. To ensure that women who work and every other child, means above that third child or twin, in the second and third year of the child, that if they return to their workplace, they can use an extra of 2328 kuna with their salary to facilitate family life. Also, with these legal changes, we predicted that both grandparents could use a parenting leave of six months. Children under the age of 3 and regardless of their retirement, can receive 2328 kuna while taking care of that child. All of this and leading up to what you're proposing, the law when you've been deluding birth benefits for the first six months. And increased to $3991 that other part cost 300 million. We've calculated this, it costs $400 million. That is, if we compare it to last year's RH budget of 129 billion kuna, 0.31% of how much that actually affects the state budget. This is extremely important to empower a woman in our society, to allow her not to choose whether to have a career or to be a mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101676	Thank you, colleague Sonja Chikotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101677	The next Advocacy Club is the independent for Croatia, excuse me, MOST's independent list on behalf of which the respected representative Slaven Dobrović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101678	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, academic Rainer. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, but there's not a single colleague, but it doesn't matter. I will use my free exposure on behalf of the MoST Club of Independent Lists for the topic of waste management. So, RH anno domini 2018, end, waste management where we are now. We should definitely be in transition to the circular waste economy. This would mean a release from the linear model take, consume and throw, into a circular economy where it seeks to achieve the maximum recovery of waste material into the economy. So it's due because of a lot of things, so we've had marked bad conditions in the environment, and it's definitely not an accident, of course, here's too short a time to elaborate it. After all, we are part of a civilised community of the European Union, which has a long-term policy towards waste in this way, and that is precisely why we were obliged to change our legislative framework in the accession process, and to set targets, so by 2020 it is 50% recycling. Such provisions also exist in the access contract. However, what have we done, where are we now? The seventh action programme for the environment of the European Union, which is now apostrophealing waste as a very important resource, therefore waste goes into resource and these 50% is not the end, so this is the beginning and today it is already talking about the percentages of 70, 75, 80%, hence the mandatory return of waste material to the economic system. What were the preconditions for Croatia to move in this direction? Of course, some units of local self-government were on their own in this direction, not waiting for the state, however, in the first row to find the money for the ecological infrastructure, the Waste Management Plan was to be adopted, therefore, which was adopted in early 2017. This is particularly mentioned here, therefore, in early 2017, only a little less than 3 months after the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic was formed, where I am the minister responsible for this Plan, so not after a year and a half of the day that we could hear here some day from the president of the HDZ Club, so where he obviously tries to define me as the person who might be responsible for what is likely to follow us because of the already chronic inactivity in this area, therefore, the penalty. So, the prerequisite was the plan, it was adopted in early 2017, what were the further steps? Further steps are Public calls for financing environmental infrastructure. We started in February with Calls, i.e. it was either January, February, so, recycling courtyards, in preparation were sorteries, composts, vessels, vehicles, Centres for reuse. Why, when the minister came after my shift in April 2017, he didn't go on with it, so he really needs to be asked. He should be asked because the consequences of inaction are very serious in this regard. It is clear that without too much infrastructure, it is difficult to move cities, it is difficult to make them or expect them to have serious shifts. However, obviously not enough seems to be done in this direction, these cities are also bringing in plans that do not contain these units, which is especially true in some major cities. The centers we've had opportunities to listen to here, such as the Marines, are still being approached as strategic elements that will be of key content here. So it's the wrong way, and I'm appealing to start calling the public as soon as possible for this ecological infrastructure, as it was prepared a year and a half ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101679	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101680	3rd debate The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101681	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, only in the RH base station or Athens pillars are placed without a building permit, according to the rule on simple buildings, why the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning does not want to react in cases of illegally installed base stations and... by acting, it enables teleoperators to acquire illegal profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The biggest profit in the area of Europe, of all countries, is that teleopers have the Republic of Croatia, 40%, while at the level of Europe is 20% profit, which means that it is directly suitable for teleopers to make huge profits. Teleoperators act in the Republic of Croatia, break spatial plans, set up base stations without spatial plans, do not pay for the right of service, teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia, treat the Republic of Croatia, and these are made possible by Croatian authorities, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Transport, because they act in a way that they do not respect the law, nor do they ask for the law, because they obviously have their lobbys within these ministries. To whom are bad laws that we are at the bottom of the development of a digital society, at the top of corruption, operators are allowed to extract enormous profits from Croatia, force only base stations and optical networks and set up base stations as cheap as they can and should not be placed in their home countries. Why is it that teleopers, I've been asking a question for years, years and before I was a parliamentary representative, a few days ago I asked here and I crossed the question, didn't give an answer, so why don't teleops behave like in countries where they come from? As the Government of the Republic of Croatia responds to the European Commission's evaluations of the report on the digital society and the economy, Croatia could focus on improving all poor results in the field of connectivity, so that it can achieve the objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe, it would be useful to speed up the introduction of approved access and mediation networks financed by EU funds. In particular, this latter seems to be blocked to state level and Croatia risks losing these funds, risk losing funds exclusively that teleopers can set illegal base stations. Croatia has the most expensive Internet in the EU. Which is what we're at the bottom of at quality and speed. We have in Croatia the biggest and huge profits of the operator. 160 grand... The citizens of the teleoperator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first RH was the first to peak after tumour growth, WHO in 2013, so it concluded, that possible cause, the tumor disease, was quite radiation. And in Croatia, base stations, kindergartens, hospitals, inhabited places, health homes are placed, and no one asks them anything. Even the diameter isn't responding. The Department of Construction and Maritime Affairs is not responding. The question is, does anyone listen to these citizens, which is why billions of kunas are getting away with it? Which makes it convenient for teleopers, they clearly have their lobbyists. Today the Republic of Croatia is at the bottom, and for this reason is at the bottom, about enrolment, about children who can use the possibility of kindergarten, 50%, half of children in the Republic of Croatia. And if this money were taken, these children, to be charged as in the States, and to have teleopers behave in accordance with their own countries, believe me, that these children would have the opportunity, like in Germany, like in Sweden, to have the opportunity to be in kindergarten. The Croatian state is not the same for everyone, colleagues and colleagues, the time I gave the legal initiatives of two, which would solve the problem of building permits and the rights of service. In the Republic of Croatia, the teleoperator does not pay the right service or the right path, as it pays in Germany and in another country. It is time for the Law and Constitution in the Republic of Croatia to be equal and interesting The lobby that robbed the Republic of Croatia to say you won't. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101682	The next presentation of the position of club representatives is a colleague of Ines Strenja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosto, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101683	Thank you. This morning before arriving at the Assembly, the Association for Self-representation submitted its demands to all MPs who wanted to point out the problem of fostering people with disabilities, which is why they disagree deeply. So, they don't agree with this law that we're discussing here today, but I'm obliged to read you because that's what we're supposed to be, and that's to be the voice of those who chose us. So, they believe that although officially published data from the Ministry of Demography, youth and social policy have more families who provide foster care to adults than those who are involved in fostering children. The problem of fostering adults is insufficiently known and thinks that the current way to foster an adult with disabilities is an inappropriate and inefficient form of care for those persons. These persons should have an inclusion in the community and support for all those who can live in the community, but not foster other families. And they listed three reasons, shame and injustice. It also means that according to the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the family is under special protection of the state. They believe that a person with disabilities has the right to live in a family, that most often these families are persons with disabilities in poverty, most often cannot achieve an approximate means that could allow them to care for their members with dignity, and then we single out and pay someone else's family to take care of that person with disabilities. So, instead of caring and supporting the family community that would be based on a series of individualized and tailored services, this Law today means providing public funds to all other actors who are completely outside the circle of the family and community of persons with disabilities, therefore, the foster parent. It should be pointed out that there is no family legal relationship or relationship between foster parents in this situation. The only link is the relationship between the foster parents and the foster parents who have established the relationship between the users and social care providers, social services, and we separate someone who still has family ties from that family. Therefore, more quality support is needed in the community and family, the family of people with disabilities themselves, in order to subsidise the separation of the natural circle of support in the family and encourage us to encourage this departure of persons with disabilities from the community, and all for the purpose of establishing inadequate, inadequate and expensive social services. So the modern way to live a person with disabilities is to live in a community, to include, to the extent possible, a complete inclusion. So, the proposed laws, they believe that no civilised and democratic country should support, that is their position because they do not know, therefore, the notion of fostering people with disabilities, but the life of people with disabilities in the community. So, they say they are thus sentenced to life exclusion and marginalization, and they should actually have flexible, available support services in our families. It is therefore necessary to find a form and a way to care for all persons with disabilities as long as possible, stay within their families and be involved in the community. And what is particularly important, is that the Ombudsman for disabled persons has repeatedly pointed to this, remarks and the Law in collaboration with the Study Centre of Social Work, and the Faculty of Educational Rehabilitation at the University of Zagreb, in order to establish indications for the existence of serious abuses and violations of human rights of persons with disabilities located in foster families. The main findings of this study are also presented in the annual report by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities in HS, but also in the book published last year, it was also a presentation, respecting the rights of persons with disabilities located in foster families and family homes. They also stressed that the Republic of Croatia is the third country in the world to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Additional Protocol, respectively. The 19th Convention guarantees the right to an independent life and involvement in the community for all persons with disabilities. So I think that these people should have been supported, I think that their voice here today should have been heard, and that is why I suggest that we approach in a special way to address the foster care of people with disabilities who could be in their family if the community were to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101684	Thank you, colleagues of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101685	The next Club of Representatives will be the single MOST of Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101686	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, as well as my colleague Sincic, are not clear to us why some amendments have been declared against business. One of these is most important although the government would not accept it, and I will now use it here and read it and that is essentially the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia. As early as 2002, the European Council in Barcelona set the goal of covering at least 33% in all European Union countries, and in kindergartens, as a percentage of all children, and that this objective is renewed by the EU 2020 strategy. Croatia has only 20% of children covered by mangers and 50% of 7 children who go to kindergarten. If this trend continues, the goal set by the European Council of Croatia will certainly not reach. In the Republic of Croatia, more than 160 cities in their areas do not have kindergartens or mangers. Hundreds of cities don't have a preschool program that's actually mandatory for all children. In a large unit of local administrations, not a third of children go to kindergartens. In poorer municipalities in kindergarten there are significantly fewer children than in cities. The comparisons work in Brodo-Posavina County, the kindergarten attends less than one-fifth of children about 18%, in four counties of Vukovar-Srijem, Požega-Slavonska, Brod-Posavina and Virovitica-Podravska, less than a dozen children go to the manger and less than a third in kindergarten. All of this has shown, that, all of this has shown that they've done research. It is thus defined by the Regional Development Act and by other specific regulations in the Dalmatian Zagora, the People of the Areas covered by the assisted and mountainous areas. In order to co-finance Jaslic and kindergarten programmes in rural areas, it is necessary to ensure in the state budget 240 million kuna and thus reach these undeveloped areas of mountain-mounted mountain-mounted standards. Serious demographic measures include measures that serve the sole purpose of facilitating parents in their parental obligations already invest in the quality of school but also preschool education to a full extent. We must not view kindergartens as childcare institutions only but as educational-educated institutions that prepare children through preschool programmes for the challenges of the adult world. From socialization, teamwork, basic skills needed for school benches and others, these are all programs that take place in kindergartens. The more children are covered by this programme, the more attention is paid to the quality of preschool education, the more ready and adapted future generations will be to the challenges that life will put ahead of them from education until further notice. Otherwise, research has shown that children who do not have preschool education, aged 3 to 6, are much harder and achieve higher education in a much smaller percentage. And now that I see this budget of ours, our amendments to mountain-mounted areas and assisted areas, it is evident that this demographic measure does not correspond to the government, to meet the standards that the European Council in Barcelona in 2002 brought, while in other countries it was resolved in this way, Germany, Austria, that the central state of its region, undeveloped regions, co-financed for kindergartens. After we have the largest number of municipalities, the largest number of cities, the largest number of counties, more than China and the United States, we have lost our ability to finance that commitment that we took and these are kindergartens in those areas. Let's ask ourselves what about public administration reform, what about bureaucracy. We have more municipalities than the whole of Western Europe and we don't have secure kindergartens, only 57% and the mangers only 30% of children have that option. And we have an obligation until 2020 to achieve what is today in Zagreb, only in Zagreb, 90% while some richer municipalities provide their children and a free kindergarten. So the children are in an unequal position and the Constitution must not be above anyone and, above all, it must not be inequitable to children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101687	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101688	Now it's the Advocacy Lists and Honorable Miro Bulj's Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101689	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that the Living Wall and my colleague Sincic recognized the importance of this topic and that we join together in the fight to ensure that the telecom operators in the Republic of Croatia are above the law. I also sent two legislative initiatives, the Construction Act, where the base stations in the Republic of Croatia would have a building permit, as they have throughout Europe. That's what a zero point we have to start from. I have sent amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, where I also ask for the right of service to be paid in the Republic of Croatia as in other EU countries. I also asked the prime minister here, he has years of experience, and before I became a parliamentary representative, I was an activist where, in many places in kindergartens, hospitals, schools, institutions, in populated places, densely populated without building permits, without the consent of neighbors, they set up base stations, and thus without building permits, without investment in infrastructure, HT draws huge profits, so in the Republic of Croatia, telepliers have the highest profit and therefore praise, they have 42% of the margin or profit, while in other countries Europe and the EU have 20% of the maximum profit, which means that huge capital is derived from the Republic and that profit is directed for infrastructure in other countries. We all know that the privatisation of HT sold and the infrastructure, the cable sewerage financed by the citizens, included several thousand German marks, which our people paid for at the time, our citizens, that is also a question of national security. The EU has now, after the robbery, provided funds for the construction of an optical network owned by Croatian companies. The government's blocking this project, why? In order to preserve the HT monopoly, the Republic of Croatia will continue to remain a colony for which enormous profits will be drawn. It's a betrayal of national interests. In its report, the European Commission objected that HT controls more than 71% of the fixed network market and thus will not contribute to the extension of the competition in the Republic of Croatia. In the meantime, the last few days we've heard, we see that HACOM has allowed HT to acquire ownership of Earth television, EVO TV. HACOM initially refused to extend its license to Croatian companies in June so that five months later, a foreign private company, HT, could buy cheaply artificial property, state property. And EVO's TV is profitable, it's had a yearly 20 percent increase in subscribers, and this way it's going to drown in MAX TV. HT will thus kill a successful Croatian company with the help of HACOM further deepen its monopoly and its profits. The Republic of Croatia has HAKOM as a regulatory agency, obviously serves only to regulate HT's monopoly position and enable it to get out of the Republic of Croatia as easily as possible. The only way to do this is to collect the right path for the use of public goods to local self-government units and all those who own land as public goods owned by the state. In my legal initiative I gave, I suggested that the telephony operator pay the right of service or the right to travel. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have given two legislative initiatives, have been standing for months, no one wants to give them, with which to decide that, as in other EU countries, telecoms pay the right of services where they draw billions and pay, that they must have building permits. It's time to tell our government that it pleases telecommunications operators, you will not, above all, national interest and Croatian citizens, and it is time [[Intruder: Thank you]] that Europeans also ask the EU why the Republic of Croatia has been humiliated. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101690	Mr. Bull in front of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101691	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for 5.6 years I have been talking about the same subject as the parliamentary representative since I was in the Parliament, it means the problem of the Republic of Croatia which is of both national interest and national importance, it is a teleoperator problem. I was just looking for a break here to inform you that I am together with the Croatian Association on the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, organized a round table which will be here in the Assembly on Thursday at 10 o'clock and at this time we call you all together, you are invited so that there will be mutual communication, I invited all the competent ministries, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Health, called the Ministry of Transport, I called HACOM, the associations dealing with this problem because it is one of the major problems in the Republic of Croatia. It is only because it would not be a one-way communication and we see that this is a huge problem not only in Zagreb but in the entire area of Croatia where teleopers systematically violate the laws of the Republic, which without using permits put base stations on kindergartens, hospitals, schools, simply endanger our space and environmental problem and, of course, the biggest problem is electromagnetic radiation at the end of these institutions. I have invited experts who are dealing with this, so I would like you to participate in this round table because it is time for Croatia to start acting as one serious country, as other countries do. I expect your arrival only because of what is one of the key issues. Currently in the Republic of Croatia we have more than 600 hotspots, i.e. where people protest the establishment of base stations, as I said, at hospitals, schools, kindergartens and numerous other institutions, and we also have a violation of the law where base stations were forced so that the MP police sent to people who opposed the establishment of base stations. What does it matter if you come to that round table? Because each of you, each citizen, can have a base station at the window of your children's bedroom overnight. This is why we need to be unique here, and we need to be in mutual communication, and I have invited teleopers, competent institutions, to arrange our country in this area, such as the legislation in Germany, Sweden, to write to a number of ambassadors, e.g. Sweden, where the Swedish teleoperators are setting up a base station illegally in the middle of the settlement Radosic, where after 5 years of detention, the construction inspection said the base station should be removed, the base station is not compromised. Here one of the key problems of national security, which is why, we have a problem, which is what our system controls, means they control foreign companies in foreign ownership, so that the communication of examples between the diameter and the president, is controlled through a foreign teleoperate system. We have money in the EU funds, which is why we are blocking that we are building our digital network, which is issues that we have to ask the relevant ministries, which I have encouraged this roundtable, because I asked here and the diameter of which is suitable for foreign teleoperators who have the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia, which is why HT has a monopoly and I haven't received the answer today, that the question as a parliamentary representative from these benches, and that is, of course, to them, it's funny and that this doesn't matter, because they're also set here to work in the interest of foreign interest groups like teleoperatives. But you fellow MPs, this is not a party issue, we have a HUZES association where there are people from the SDP where there are HDZ people and most of all they call me HDZ mayors on the problem of local self-government base stations, so I expect people from HDZ to come. Parliamentarians and that this problem will finally be regulated, not under the table, by foreign interests, where the biggest profits in Europe have teleopers in the Republic, on the whole continent, 40% of the margin, while in other countries is on average 20%, I expect you to come to the round table, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101692	In front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101693	Thank you very much, chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here we are all day discussing the Inspectorate, the Parliament will make decisions. However, the fact is that the Parliament is making a number of decisions. They have some that are bad, and there's one that I'm personally proud of, it was the law on the integrity of the credit agreement with international features. It's so-called. The law proposed by our colleague Schibol. These savings credit cooperatives were in an illegal, zero way, robbing citizens of the Republic of Croatia and alienating property, not paying taxes, our institutions were not responding, neither CNB nor HANFA, no one was responding and people were brought into one bad position, they were left without their property, they were simply unable to repay interest, let alone the principal as much interest. So these were loans illegal, they were unfair with other activities, i.e. other persons engaged in this activity are savings to credit cooperatives. What's going on, though? This Parliament then voted unanimously for the Law, 134 parliamentary representatives both on the left and on the right and central. However, the judge in Rijeka is sending a question, a preliminary question to the European Commission, Mrs Rodin, Daniela Rodin, which sends the previous question, and it is in a typical conflict of interest that she sleeps in a house that is mortgaged by these pests, these criminal organisations, foreign Austrian savings credit cooperatives. The independent lawyer of the European Commission, Tanchevevev, Bulgaria, takes its opinion that the Republic of Bulgaria must respect EU legislation because, no matter what we are a legislative body, we have stepped into the protection of our citizens, it is, in a unanimous manner, more than two-thirds of the majority, the Constitution has been passed by a number of votes, the judge has, since in a conflict of interest, asked the court in Rijeka that the law does not comply with EU laws and regulations. This independent lawyer supported this, of course, the European Commission and is now in the European Court of Justice and does not have to be a binding opinion. However, it is very important that we as Parliament stand behind this decision whether they robbed before entering and negotiating the EU, and the savings credit union Raiffeisen, who robbed outside the law, outside the regulation, did not pay the RS tax. And now these people are happy that they had those loans because they got rid of the problem. However, it occurred to one judge to report it. send a preliminary question to review whether it is in conformity with the European Commission's law. So whose Parliament are we? You know what the Austrians did with them, and from their country. The Austrian Market Monitoring and Financial Control Agency forwarded to their State's Attorney's Office if they were a criminal organisation. The Hungarians, too. The European Court has also decided that it is a criminal organisation. Do we have the right as a Parliament to allow anyone to be above us, and unanimously from our fellow Scybols passed the Law, unanimously. The Hungarians simply did it, they declared it void, illegal and it was annulled and the European Court of Justice made such a decision. But what does the government do, I don't know what its opinion is, I don't know what the government's opinion is? For this reason, I propose that we Parliamentarians who have received the Parliament, who have passed this Law on the integrity of these Treaties, take sides with our citizens, to side with our financial stability, but when they have neither stopped the HANFA nor the CNB that have kept silent. Imagine, now these people have started processes that have been harmful to losing this dispute in the European Court of Justice. Imagine, so, another half million kuna, these people will have to pay for the damage, and they were 100% right, because these savings credit cooperatives are mob, thieving and criminal. And if a judge or judge has the right to kill us, we are a legislative body and we have an obligation to protect our citizens from the robbery of a foreign savings credit union and no European official is allowed to be above us, 134 parliamentary deputies have passed the Law on the integrity of these Treaties, these pests. and looting Croatian people. [[/Intruder: Time, Mr. Bull.]] I'm saying this loudly because of those people calling me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101694	Thank you. The following is the statement of view on behalf of the club. The first club to report for a position is the club of representatives of MOST, the representative Marko Sladolov will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So today I'm going to hold a break about an event that happened in the past few days, which is an unkind event at the school in Čakovec. So the headlines were that the professor attacked the students, but later it turned out that he was actually protecting his height and height of the profession and that it was simply that he crossed the line of what they were doing to him. It's about a man who's been working at that school for years, who's probably doing his job honestly and consciously and who's been harassed for months by these students, shot at by chalks, insulted and not protected by the system. So I don't justify his act but I can understand him as I did at school for 20 years. It is that the system does not protect professors and that this government refused to attack teachers on a union proposal. That this government has not yet passed a law on educational inspection, that you can report to a professor for an ordinary four in art, music, physical, and that because of this anonymous application of your parents, an educational inspection comes to you in school, spending your state budget, practically paying for your journals, giving you papers where you are totally as a teacher or a professor unprotected. So man is in some way a symbol of an unfair system, he is actually a symbol of every citizen of Croatia who is being trampled by the system, who is not protected and who simply could not bear injustice anymore. So this way I call on the Ministry of Education to accept the union's proposal that the attack on teachers is considered an attack on officials because the professor doesn't have any institute to protect himself, I don't know how familiar you are with the fact that you in the class have to put up with the student who insults you, who curses you, who shoots you and who you can't even get out of school. You can send it to the teaching service but the pedagogical services at school are gone, if she's busy with other jobs, you have to put up with it all the time. If you accidentally kick him out of class, something happens to that student during that, you'll also get fired, i.e. to answer criminally. In our schools there is a lack of pedagogical psychologists, we are one of the countries that has the highest attempt at suicide in primary and secondary schools and should be discussed, so students should be protected. We have the fact that this ministry employs a lot of administrations and very few professional services at school and it is time to launch a system so that cases like this, a professor in Čakovec who has somehow protected his dignity but acted in a perhaps inappropriate way but only that was left for him because the system did not protect him, so that he would not become a symbol of all the citizens that the system does not protect and that takes justice into its own hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101696	Let's move on, now it's the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101697	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens. The Marrakech Agreement or the compact or whatever they want to translate it, which will today be adopted and adopted by Plenkovic's government in Marrakesh, poses a threat to the safety of Croatia and their citizens. It's nice to see by not knowing what important subject it is in these years where HDZ and SDP agree. But why would he pose a danger? From 2015 to today, neighbouring countries in Croatia have dealt with the problem of migrants together with Croatia. Today neighboring countries refuse to go to Marrakesh. Why if it's all right? On the other hand, America, which has been a strategic partner to Croatia on its way to independence on its way to the United Nations, is on its way to the European Union. He also doesn't want to be part of the Marrakesh Agreement. Why? Can I just ask the question again why? And then who are we going to ask for help from? All the neighboring countries with whom we were supposed to solve the burning problem, do not want to be part of that pact. Who are we going to ask for help from? From Juncker? Maybe. From Sweden, Spain. Perhaps from the Juncekra, whose idea is the future of Europe, the idea where all the members of the European Union are not equal, that is the higher-speed model. Are we going to ask them for help? If we're finally going to be someone's front end again, and not now more the throne of Christianity, now we're going to be the wall of a bureaucratic Brussels apparatus. The President of Brussels. Is that what's going on today? Because how else do you explain that these MPs here, who have been chosen by the will of the citizens, have not even been given the opportunity to discuss kidnapping at all, is it good for Croatia or not to accept the Marrakech Agreement? You have made a series of scandals in the Croatian Parliament for the last week and a half, from the Committee on Foreign Policy to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, covering each other, just to fulfil the will of the Prime Minister who said before anything, any debate on the Marrakech Agreement will not be debated in the Parliament. I'm asking you now, is the government coming to consent, to support, to the Parliament's trust, or is it the Parliament that needs to listen to the government? As far as I know, the founder has imagined that the Parliament is giving support to the government, that the government is asking for support from the Parliament, not that some Prime Minister is telling the Parliament what is going to happen in Parliament, and that some pawns within the Parliament are doing what their boss told them, and we have no right here to even talk about whether it's good or not good for Croatia. If it's all so good, why didn't we even have a chance to talk about it? Which is why you didn't even allow a vote on the Committee on Foreign Policy, so here you go. Refuse not to discuss it in the House, but refuse, vote against it, you didn't want it either. The CDU has chosen today Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, her message after that was, will be reviewed by the migrant policy of Germany, but in Croatia, when the great boss orders nothing to be questioned, there is no need, because then everyone else who thinks perhaps differently will immediately be identified as separatists, as isolationists, as sub-capacitated persons and peoples. It's your policy. Labelling policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101698	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101699	We move to the next presentation of the position, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, Honored colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101700	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Today the last laws, the last day before the Constitutional break, the Constitution prescribed, are two of the most significant laws for 2/3 of Croatia. It is the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and the Law on Undeveloped Areas. It is unfortunate that it is in that term, regrettable that it is the last day, and the worst part is that it is an empty document in which nothing is solved for 2/3 of Croatia. The Ministry of Regional Development with this document, the proposal that is in the second reading today, will essentially put the last nail into the box 2/3 of Croatia. No concrete measure in the Laws on Mountain and Undeveloped Areas is contained in the Proposal for a Law which is in the second reading. And this is the attitude towards the undeveloped regions of the Republic of Croatia. This was, too, the Ministry as far as we know, in the EU funds at the bottom of the withdrawal, at the bottom of Europe, in the European Union, which says that it would be best to shut down, most desirable and transfer everyone to the Ministry of Finance, and from the surplus, to pay for kindergartens in undeveloped areas of co-financing, and the sad attitude of the Croatian Government towards undeveloped mountain-mounted mountain-mountan areas, which I can say, one example is the Split-Dalmatia County or Dalmatia. All the promises they made at the government in Split, all the promises I made through amendments to the Republic of Croatia's budget, none accepted, none, and these are very important amendments, from free textbooks for elementary school, to compounds on the highway, meaning very important compounds on the highway of the Cetinski end, the Imotski end, the Kninski end, the Drnik end that are dead. Most of these cities are empty as ghosts, these areas, we in these areas have fewer enrolled, this year 500 first-graders, 2700 less high school students, 7 schools are closed in these areas, and we have sensational statements of ministers as well as ministers of education that talk about modernising schools here, new pills, new textbooks, new Law on textbooks, while at the same time in these areas 2/3 of Croatia, most children have no possibility, their parents, their children go to kindergarten, have nowhere to deal with sports, and where they have halls, nothing is ever invested, and the minister can't say it's just the founder's fault, the county is the biggest problem. They're like a water heater, with a lot of rocks, everything stays in that water heater, all the money, all the decentralised resources. About health care services in the area, even more chaotic, women die in the ranks to perform ultrasounds, check the ultrasounds of breast examinations, countless protests of women. Countless messages, no one reacts. And it disappoints me most, what on these governments or sessions outside of Zagreb, the government promises so many projects, irrigation of the Sinj field, irrigation of the Vrgorak field, irrigation, however, there is nothing. The only thing that works well is the import lobby, which is that our regions, mountain-mounted areas and undeveloped areas are empty, and this is proof of today's Law on mountain-mounted areas and undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia. The last day of this part of the session and the last item of the agenda in the evening. This is a cry for heaven, 2/3 of Croatia and the carelessness of Croatian authorities, except that they know how to come to those parts and at the expense of people, to hold these sessions, at the expense of cities and these citizens, and therefore protest in this way that this Law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101701	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bulju
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101702	Now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the club. For now, it's just the Bridge Club. Here it is, can I have... Then you must clearly write, so you are not in the Parliament yesterday. [[You don't understand.]] We'll start by taking a stand on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most – independent lists will be spoken by the first respected representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I called this break until... The position of the Bridge Club on tomorrow's protest of teachers and professors, which will be held outside the Croatian National Theatre and where the demands of professors and teachers towards the Croatian Government will actually be articulated regarding their protection. [[You don't understand.]] It should also be said that this protest was the result of the attack on the teacher from Čakovec Mr. Francis, who spent 35 years zealously and fairly doing his job and who reacted as he reacted, but there was no longer any other option, and he was simply the victim of a system that did not protect him and afterwards began to report professors from all over Croatia with his testimony. And just in a way, the testimony of professors and teachers who were in some way also in the chamber in the Croatian public taboo topic because teachers were afraid to talk about it, because they thought if they were going to talk about it they would be called as bad teachers they started some things. I invite not only teachers and teachers to this protest, but also parents. So this is not just about protecting teachers and teachers, it's about protecting education entirely. It is because of a few students who interfere with teaching and who are endangering teachers suffer the entire education system. They suffer both parents and students who want to learn and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101704	My colleagues and colleagues, please be quiet. A colleague of Sladolev speaks at the pay phone. Please. Can we listen to a colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101705	This is about the right to education and the right to work. So, the pressure that teachers and teachers will try to articulate tomorrow towards the Croatian government, I hope, too, will result in some legal changes. These changes do not have to be proposed by the opposition, although we as a Club of Representatives will propose amendments to the Penal Code and we will have an initiative complete to declare the attack on teachers and teachers as an attack on an official person. And I also believe that the government will accept that because it has seen what the problem is. And I would once again invite all teachers and teachers to this protest tomorrow, and so would parents to join them, because this is a right to work, a right to education, and without it we won't be able to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101706	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101708	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the question of censorship on HRT or more specifically whether it is possible for Aleksandar Stankovic to censor at HRT. And the second question that came to me after reading an article is who is actually editor of Stankovic's show "Sunday at 2". In fact, three years ago we learned that the blogger Krule, i.e. Jadranko Hodak, is no longer commenting on Stankovic's show. And this is the article he's doing, he says, and I've been told that someone's not happy. After only a few months of commenting on "Sunday at 2" by Alexander Stankovic, popular blogger Jadranko Hodak, who is known to the general public as the blogger Krule, lost his engagement. About the interruption of cooperation, he only reported to the public through facebooks: “I know there will be questions, so here I am, no longer commenting on the guests on Sunday at 2 p.m. today I was told that someone is not satisfied with my comments and canceling commenting. That someone isn't the one you're gonna think about right now, baldy doesn't matter because I know it. And there's no point pointing a finger at him, and I know he'd come to you first. No, it's not him. If you're going to ask me who that someone is, I have no idea. I only know who isn't, Hodak started." What's this about? It's that if what blogger Krule said is true, that is, if it's true that he was cancelled from the HRT because someone didn't like his comments and if it's true that the bald one, and by my guess, the bald one who first comes to mind, when they think about Sunday at 2 a.m., is Alexander Stankovic, means that he says that some of his comments didn't like it and actually says that Stankovic has no connection, the next question is whether censorship is generally being carried out on HRT. Under number 2, whether censorship is being performed on "Sunday at 2" and whether it is possible that Aleksandar Stankovic is not the one who actually decides who will be part of his show but someone else decides and he only implements it. These questions are being asked, these are serious questions because, I say, if what blogger Krule is saying is true, it gives us a lot to think about HRT's work, about HRT's show leaders and actually the state of freedom and censorship on HRT. More recently, Croatian journalistic society president Hrvoje Zovko was fired on HRT. And one of the reasons why he went into conflict with HRT, he says it was precisely censorship. So I ask the question, since some other journalists have lost their jobs in the past time as well. Denis Latin because he was doing a "Latin" show about Karamark and lost his show, I wonder if it's possible that similarity and consent to censorship is actually something that guarantees some individual to stay in the HRT scheme. On the other hand, the question arises that expressing your own opinion and touching sensitive topics is possible that such an approach to work actually leads to people staying either without a show or without a job. I believe that these are questions that need to be answered because HRT should be in the public interest and serve the public rather than be subordinated, so to speak, in private, I am interested in a few individuals in the government and their public television associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101709	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with. And like I said, now we're going to have a break from 3:15 when we're going to continue with the next point. MEETING IN 14.23 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101710	The following statement of view on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and the Power-respected colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101711	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. It's lunchtime Friday and Mr. Assembly MPs what happens at their workplace, 141 out of 151 is absent, they are not already warm, they enjoy the benefits of their privileges and good wages safely. However, citizens suffer the consequences of their inability to pass any laws, and one of them is the Law on renting apartments, which was recently adopted in this same high house. While there, individuals enjoy here only 200m from the airport line in Gundulić Street number 8, an old man with a mental and physical condition has schizophrenia and serious stomach problems, called Darko Požežanec, was thrown out on the street by his landlord and in moments when he was in the hospital for treatment. The man who was born in that apartment lived in it for more than 70 years where his parents lived and died after being brought from the hospital at the door he found locotes, changed locks and was literally left in such a state, hence severe mental and physical state to sleep on the street and he had already slept on the street for 7 days to disappear today and no one knew where he was. This is the consequence of the law proposed by the HNS and supported by the HDZ majority and in which we said that people of old, powerless, sick would end up on the street and when you said you wouldn't knowingly deceive the public. Yeah, it's winter, old and sick people throw themselves out on the street, if you don't believe it, you have 10 minutes on foot there, you don't even need a car. And you were saying, and you lied that these people would get some kind of advantage in some housing state, that there would be places in nursing homes, and that's not the case, that's not the case. You have thrown a bone between the two groups of citizens to fight each other until extinction by delaying this problem until 2023 when this government will no longer be saddled, instead of having solved the problem responsibly, responsibly, because there were both opportunities and resources and time and the obligation to solve this problem. And what now with Mr. Darko Požezanec here would now the smart guys say, what I care about the commie got is what he wanted, that's your logic, you politicize everything, you mock everything, you all look at the heart of stone and you don't want to think about it being someone's parent, someone's grandfather, and eventually it's gonna be you tomorrow. And, Croatia is at the point of one Constitution, the social state, and then you change the Constitution, you write Croatia is a country where the stronger, the stronger, that clutches, and that's that. Yes, Croatia is a country where a party with a 1.2 rating can do whatever it wants, and we know that the secretary of state was in conflict of interest. That he wrote the Law to help himself. And how he made noise there, and how clever he was, this, and knew in advance that the consequences of his law would be cruel, cruel, and inhuman. I therefore invite Mr. Uhlir, Secretary of State, Minister and Vice-President of the Government of Štromar and Mr. Kuštević from this place to ask about the whereabouts of Mr. Darko Požezanec, and by which the Law and by what right, he was expelled from his only home on the street. I hope something will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101712	Thank you, dear fellow Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101713	It is now up to counterpart Goran Aleksic, on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101714	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101715	Wait a minute. A colleague, Glasovic, does not have a replica of exposure or the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ... Now you want an injury? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You are always entitled to a breach of the Rules of Procedure but you also have the opportunity to receive a warning if you abuse that institution. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101716	I didn't insult individuals, I insulted one failed doctrine, one metal assembly. Because our question isn't a Mr. Young there, who doesn't know who attacked him there and why he doesn't say it openly, who attacked him upstairs. I know who attacked us. And our question is the anthropological question, anthropologically, until we face it we won't go forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101717	So, a colleague of Glavasevic received a warning and you are also being warned because you have abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And I'd ask all my colleagues and colleagues not to, we've changed the Rules of Procedure for that, but I can see that you continue to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I don't think it's correct and that you're doing it on purpose. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101718	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. I must say a few words about what is current and the current is that there are already several audits in the Supreme Court for decisions of the county courts to which the banks are either punished or not punished. Some decisions set out that it must be returned to the damaged debtors overpaid, after the conversion of CHF credits to eurocredits, and other decisions set out that the conversion does not allow the overpaid money to be paid to the debtors who contracted CHF loans. And now we have a situation where audits have been made by both banks and prosecutors in the Supreme Court, depending on who is unsatisfactory and needs to be decided as soon as possible. I'm really sorry that we've been waiting for some decisions for years, but unfortunately that's how it works in Croatia. The judiciary is a little slower than it should be, something a little slower than it should be. I wish it was faster, but unfortunately it's what it is. And now that the President of the Supreme Court has promised the public that the Franak case will have priority. And I really expect that decisions on these issues will be made whether debtors have a right after the conversion to compensation will be made very quickly. One audit has already been made in June this year, one audit was filed about two, three weeks ago and I don't know if there are any more audits. And indeed there are no more obstacles to the Supreme Court finally solving that one, I would say Gordy's knot. Because what's this about? 55,000 debtors negotiated CHF loans after which they converted these loans into euro loans under the law. I have already explained here in the Croatian Parliament why this conversion does not have the power to convalitate unfair contractual provisions. So I wouldn't say much again, but I must say that the Supreme Court had already decided on similar cases 10, 15 years ago, and that it then decided that a law which did not explicitly establish that some conversion of contract provisions could be considered a convention, that in that case such conversion did not have the power to convalitate unfair contractual provisions. So, it's quite clear, the Supreme Court has already taken its stand on this. The second question is the mathematical question, mathematically too, the conversion does not make more than 50% of what is given by the verdict because the conversion has reduced only the principal. The remaining capital was reduced by about 30% on average for all debtors who converted their loans. However, those debtors who converted loans did not receive compensation because the one who sues the bank will also receive compensation and will get a reduced principal if he still pays the loan in the Swiss franc currency clause. In addition to waiting impatiently for that decision, because in June 2019, a limitation of claims occurs, and then all those debtors who converted loans must sue before June 2019 to get their overpaid money and before that they must certainly have legal certainty to go to court for the purpose of obtaining that money and not to pay more bank costs. That is why it is very important to make this decision as soon as possible. Except we're waiting for that decision so impatiently we have a problem with the banks. Banks still do not respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. First, when a rightful verdict was made that an unfair and harmless variable interest rate was made, they claimed that they had changed the interest rate in a fair manner. However, we already have a 50-to-one verdict where it has been found not to be true. Banks don't recognize the legal order. The second issue of the EU court has found that the arbitrations conducted outside courts, outside national courts of the Republic of Croatia and other EU courts, that such arbitrations are not valid. However, our banks have launched arbitration in Washington. And what do we do about it? How can legal entities operating in Europe violate EU law? How is it possible that we did not punish those legal entities in Croatia? How can we let them do what they want here and violate the rights of both Croatian citizens and the law of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101719	This led us to the end of the debate in the clubs, so now we're moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101720	Next statement of view on behalf of the club of representatives, colleague Branimir Bunjac, please. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101721	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. In recent weeks, we have witnessed a potentially unremembered scandal and new disgrace by the Ministry of Defence and the entire government of the Republic of Croatia. It's about a contract for the acquisition of fighter aircraft F-16 that was arranged with an Israeli salesman selling us American planes. Although this job was agreed in principle in 2017 and the budget provided funds amounting to HRK 350 million, the contract has not been signed until today and it is uncertain whether it will ever be signed. Minister Zdravko Maric didn't know how to answer that question yesterday, nor could he say what he would do with 350 million kunas still standing in the budget and not a single lip was spent. So after the MiG 21 remont case in Ukraine for which we paid 150 million kuna and we never got the money back or usable planes and left Croatia without the defense of the airspace, so now we have the ultimate creaminess in the defence strategy of the Republic of Croatia, specifically the Ministry of Defence in which we will again appear to remain short sleeves. Because apart from Israeli planes being old and unusable, they may even be carried out through a remont for a maximum of 10 years and according to the information that appears in the public, the American manufacturer of F-16 does not want to take those planes on a remont because they are so altered by different upgrades and additions that the father of God would not fix them and bring them into the driver's condition. This whole job was supposed to cost 2 billion 900 million kuna, it was supposed to include everything that goes with those planes, meaning service, weapons, adaptation and infrastructure, but we see that the whole thing is being questioned because the contract is not yet signed. The contract was supposed to be signed in the summer, so it was supposed to be signed in September, so it was supposed to be signed in November, and now suddenly we have a situation six days ago, Israel's defence minister who signed the contract, Mr Lieberman Avigdor, resigned and, at the same time, the president of the state of Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic, leaves for Paris on the 100th anniversary of World War I, to discuss the finalisation of the contract on the sale of fighter aircraft. So for what reason does the President of the State have to talk to the American president about a deal that was agreed with Israel? So it is quite clear that the NATO Alliance has blocked the purchase of planes because they do not meet their standards and are completely useless and now the President of the Republic is trying to fix what is being fixed so it is urging Trump to allow these planes to be bought anyway, so that Croatia does not completely embarrass himself. And she's already embarrassed herself and it's unfortunate that the President of the Republic has to do a job that Mr Krstičevic should have done and that he should have done, so instead of those two butts thanking the President for doing their jobs, they still make fun of her every day and think that the problem will be solved by themselves, and she obviously won't get rid of it. So for years, the Republic of Croatia has no anti-aircraft and air defence, our security is completely compromised, and we see that the government is simply not capable of solving this problem, whether it is a conflict of interest, whether it is corrupt actions, which should be answered by the competent authorities, and what matters to us at this point is that the Treaty is not realised, that 350 million unused kunas remain in the budget with which, I do not know, Minister Maric, do so, even less Minister Krsticevic, and therefore we believe that if this Treaty is not realised by the end of the year, and the funds fail, that someone should resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101722	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101723	Now we're going to take a stand on behalf of the club. We have four clubs registered, the first on behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club will be spoken by a respected representative, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101724	Thank you, Chairman. In today's stop, I will look back at the citizens' protest outside the dump, or the Centre for Waste Management of the Marines, which took place several days ago. The citizens who gathered there first complain about the impossible conditions of life, the unbearable smell that spreads around that area, mostly when they smoke the south. It's primarily about the sulfurconductor, and besides that the air is in danger, the soil is threatened, and the water is at risk. Namely, the Centre for Waste Management Marinery is located about 200 m above the river Rečina, from which we know the city of Rijeka is powered by water. Not only the people of Viskov, but also the entire river area and the city of Rijeka, has the right to clean air, clean water, clean ground, groundwater, agricultural area and it is required that the Centre for Waste Management Marinery is simply closed. The whole plan of the waste management centre has been dragging away since 2007, at first there were 13 centers then reduced to 11, from 11... It was built by Kastijon in Istria and Marinery in the hinterland of Rijeka and two others are in some kind of completion and as far as the other seven are concerned, they either didn't begin to collect the documentation, or the documentation was only in some initial steps. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, there are great delays, and what's built, wrong technologies have been used, rather than waste management based on some sort of classification or recycling and such technologies, procedures and policies, it's based on the collection of garbage, drying, pressing the same and producing some kind of bricks, bales, or if you want a trash briquette. The idea was, then, that these briquettes were used to sell for deposit in the industry, say at the cement store, but what happened? That's not happening. Instead of the centres earning money because they sell these briquettes to the industry, it happens the opposite, that they have to pay someone to drive it away, to get rid of it, but now we're in a situation where nobody's gonna take it away for money, and then we find ourselves in a situation where they actually lay it down there, that it's buried there, and it's all a total disaster. The citizens who were there asked me to order Mr. Obersnel, the Mayor of Rijeka and Mr. Komadini, the Mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County, so that those very much living there in Viskovo, the municipality of Viskovo, near the CGO, would be very happy to trade their houses for Mr. Komadina's house and their apartments there for Mr. Obersnel's apartment, one for one, so without any compensation and compensation, and they said similarly about the municipality's leadership to actually experience the consequences of their policy from the first hand. It should also be said that there was a chaos in the documentation of the CGO itself, so there was a conflict in the construction of these centres and the definition of subprotective zones, we also know about Resnik here in Zagreb, we also know about Biljana Donja, we also know about Marinščina. What is very important and related to this topic of the waste management plan, we have heard today at the Committee on Environmental Protection, 371 million kuna, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has therefore secured in the budget for the following year for the acquisition of cans for the collection of plastics and paper, however 100 million kuna is missing for composting cans. The state has a surplus, like there's money, it buys and spends all sorts of things, but for 100 million for composting cans, there's no money. There are no 100 million kunas to finally start solving the problem of waste management but there will be more money to pay for the foam to Europe because the same cans and other things are not obtained in time and that the system has not organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101725	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101726	We're going to the fourth debate. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, on behalf of the club of representatives of the Living Wall and the Power, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101727	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. For the past few months, we have witnessed a dishonest war of HDZ factions that should not be of interest to us that at the same time it is not about the abuse of state institutions for these purposes. The war is reportedly being fought by Andrej Plenkovic, Gordan Jandrokovic, Bozinović and Skegro, against Kolinda, Milan Brkic and Milan Bandic. And as far as we can see, they all use intelligence underground methods. Yesterday in the Morning List, we had the opportunity to read the alleged full statement of a former police informant from Belišč, Franjo Varg, at the police station, since he is the same suspect in falsifying messages that were meant to serve politicians and their related persons for the compromise of judges, lawyers, but also non-matched persons, up to the top of state authorities. The testimony came through some strange way to the media, and certainly with the blessing of Mr Bozinović, as well as probably Andrej Plenkovic himself. The data in the statement is very disturbing. Supposedly sports employee Zdravko Mamic, was illegally sentenced to 6.5 years in prison for tax evasion and robbery, has his judges, his own, the County Court and even the Supreme Court. It was only through Vice-President Millian Brkic that he put pressure on the chief state attorney himself. Although Mr. Dinko Cvitan has denied it, it remains unclear why it is still the same today under 24-hour police protection. In addition, Zdravko Mamic allegedly illegally funded the election campaign of Miljan Brkic, and blackmailed his teachers to take away plagiarized ones, not to take away plagiarized graduate work and to grant him the cosmetic processing of the same, which they subsequently accepted as valid. Miljan Brkic and Tomislav Karamarko, former HDZ president, are conducting their private investigations against HDZ members to blackmail them, for example. Does anyone have mistresses and the like? If that is true, and for some reason this news has been released to the media, it is quite clear that the top of the HDZ itself is once and now serving the methods of the KGB and the GESTAPO. We read that Zdravko Mamić was very broad-handed, so Vargi gave him a laptop and various gifts for computer services, but he also gave him 500,000,00 kn in cash. If Zdravko Mamić gave more or less irrelevantly, Vargi hundreds of thousands of kunas on his hands, it is justified to ask how much he gave to Milijan Brkic and Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, with whom he is obviously connected. We see that at least one adviser to President Vlado Galic collaborated with Varg, and he reportedly threatened even Dalia Oreshkovic, chairman of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. Among other things, Varga argues that it is nothing strange because the country's own president ordered that the Prime Minister be destroyed in this way. We learn that HDZ went so far as to falsify at least part of his 5+ election programme for 2015, which he wrote from Mile Vasic from Prnjavor, and then presented it as a German info programme. The media has written about this before. It is important to note that the article in the morning carefully left out everything that might compromise Andrej Plenkovic or his associates. What's the point of that, it's quite clear, first of all, politically. For the Croatian public, the following consequences are crucial, or one HDZ will fence unequivocally and convincingly from Franjo Varga's statement, or two, will immediately replace Miljan Brkic from the post of Vice-President of the Parliament. It is unacceptable for a person, as Varga described her in his statement, to be a representative in HS at all, let alone his vice president. We also expect HDZ to make it clear whether President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic is using the intelligence underground to tear down the prime minister, and, if so, we expect HDZ or its majority to initiate the process of changing the president, or in pict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101728	Next, the next position on behalf of the Club will be presented by the esteemed representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, in the name of the Living Wall and the Power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101729	Thank you, Chairman. I took a break to condemn the non-transparent and unscheduled practice of sending the budget as documents to the Parliament, that is, everything that happens until the very vote of that budget. In fact, we have given many amendments, one good part of these amendments has not been passed or has not been approved by the competent authorities and the question is why. Here, we've asked around, since this time an unusually large number of amendments... It wasn't approved, why did their disapproval take place? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, it is an amendment for the salary of firefighters, conto APP 3.1.1. First of course we called the committee in charge of Parliament, they told us to call the Ministry of Finance, well, after a few numbers in the Parliament, we call us the Ministry of Finance, and they don't know the same thing, so they send us to more departments within the Ministry of Finance, the state budget, so the treasurer, and so on, you can't get too many answers, nobody knows, like the bosses do, we're just creating a framework, you can't get anyone. Finally someone still says call the MUP, well, we call the MUP, because that item is in the class relating to the Ministry of the Interior, and there the gentleman says, "I have to call the oxy people who write the budget to get an answer, because I don't know exactly how much the amount goes to the firefighters, since we're just writing the plan what I've been told." And in the end, you can't even figure out why some amendments have fallen or why they haven't been approved. It's about not being able to give an amendment to what the budget stock is because... There are earlier obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we don't know as MPs, and we don't know it anywhere in the papers, in that riot of the budget that we get, where are these reserved funds, where are these earlier commitments, and what's going on? We're all wasting our time, making an effort to write those amendments so they don't eventually pass. So, on the other hand, someone also spends time saying no, no, this is reserved for you that can't go away. We're forced to do something that's predicated to failure. I therefore call on Minister Maric or who will already be in charge of the next rebalancing budgets to provide information on where these funds are reserved, to know in advance where the amendment cannot be done because it does not make sense because it will not go through, or to what extent, to which amount can be taken from a certain item. Absurd to be greater happened that the same amendment by one of the authorities or some club from the government and the other by the opposition and this by the authorities has passed, although it removes the same amount from the same cont, and this by the opposition has not passed. I therefore call for this intransparency, indeterminateness, by doing so, so the research on why this has happened, to be heard, and for political reasons, it has been so rejected. I ask that in this House we respect procedures, that data, information be delivered in time, and not that things be unarranged, and that the parliamentary staff and staff are educated by the ministries, therefore, officials, or officials, first of all, be able to give us correct information, that they can give information in time, that the matter be as it is, as God commands, and not that we have this sort of twists and all of this that happens every year over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101730	Let's go to the fourth debate. It's the esteemed Ivan Willibor Sincic, on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101731	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I took this break to present the analysis we did in the Living Wall. It is called Analysis of the implementation and effectiveness of the construction and release regulations in the work of the source of non-ionising electromagnetic radiation, it has been done for several months and comprises 106 base stations in the City of Zagreb randomly selected. I announce from this place that we will extend the analysis to the entire City of Zagreb and to the entire Republic of Croatia, especially because it is therefore threatened by the results of the analysis. Here I will present them here and read just to introduce the data used in this analysis are those of the City Office for Spatial Planning, Construction of the City, Construction, Municipal Affairs and Transport of the City of Zagreb and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Namely, of the 106 base stations in the City of Zagreb for each with a cadastrian particle, operator and other data were requested data on the use of the permit, on the building permit while the building permit was needed, now you no longer need to cancel this need, now you just need to register the beginning of the works. The results are scandalous and shocking and clearly show that Croatia is not a legal state and that the law of the government at every turn. In this analysis of the application and impact of the construction regulations, it was found that in the City of Zagreb of 106 randomly selected base stations 69.82% were illegally placed and 90.57% were released without a valid permit, so we have 70% of the illegal base stations in the period until construction was needed, and today, when the start of works is due to be reported, the start of works has not been reported. All you need a valid permit 90% doesn't have a valid license. I would remind only that the inspection does not work, does not sanction, the prescribed penalties for operators range from 100 to 150 thousand kuna. It is clear that in the Republic of Croatia, telecoms can do whatever they want and wherever they want, behave the way they do in their countries, Austria, Germany, Sweden, they do not behave. Croatia is the only country not only in the EU, a European continent where no building permit is needed to set up a base station, no need to ask the tenants, no need to ask local committees, or there is a very perfidious way to avoid the same to set up a work station, a base station pardon. As far as the levels are concerned, they are more than multiple in the western countries, according to publicly available data in Switzerland, the level of electric field for mobile networks in urban settlements can be 200 millivolts per m2 and with us 8.9 volts per m, or 44 times stronger. In Belgium, mobile networks at 900 mHz have an electric field of 6 volts per m, and all operators share one location. The solution to this is all the amendment of several laws and regulations, so first of all it is necessary to introduce the Construction and Construction Authorisation Act, and it is necessary to amend the Law on protection against non-ionising radiation in order to introduce the need to be in spatial plans, so in advance the provisions of the location where these cells would be and that operators share locations, thus reducing their number and distribution. Also, a valid licence should be controlled, which is now also not done. I'd just like to say, about this development of broadband internet in the Republic of Croatia if you look at Western countries, developed countries are in the rules of developing optical cables, we're on the contrary, developing wireless vaifai and while France, for example, has banned the installation of vaifai in children's school, we're talking about pills, mobile phones, smart phones that children should use in education. There was a huge amount of funds in the EU to build infrastructure, almost nothing has been withdrawn, it is also a government failure, and I also believe that teleoperators, a special story, but the upgrade to this is precisely 5G technology, but since I don't have time to do it another time. I call on all Croatian citizens to stand up against this lawlessness of lawlessness and finally we all fight together for the rule of law and respect, which is existing laws, which we can bring new ones to the benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101732	Mr. Bunjac, it will be the position of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101733	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, the public is again seeking to talk about the introduction of the euro and the alleged benefits that we will benefit from and it is said that Croatia will not have any costs. That's just not true. So thanks to the currency clause and the unrealistic rate, already a large part of the profits, privatised companies, goes abroad, already now Croatia gives Europe 75% of its customs duties, we give one part of the VAT and if we introduce the euro, we will have to give 700m euros, into the European protection mechanism, and we will have to give 700m euros to the European Central Bank. In addition, the cost of conversion into the euro will be half of GDP, we will have the cost of making bills and coins of the euro, we will have the cost of adapting IT accounting and other administrations and what is most devastating of all, we will have the cost of rising prices and above all retail prices, which will be the most felt by socially endangered citizens. So they'll collect bread, milk, coffee and some other products. Once we enter the eurozone, Croatia will have to pay Greek debt. So at this point, Croatia does not have to pay the debts of Greece, but if we enter the eurozone, we will have to pay those debts. Governor Vujčić and the government do not tell the truth, when they say Croatia has an obligation to introduce the euro, there is no deadline for the euro to be introduced. That is so, the cases of the Czech Republic, Sweden, Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and many other countries that have the conditions to introduce the euro but do not introduce it. It is important to note that when we enter the euro area, we will also get new taxes, because taxes must be harmonised, so it is said, with the rest of the euro area, which usually means that taxes will be both new and higher. Croatia is not ready at all for the euro. In order to enter the euro, we need to make as much equal as we do with the German and Austrian economies, and especially what we need to equalise is income. So there is no positive effect, if Croatia with such salaries and with such an economy enters the same space with highly developed economies, as I have just stated. I would also like to say that, according to all the polls available, more than 70% of Croatian citizens do not want the introduction of the euro, and for this reason I consider Minister Maric's final statement that this issue will not be conducted in a referendum. So if this government is afraid of something, then the fact that it is the most afraid of the referendum, that is, the opinions of its people, which in this case clearly shows us. The referendum must be, especially if it is such a big difference in opinion, because I don't think there is a need for permanent Croatian citizens to impose something they don't want in the large majority. It is also important to say that if Croatia enters the European zone, it will lose any opportunity to conduct a sovereign monetary policy or devaluation and will depend entirely on decisions to be made in Frankfurt and other centres of power. All serious analyses suggest that by introducing the EUR, the Republic of Croatia will put the last nail into the coffin of the Croatian economy and that we will enter a state of permanent recession. If I've ever said any information that's very important, then that's the one I'm saying right now. And for this reason, I ask you to remember my words well when you think or vote on it, express your opinion, whether we need the EUR Or not. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101734	Now, let's move on to popularly named breaks or applications for a position on behalf of a club of representatives and independent lists, meaning club and independent. The first is Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101735	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The head of the ministry. These days we received more complaints from persons and associations with diabetes. They complain that there is an intention, moreover, that it has already been decided by the responsible bodies to move the key medicine for diabetes, insulin, from the list of basics on the list of supplemental medicines. It is reportedly done in a way to transfer responsibility to drug manufacturers, although it is the main culprit of HZZO, which drastically reduces the purchase price of insulin. The patients note that diabetes is a permanent disease, and they need systematic care and help. The parents were particularly concerned about the disease of children, who believe that with the approach so far, the child could remain, practically healthy, their whole life, as it had just been treatment with insulin, helped them to suppress changes in the veins, kidneys, and eyes. They are concerned that they will have to be paid at high levels under the new classification of insulin, which many home budgets will not endure, and the intended decision will in the long term cause the development of complications both acute and chronic, which will affect the eyes, kidneys and peripheral nerves, and will ultimately increase the cost of HZZO even more and not reduce them as they naively thought. Patients want to be forced to return to the use of syringes and needles, which have not been used for nearly 3 decades, as only insulin in vials would not be charged. More modern ways of using insulin, we just couldn't afford it. It is important to note that even without an increase in the price of insulin, they already have increased health costs, especially those suffering from type 2 diabetes. They have to take a number of pills, food supplements and the like, and in this way their costs would be increased multiplely. Croatia has been a country so far, which on the health issue has been arranged quite solidly and evenly for all segments of the population and patients, especially those whose medicine means life. This is for the first time in the history of healthcare, that such an unreasonable decision is made, which is that people who cannot survive without a cure want to be charged. After this treatment, it is clear that due to the poor management of health resistors and lack of solution, we are gradually moving to Americanization or entering a system in which only one who has money can be healthy and can survive. All others are scheduled for informal euthanasia. We must inevitably ask the question whether these are the successes of Minister Kujundzic and the former health minister, Nakic, who is sitting in the HZZO Steering Council. Is this a way to settle health debts created by irrational business and political staffing? Why do the debts made by politicians always have to pay the citizens over and over again? 300,000 diabetes patients, I ask the competent authorities to reconsider the way this decision was taken and the consequences of this decision before it was taken into account by no single diabetic. Insulins in the case of diabetics mean the same thing to a healthy human air and water, or without them, they cannot survive without it. This is a question of whether it's a Republic of the States or just a deep state, not to say it's a random state. If we're not going to worry about human lives, it's really a question of what the state is for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101736	The "Live Wall" and "SNAGE" representatives club also asked for a position, according to a representative, Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101737	I thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues on December 17, 1985, the UN General Assembly declared volunteer day, the International Volunteer Day, and that day was yesterday, so 5.12. each year is marked as volunteer day. And on this occasion I congratulate all volunteers in the Republic of Croatia who in the last 30 years have worked on the well-being of Croatian citizens, and above all I congratulate all the volunteers of the Franak Association that I consider to be, I am little in the conflict of interest to praise my own, but what I can do, I believe that the Franak Association is a civil society that has achieved the most in the achievement of human rights and the rights of citizens in the Republic of Croatia since when the Republic of Croatia exists as an independent state. I think what the Franak Association has actually accomplished is the biggest after winning the Homeland War. And what did she accomplish? In 2011, it was established, in 2012 it raised the first and for the time being the only collective suit for consumer protection, in 2013, we received a first-degree verdict in our favour, and in June of this year we received a final judgment against 8 banks who were accused of actually doing illegal business in the Republic of Croatia and we received satisfaction in collective terms. These 8 accused banks were found to have negotiated unfairly and therefore to be injure the contract provisions on the Swiss franc currency clause and the variable interest rate to be amended by the Bank's decision. These banks, which are “holy cows” of the Republic of Croatia, because no one has put an end to them until now, which they earn every year a huge, huge profit, which they get, even when the whole state is cramping in a minus, when entrepreneurs are squirming, the citizens are nudged in minus and the banks are earning profits. It was only 1998 that they had a shortfall and had a shortfall for another year due to the conversion of 2015, all other years of banks in the Republic of Croatia earn huge profits. However, these banks make the profit primarily because they charge huge fees to Croatian citizens, which they charged and still charge illegal interest rates and charge the illegal currency clause of the Swiss franc. In this way they came in over 10 billion kunas of extra profits. All this extra profit, thanks to the Franak Association and its judicial struggle, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have negotiated loans with unfair contractual provisions can get back into their pockets. However, in order to get back all that extra profit, all that robbery, I would say, the profits of Croatian banks, the citizens must sue Croatian banks. Volunteers of the Franak Association, dozens and dozens of volunteers, have been working for the benefit of Croatian citizens for the last eight years, however, as far as we as representatives work for the benefit of Croatian citizens, the big question is. The question will come to the test again next year, once the case-law is finally established, and that will probably be next year, after we find out if the people who converted CHF loans have the right to compensation. I will certainly launch an initiative towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare a special law on the basis of which all the money that the banks have, I will say openly, robbed of Croatian citizens, under the blessing of the Croatian National Bank, under the blessing of all the Governments of the Republic of Croatia so far and under the blessing of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament who have worked in this House. So, I expect final court practice to be established, I expect the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide soon on whether we have the right after the conversion to compensation and after that 125000 people who have negotiated CHF loans have the right to obtain their money by court, and I expect all of us to solve this systematically next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101738	Now it is up to the esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and the Power, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101739	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, these days came up with information about the acquisition of Croatian banks in the past 9 months and it is evident that they continue to do business here in one spirit of the best possible entrepreneur in the history of the Republic of Croatia, threads only have money available to others, intercede and earn huge, huge profits. So I'd go back a little bit in the last 20 years, let's remember the banks have had a minus 2 years, '98. in the year and 2015. In 2015, it was a conversion of chf loans so they had a alleged loss, the loss actually does not exist, because the banks of mothers had no such loss but rather they had this huge profit which then fell on the back of Croatian banks because of the conversion of CHf credits. But I'd go back 15 years, so let's see how the banks did it, 15 years ago. So in 2003, they had a profit of 2.8 billion kuna, 2004. 3.73, 2005. 4,09, 2006. 4.2, 2007. 5.14 billion, 2008. 5,7, 2009. 4.3 billion, 2010. 4,3, 2011. 4,7, 2012. 3.45, 2013 slightly less than 1 billion, 2014. 2.52 billion, 2015 minus for conversion minus 4.3 billion, 2016 huge profit 6.37, 2017 for 1/3 less than 2016. 4.15 because of Agrokor that we understand each other and finally in 2018, the first 9 months will receive 5.25 billion kuna. The total gross profit of banks over the last 15 years has been 60 billion kuna, meaning net profits slightly above 48 billion kuna. So I would look back a little on this year, the first 9 months of 2018 the largest bank in Croatia ZABA, PBZ and Erste bank had a total profit of 3.8 billion kuna, that's before taxing, of course. These banks have a total of 9.877 employees, which means that on average every employee makes a profit bank of 42,423 kuna per month, imagine profit, because profit is not income, profit is what the bank remains, income is much higher. So, the profit comes when you deduct both wages and expenses and all the bank's obligations, so I'm talking about profit on the pure money that the bank makes for its owner. What does that mean? This means that bank owners still have to pay 18% of the tax on that amount and the rest is theirs. If we compare the business of Croatian banks with banks in the neighborhood then we see that compared to economies that are stronger than our banks here, they are disproportionately better at business. How is that possible? So, for example, from the Slovenian banks, the Croatian banks have 68% higher profits this year, and GDP is higher than our Slovenian only 11%, disproportionately higher bank profits. As for Serbian banks, let's look at a slightly weaker economy, 59% of the higher profits have our banks, and GDP is 31% higher. As far as Hungarian banks are concerned, let's see a strong economy, 51% is less profit for our banks than Hungarian banks, while Hungarian GDP is 180% higher than Croatian GDP at the same time. It is therefore very interesting to see banks in Croatia do disproportionately better business compared to stronger economies in Croatia than in these stronger economies. Why is that? Because they charge huge fees, because they charge illegal interest rates that are higher by 100, 200 and 300% than in other countries, because they don't, because here they don't actually invest, the banks here don't invest those living from Croatian citizens, so that Croatian citizens' money is credited and made on fees, so they earn huge profits from Croatian money. It is therefore necessary to appeal to banks than next year systematically address the problem of the compensation of all damaged debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101740	The next statement on behalf of the Representatives and Independent Lists Club is counterpart Branimir Bunjac, in front of the Living Wall and Power. Here you go, buddy Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. For a long time, according to the survey available, we can read that the Croatian Parliament is the worst-rated institution in the Republic of Croatia. The above-mentioned legislative body is once the country's pride, in the opinion of most citizens today, reduced to the level of the official office in which all government decisions are blindly and uncritically confirmed, while at the same time the party's listeners deserve to receive high wages, various privileges that an average citizen can only dream of. It is really hard not to agree with most of these criticisms, and the question is who is to blame for such a situation, primarily and only Andrej Plenkovic, who in April 2017 opened Pandora's box of influence trade, the purchase of MPs, the open fraud of voters and the abuse of institutions above all by the judicial authorities. As a result, the opposition parties were roughed up with corrupt measures, threats and blackmails, starting from the CNS to the largest SDP party. There's been a trade between agents who are on some salary, who are in the meat shop, and sometimes they wonder how much a kilo of brain costs, and today they're wondering how much it costs one hand. At the same time, the process of suffocating parliamentaryism and the very democracy in the assembly took place because Pharaoh was offended that the MPs were asking questions and giving opinions, and he was particularly bothered that the MPs were taking breaks, so he ordered the Parliament's presidency to make a new Rules of Procedure, which de facto abolished not only the breaks but also the replicas. Following this discussion, they became sterile and monotones reduced to monologues, boring to see that the plenary session is becoming less and less representative. It all comes down to a vote per jokebachter on Friday from 12 to 14 a.m. where some MPs vote without even knowing what they're voting on. Not only is there no interesting discussion but the opposition is treated as a distraction, as something evil and ugly to show extreme disrespect and contempt. This is best seen by the fact that no amendment to the opposition has been adopted in 2.5 years, let alone the law, no parliamentary committees are allowed, and about a quarter of the documents don't even come to a plenary session like the Marrakech Agreement. Out of the ruling majority, even from the ranks of the Prime Minister and the assembly themselves, the most ugly insults such as hives, fools, primitives, and shepherds are being directed against the opposition. The MPs are severely punished, so so far, opposition representatives have received more than 250 strict measures, much of which, by taking away words and throwing out of the hall. The MPs are sent to the guards to be physically removed from this hall, that's a fact. And thus the Croatian Parliament is disabled in its work as at the time of Khuen Hedervary, and the newly-componed follower of the great.../incomprehensible/... Andrej Plenkovic, proved to be the worst bureaucrat and narcissist willing to step across corpses, and everything to spend the will of foreign centres of power against the interests of his own people and to accomplish something that can only be called a career for him. However, the opposition has not yet disappeared last week at the HDZ Assembly, when the meeting was interrupted by opposition representatives, they managed to save at least a few honours and democracys in their bodies in this House of Commons. Their gesture was equal, as was the gesture of 10 students led by Stjepan Radic, who burned the Hungarian flag in 1895 on Jelačić Square. The message is, Brussels is not and will not conquer Croatia, as neither Hungarians nor Hungarians could. In conclusion, I call on the ruling to restore democracy, responsibility and authority to the Croatian Parliament to the hands of the people's representatives. I call on the current Rules of Procedure of Parliament to be abolished as soon as possible and to return the old and show mutual respect. Otherwise, I warn HDZ that for everything that will follow in the House in the future, they will solely be held accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101742	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101869	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now starting to ask the Government, or, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 132.-139. In the current morning, it is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for the question is Representative Milorad Pupovac, who is asked by Gabrieli Zalac, the minister of regional development and EU funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101870	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask the question to the Minister of Regional Development and European Funds. Ms. Ministers 5 cities in the Republic of Croatia that were covered by the war and died, Beli Manastir, Darda, as one whole, Benkovac, Knin, Petrinja and Vukovar, received a total of 120m euros from the two EU operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, operational programme of efficiency and human potential for the period 2014-2020. Every little bit more than 20 million euros. According to our knowledge, for reducing social inequality and exclusion from poverty and improving infrastructure, very little funds have been spent so far, the city of Vukovar has so far been paid about 16 million kn, so about 10% of the total amount available to them, the city of Petrinja is about 10 million kuna, so less than 10% of the total amount. The city of Knin and the city of Benkovac is even worse than a million kunas each. We try to ensure in different ways that water can be repaired, that the roads are fixed, that young people and those who returned there, whether Croats or Serbs are not leaving, and the money that has been available since 2014 and 2015, these cities are not being used. What does the Ministry think the Government is going to do to change such a situation? If assistance is needed for these cities, how is this assistance planned to increase the use of funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101871	Thank you. Before the Minister answers, just let me welcome the students of the Prelog class who are with us, welcome. ... Here you go, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101872	The Honorable President of HS, respected parliamentary representatives, respected Prime Minister, members of the Government, honourable Pupovac thank you for your, therefore, question, as you yourself said in our operational programme of competitiveness cohesion there are funds for the war affected areas, for the 5, therefore, cities chosen during this financial period, are Knin, Benkovac, Petrinja, Vukovar, Beli Manastir with the municipality of Darda. Of course, of course, given the delay in the entire financial perspectives at all, we have established a system, therefore, which refers to integrated physical economic regeneration programmes of small cities in the war affected areas, the results are not impressive so far. However, our Ministry, the management of assisted areas shared with all cities through intervention plans, has done everything possible to make these tenders available in some way as soon as possible. I would especially point out the funds that are related to the economy, in each city we have defined with each individual, therefore, city or municipality in which these funds can be channelled as soon as possible to the end-users in a way. And I must admit that, after, of course, changes in government at local level, there have been certain requests for changes in these intervention plans, which we do not want to agree on, of course, because we want in these areas, first of all, through these resources available, that is almost a billion, therefore, kuna funds going into these areas to which, as best possible way, they are exploited. What we have done, the Department of Supported Areas together with all cities maintains intensive, therefore, meetings and I think that by the end of this year we will certainly have a significant one, I am telling you, when I talk about small cities, even more, since this is a very good principle, practically direct allocation of funds, we have made a decision according to, therefore, a map of poverty done by the World Bank for us, that, in accordance with all the conditions that we are doing this for another 10 new small cities in the war affected areas, which will surely receive funds either by changing the operational programme or in the next period, but I want to have prepared projects on the ground, except for those funds that we invest through the Croatian budget for assisted areas, I think this is a good path. The results can always be even better and faster. However, in this area of the entire chain, where our Ministry and Local Unit are also involved, it is necessary to ensure conditions or preconditions for all of our joint work to be done on time, not only in this programme, but in general when EU funds are at stake. We can give you detailed information when we talk about these five, so small towns, what is the current situation and what we expect by the end of this year. In all competitions relating to social, economic, social infrastructure, but also to the part relating to the European Social Fund when we talk about human capacities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101873	Comrade Pupovac, here you go. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101874	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you, Madam Minister, for your response. According to what we've been able to spot, or according to what we've been able to see, there are two potential bottlenecks. One is the Ministry, it took the Ministry a year to bring in the programme from 2014 to deliver it in February 2015. From 2015 to 2016, it was intended to adopt a programme for the City of Knin, which allegedly had the best prepared programme, and for all others in 2017. The second is obviously a programme within the cities themselves and their capacity to withdraw such funds. Therefore, it is obvious that it is necessary within the Ministry itself and obviously that it is necessary within these units of local self-government, we assume that other units of local self-government create stronger capacities, better preparation for the usability of such funds. And you and I know that these cities have been chosen as pilot areas for these two programmes, social inclusions and cohesion, and if we show on these programmes that we are unable to do this job, for the next period we will find it difficult to have an argument that the other cities, from Ilock to the east, to Gračac or Obrovca in the south, will have a hard chance to get these cities to get what these five cities get. And that is why it is necessary to do everything to make use of these funds, especially because many of these people are losing the population because there are no jobs, they are losing the population because there are no elementary assumptions for life, such as the restoration of the water supply and the recovery of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101875	Let's go to the second question, it is a respected colleague of Grozdana Peric, who is asked by the minister of administration, Lovri Kuštević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101876	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, dear colleagues, here I refer the question to Mr Kustevic, Minister of Administration. In fact, we are all aware that EU funds are very important for development in all areas of society. in the half of the term of office of this Government, it is certainly necessary to draw the line and see what has been done and what is more done, and therefore, in relation to the Ministry of Administration itself, which has withdrawn 11% of the funds provided for by the European Union, I would ask the Minister to actually give one cut and to show us what has been done, because the public administration is very important to all of us and to the citizens and only to function on the whole society, so here I am asking the Minister to tell us what has been done and what will be done to improve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101877	I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101878	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow ministers and ministers, co-workers and fellow parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, Madam MPs, thank you for asking the question. Well, as we know, the priorities of this government are just the withdrawal of EU funds, and there they are seen at the level of the entire government significant steps, improvements compared to the previous period, but you will get reports from my colleagues and colleagues. The Ministry of Management is not, by its structure, an investment ministry, not a ministry that implements large projects, for example. Like my colleague Oleg Butkovic's ministry, we don't build roads, bridges as successfully as he builds, but our ministry has projects from which we can withdraw funds from the European Union. Unfortunately, I must conclude that by coming to the head of the ministry, a year and a half ago, we at the Ministry of Administration did not have a single project that relied on EU funds. Here today we already have 14 projects that we are actively implementing, some of which we have already agreed to arrange, here I can point out that we have already agreed on a Quality Project in the public administration worth 40.5 million kuna, it has been agreed in the course of tendering for the achievement of the project. There is a project to develop a competence framework for public administration employees worth 13 million kunas, also already agreed and began its realization. Then they can highlight the digitisation projects that are strong for the development of public administration. There is an e-tax project worth 50.5 million kunas also agreed and is expected to call the competition soon. Here, Mr. Maras, maybe you can take the microphone. [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, just a little minister..]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101879	I'm asking you to behave yourself. This isn't right, and I'm asking you to stick to some order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101880	So there's still e-business worth 50 million kunas also agreed and also in realisation. We have yet to negotiate projects that are total value with these over 900 million kunas one part of these projects will be agreed by the end of this year, and the other part in January and February next year. There are e-print projects, e-signature, e-indebts, then the establishment of a Centre of shared services, e-inscriptions, etc., etc. I would just point out that this digitisation that is really an important prerequisite for the development of public administration is going in two directions. The first direction is to digitise business processes in the public administration, and here I mean state administration, local and regional self-government, and then digitise communication towards citizens and business entities. Thanks to these projects that we have agreed here over 200 million kunas, and in the next few months we will contract a total of 800 million kunas we have certainly contributed to the withdrawal of the European Funds. These results will be seen as I said early next year, but this is not only the purpose of withdrawing funds from the European Funds, the purpose is to fix the processes in the public administration, raise the quality of the service of the state, not only the state but the local and central states. Here I thank you for this question, thank you for your interest, and I will be pleased to present all this together in one opportunity, and I believe that all of this will contribute together to better communication between Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs and craftsmen with the state and help faster, cheaper and more transparent business processes carried out by public authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101881	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101882	... and direct effects and results that will be measurable during this period. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101883	Now I would like to ask Agent Tomislav Klaric to ask Minister of Tourism Garia Cappellio. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101884	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, we have witnessed this summer with numerous and media inscriptions but also with information from the public that has been presented on the weaker tourist season for the less arrival of tourists in the Republic of Croatia, what are the concrete results of how this will affect revenues in view of the data that you have in the ministry?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101885	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101886	Dear President, Madam Representatives and Representatives, Mr. Klaric, so here, of course, during the summer, especially at 7.8 months when a imbalance may come from 1-2% then it is seen as once a long time ago as tourism that tourism is 7 and 8 months. However, Croatian tourism in the last 2-3 years has been going in a completely different direction, what we have always sought is that we have a strong pre- and sub-season and that the peak of the tourist season itself is something that is normal, let's call it that and that there is no room for growth anymore, because there are not enough beds to ask for it. In addition, the results themselves may answer that at this point for the first so to this day we count 6% more tourists and about 4% more overnight stays. So, we've achieved, by the end of the year we're going to achieve about 19.5 million overnight stays and over 106 million overnights and 19.5 million arrivals of tourists, so these results definitely indicate that Croatian tourism has a different course to extend throughout the year and that we're exampled working on the continent, let's say we have 11% more right now throughout the year. That at certain times as in 5, and now even at 10, 11 months, we had an increase of more than 20%, that no county has dropped tourist arrivals and overnights, therefore it is evidence that Croatia's tourism definitely records better data. And as for the revenues themselves, this year we will definitely have, by far, the best of revenue, which will be around 12 billion euros in revenue, so an increase of around 10% of income at last year's level. It is also very important to say that other than income growth and investment. This year we had about a billion euros of investment in the Republic of Croatia, at 4.5 stars, so hotels up to 50 new hotels were restored or newly built. We expect the same thing next year, we expect about a billion and 100 million new investments, the euro investment in Croatian tourism, mostly again in hotels, the most categories of 4 and 5 stars. Which means if we add thanks to these new laws that the Government and the Parliament have passed, so in tourism and in health tourism, in health care we will have an increase in investments of around 350 million and in health tourism. So next year, we can say that compared to the last two years, the growth of tourism investment will be over 55%, which is one huge step and of course which encourages further employment and the possibility of developing the entire economy. It is also important to have this latest visit by the Prime Minister and the members of the Government in China where we will have the announcements of tourism, so Croatia and China, where we expect to grow more than 50,000 new Chinese tourists from this year and definitely open a new market which, apart from the markets already known to us, Germany, Austria, Slovenia and Italy, will have a huge growth of tourists from those countries by opening offices opened by the prime minister, so 10 days ago and soon the opening of offices in the United States in Los Angeles and Korea, we hope that these markets will make up for maybe if there is a possible decline of tourists from this European market but at the announcement of the London fair a few days ago we expect a growth of tourists at 5 to 6%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101887	It's obvious. Here's your colleague, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101888	Dear Mr. Minister, I thank you for your comprehensive and concrete response. And I think that in this very way, the presentation of concrete data, the fact is that we can only deny all those who persistently misinformation, invented news, are trying to diminish the work of this government, but ultimately, the successes that are recorded in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Keep it up and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101889	Let's move on. Representative Davor Bernardic, asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101890	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, this year we witnessed numerous affairs, in some of them, many of them involved many of your closest associates, although you claimed you knew nothing, it was later not true, you knew everything and you were well informed, you were even directly involved in some of the affairs. I will remind you, the BORG affair, the SMS affair, the HOTMAIL affair, the elite prostitution affair, the Uljanik affair, the hand-to-hand and mandate affair in the Assembly, that I do not list any further because all of this was reported in detail by the Croatian media. Citizens lose confidence in the country's institutions when they see that nothing is happening in the context of the processing of those responsible in these affairs. And so my question is for you, do you know where your chief attorney is? Does it work, does it come to work? Answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101891	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101892	Thank you very much, Mr Bernardić, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. You've listed a lot of things here in your tirads about how you're citing the affair and you said that I'm involved in them, right, in the SMS affair I was also the subject of fabricating fake SMSs so it's one of the tasks of both the police and the state's attorney to discover them. As far as your weight is concerned about buying a mandate, she's not untrue, she's pathetic. So, the people in this section of the assembly obviously deeply dissatisfied with your work, your direction in which the SDP works are leaving your party. And I think these people, in the way they communicate, they go with their will and demonstrate dissatisfaction with you. The choice of where these people with their, as you know, foundation of our Constitution and the law with an irrevocable mandate will be their business. None of these people came to HDZ, none of them. So your thesis where you want to amalgam your own problems that some of our negative elements are simply incorrect and pathetic. And you know it very well, your colleagues know it, which is why they're leaving. And I would honestly advise you as the leader of the ruling party and you as the nominal chief still the main opposition party to work a little bit on consolidation. It is in our interest to have a strong opposition in the form of an SDP, not to have one of the ruins that you look at and watch your members and that is reflected in the ratings. Look at the difference in which you want the survey and I see that you even think it's a state survey, the polls that I know in Croatian political life have been going on for the past three decades are constantly from the same and constantly more or less about the same. So all these statements of yours seem very inconclusive to me and yours between the lines of ignorance of the fundamental principles of division of power is amazing, it's literally amazing. You're asking me where your state's attorney is. You know when someone as head of the opposition, someone who has a mandate from the people says something like that, then you send a very bad message to the Croatian public, you send a very bad message to young people, you send a very bad message to those who may not be lawyers or who are not engaged in institutional, political and constitutional issues, and they understand whose role it is and who it is doing. Perhaps you're used to it, perhaps at the time of your majority, your government, my predecessor from your government perceived the state's attorney at the time as my own, I'm not perceiving anyone as my own, 'who has anything to do with the judicial system, these are people, professionals, who know their jobs, who have their own responsibility, work legally, professionally based on what knowledge and information these bodies need and can acquire, and accordingly, to make their decisions and their actions. It would be good for you to contribute to the culture of political debate, at the head of the government's division, understanding the work and independence of judicial institutions that are both independent and independent in their work, and that is why it is not good for you to insinuate such a thing, especially because it is about a man who is removed from that system, professional. I didn't even know the gentleman until a few days ago before he became a state's attorney. And that's your point, and take care of it. It's not good for you to say what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101893	Thank you. Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101894	Thank you very much for your advice, but I'm going to have to remind you that it is you who removed the Attorney General Dinko Cvitan, who is now dating three bodyguards and appointed a new chief state attorney, Mr. Jelenic. That's exactly what you did. As for the ratings, if you're so sure you're so strong, you're so strong, then why are you buying hands in the Parliament? Why you're a coward and why don't you call an early election, that's my question to you. And don't underestimate the citizens of this country, it's one thing to be unsatisfactory, and the other to change your uniform, go raise your hand to the HDZ government, don't underestimate people, because you think people are so naive that you can lie to them at all times, paint them and rob them. And that's something you can't do, if you can sell that story to your members and members, you can't sell it to all the citizens of this country. As for the rasula, there is a very clear situation in Croatia today. With your proposal to amend the tax law, you raise your salary to yourself and the richest, and you call investors in Croatia because there is a cheap workforce here. With your so-called pension reform, you want citizens to work longer and harder living in retirement, there is nothing left of education reform, except for the failed experiment on children, oil workers and 3. Maya's on the road because they don't know if she'll work tomorrow, if she'll be out of a job. People are dying because the ambulance can't come. Citizens are waiting for specialist examinations, some are not waiting for them. The DORH leaks classified information, the papers are lost, from the entire intelligence system, released, that's what this is about. At the same time, more than 500 million kunas were extracted from Agrokor, and nothing, and therefore people, Mr Plenkovic, are mass evicting from Croatia because of injustice, nepotism, corruption and crime. And in the mandate of your government, over 130,000 people have left our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101895	Thank you. Thank you. Let's move on. The fifth is MP Veljko Kajtazi, who is asking Predrag Štromar, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101897	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers and respected colleagues. I would like to address my representative's question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr. Stromar. Based on the Commission's decision to follow the National Strategy for Roma and in accordance with the Law on Legalisation of Objects, we have jointly provided funds in the current year and launched final steps to legalise the facilities in 21 locations where the facilities of the Roma community are located. In collaboration with local self-government units, this process is being brought to an end by which the Roma in the 21st settlement have been given solutions, confirming the legality of their facilities. This therefore applies only to the facilities covered by the footage by 2011, a question I want to ask and in the context that there is still not one, nor was there a project of living care for Roma. What will happen to those who built their facilities after 2011? And with those who need to build housing today? How do you come from the environment where this problem is expressed, what are you planning to do about it? Will it be possible for those who built the buildings after 2011, in any way, to legalise their facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101898	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101899	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentarians, esteemed Mr. Keatazi, Parliamentarian. Yes, you are a witness yourself, and it is evident from your question, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and with some other means, we invested a lot of funds together in late '17, and in 2018, to resolve the legalization of those buildings that are located in the Roma settlement. Here I must thank all the mayors and mayors of the municipalities, cities, the Roma community and you, that we were able to achieve this project together. An enormous amount of effort has been made, and as far as the department of construction and spatial planning is concerned, we've already solved all the funds, two months before the end of this year. We did everything before we planned. But we must protect the territory of the Republic of Croatia, there is a lot of devastion, and we must not allow construction in those areas where it is not allowed. I appeal to you now, to inform everyone, that you cannot build a building unless there is a solution to the state of play. However, we are aware of the building up in the future will be built and there is a possibility through the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, to provide funds for the development of major projects, this is the main document, and then the payment of municipal contribution and water contribution, so that we can actually do future buildings that are legal. We are aware of extremism, not only in Croatia, but also in Europe, we must protect our national minorities, we must be sensitive to everyone and to the Roma, I am sure that we will find again for this problem a common way, how we will protect the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so that we will no longer destroy it without helping the Roma community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101900	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101901	Dear President, thank you for your response. But I can't be satisfied until you announce a concrete recovery action plan, situations in Roma settlements, especially in Međimurje, which is expanding. So, it's not the Roma's special status that I'm asking you to accept the reality of the situation on the ground, and to give up insisting on the hard implementation of the law, because it's really additional humanitarian problems that we're not going to solve. Please take a certain... and to bring integration plans for these areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we continue to ignore the problem, the entire protest of legalization, in... It's going to be torn down, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101902	Let's go to question no. 6 MP Gordan Maras, the question asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101903	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, here's a question for you, and I would like to warn you in advance that you are not underestimating Croatian citizens and giving sincere answers, not with a high one, but as the right diameter would give it. And my question goes towards a symbiosis on the Croatian political scene we see every day, which is the symbiosis of Andrej Plenkovic and Milan Bandic. That is one, I would say, very close cooperation, where on the one hand, the mayor of Zagreb provides Mr. Andrej Plenkovic with a large variety of airmen. On the other hand, Andrej Plenkovic provides a lot of things to Mr Milan Bandic, and we also saw yesterday that he also provides most of the city's City Assembly of Zagreb, where he is the most recent example of spending public budget money on political and other stakeholders. I can tell you here that Croatian citizens are disgusted by the Croatian political system, precisely because of what is done, that people are being bought, that services are being offered, look at the Club of Representatives Milan Bandic, which has grown by 11 MPs. Hundreds of thousands of kunas of Zagreb taxpayers have been spent on picociades, books in some cities, etc. so that you, Mr. President, would have a comfortable majority and that we would be a diameter. What interests me is that you, Mr. Prime Minister, are proud of your partner Milan Bandic and this symbiosis that polluted the Croatian political scene? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101904	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101905	Dear Representative Maras, it seems to me that you are a little frustrated and burdened, you are now two times in a row in exactly two months. You're talking about one topic in the wrong place. I listened the other day to the president of Mr Mikulić's city council, who would be happy if you were a representative in the city assembly, so that all this cumulative effort, where you want to say something to Mayor Bandic, has a chance to say directly. You do not have to speak to me, because for the second time you are burdening the Croatian Parliament with a topic relating to our largest unit of local self-government, which is the City of Zagreb, I understand that you have recently become the first SDP man in the City of Zagreb and that you want something. But it's not the time. This is not the time. When someone loses the election both national and local, when there is no solution, when the party literally melts, disintegrates, your colleagues demand that your question, such an answer deserves Mr. Maras, it is very important that the public understands that you have the wrong address and the wrong place. Twice. You usually say not twice the same thing, I see you didn't adopt it, so we have to do it all over again. You, through your representatives in the city hall, have a nice articulation of all questions regarding the functioning of the City of Zagreb when the time comes. Here, Mr. Mikulić announced that he would call a session of the City Assembly, so there you will have a proposal for the budget of the City of Zagreb for 2019 and there you are talking about it. As for the same illusion your party president spoke of earlier, I repeat, once again, one more person is leaving you. You have there, what, it's all up to you, or how that slogan is, something like that, so it's up to you, it's not up to us. If they're leaving you, it's up to you, not to us, you have to accept it. I'm sorry, I said, I'd really like it if we could play some serious game, some here, basketball hack that can be gall, but it can't, now it's 12 different, it's going to be almost double growth. That's our problem, not ours. You've got to laugh, Gordan. That's it. So you have a problem, not us, nice second time tell your colleagues, put them in charge, what to ask the mayor at the town hall session, not in the Croatian Parliament. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101906	Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101907	Thank you very much. Nothing is closed, get ready already, for 3 times I'll ask the same question, because until I get an answer and you find it funny but it's not funny to Croatian citizens, Mr. Plenkovic, because you're also as much as I remember having it credible. Is it credible that of the original ones who voted for you to become prime minister there are 70 or 71 of them and that these others who then did not want you as prime minister are now voting for you. And with respect to miracles, everyone is tied or almost everyone is tied to Milan Bandic. Is that credible? Are you credible? Is it irrelevant to you who voted for whom and how Croatian citizens voted, you don't care. As counterpart Bačić says, in the book Martine Dalic, the government all suffers in power is allowed. So on this side, Mr. Prime Minister, while you're acting like this, it's normal for people to leave, while it's funny for you to buy votes in public money, while you tell Minister Bozinovic to look away from the right things he should look at and now we see in the city of Zagreb that Mayor Bandic will have to politically tear up 3 MPs so that he doesn't have a majority in the City Assembly to keep Mikulic the president of the City Assembly, so HDZ is in the interest. And on that side instead of saying, we won't support political trade, you'll be pretending ha ha, it's funny everything, I'll agree to anything. That's not right. And let me tell you what that symbiosis between you and Milan Bandic reminds me of, like, single cancer and seasaw. The male cancer crawls into the house because his back has been discovered, you are quite lonely in HDZ and Milan Bandić is a seasaw who bites around with his, with his tentacles and provides him with a peaceful life and most of the Croatian Parliament and the City Assembly. This is the symbiosis that exists between you and Milan Bandic, single and seasaw cancer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101908	Thank you. Let's move on. Comrade Maras, please, colleague Maras, colleague Maras, you've finished 10 seconds more and sit down. [[And it's common for them to come from...]] Question No. 7. Representative Tulio Demetlika sets up Darko Horvato, Minister of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101910	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and Minister. I'm asking Minister Horvat about getting a connection to the power grid for both natural and legal persons in the Istrian County. Since last year, since the reorganisation of distribution system operators, there has been a centralisation of certain jobs with a significant reduction in the number of employees. That's why today we have a situation where investors, i.e. our citizens who want to build, whether housing or economic facilities are facing bureaucratic barricades. Namely, after the handover by the investor, the requirements for the electrical consent of supply and payment of the connection and for the larger consumers, investors are obliged and made, i.e. pay special elaborate investors are waiting for the execution of the 3 to 6-month connection itself, and for larger facilities i.e. for complex connections and much longer. We are constantly listening, especially by the ruling to adopt measures that encourage economic growth, which shorten the deadlines for the outcome of the necessary permits, but I am curious whether this particular example encourages or prevents the development of the economy. We warned in time that in Istria, as in the region where the most invested and built, whether it is the tourism sector, economy or housing building, that this is exactly the kind of reform, such a reorganisation will slow down and slow down development. Unfortunately, we were right. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we expect you as a minister whose responsibility is HEP and as a person with a high working experience in HEP to take appropriate measures to deal with this problem urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101911	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101912	Thank you, Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow ministers. So I somehow have a feeling that this question should have been referred to fellow Coric whose portfolio is energy but not connected to administrative problems barriers or we can call them today any way, I will try to give you some parameters, or answer if you are not satisfied, and I can also give you written information. You listen through the media and here in the last two years you are aware of the fact that only through tax reform has the Croatian economy charged about 6.5 billion kuna. Also in another action plan that has torn down administrative barriers over the past 2 years, and very soon as the Ministry of Economy before the Government, we will come up with a proposal for an administrative discharge plan for 2019, so we are cumulatively predicting that in these three action plans, the Croatian economy will be further charged by around 2.5 billion kuna. So over the past 6 months, we have analyzed 939 regulations, analyzed 3 thousand and 76 administrative obligations, talked to 317 real-sector entrepreneurs, and we will propose to the government an action plan within which we will remove 320 such administrative barriers for what we appreciate and through the standard cost model we calculated that in 2019 alone we will charge the Croatian economy with an additional 640 million kuna. As for your proposal, therefore, by looking at little about the procedure within HEP, the distribution or transmission system operator in the area where you live, an operator of the distribution system on average makes about 2,000 and 700 connections, they have a simpler deadline on the low voltage network on average of 26 days, all of them, let's call them, bigger, much more time and days wasted on the implementation of public procurement and the resolution of property rights, than these procedures happen and are conducted within HEP. And I will remind you that in the pre-accession negotiations and the moment we entered full EU membership, among the first to close the 15 energy area, we have brought the full legislative framework into line with the EU acquis, and the general conditions for the supply of electricity or other sublegal acts currently in force are part of the third energy package, given that, as far as I have information, the fourth energy package, or as it will already be called, is expected in the spring of 2019. I am sure that this fourth energy package, given that you are liberalising the electricity market, will also liberalise the accession methodology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101913	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101914	I thank Mr. Minister for your answer, but I will look back on that introduction of yours. I can only ask the Minister a question once, and I believe that you as Ministers and Ministers have good cooperation and that you communicate. The goal was to reduce the administrative barriers to the development of the economy, and you are in charge of the development of the economy. And within the government, you solve how you're going to deal with HEP, I've pointed out what the problem is. And that's why I support removing those barriers. However, I will not agree with you on this average that you said because when there was a reorganisation in the HEP itself regarding ODS, then most likely territory, population number, and no number of connections were taken. I will remind you that in this year from 1.1 to 30.9 more than 6,000 connections have been made in Istria in 9 months, while at the same time waiting for complex connections today 130 and some connection, that only 61 thirds have been realized in this year. That means we're slow and we're stopping development. By stopping development, we all lose, we lose the economy, we lose jobs, we lose the state budget, we lose the local product, we simply all lose, and then the question arises, since the ODS is carrying out the activities of the distribution of electricity for the entire Republic of Croatia and I have a monopoly. And you know very well that HEP behaves as a state in the country and that everyone in that country should have the same conditions, and we do not have the same conditions because in other parts of the Republic of Croatia it is different and much faster to get the electrical consent and performance of the connection itself. So I'm asking the question at the end of Mr. Minister, is Istra deliberately holding back, did you take us to the teeth, are you punishing us with it? I expect you and Mr. Coric to take such measures right now that the suspicion is removed and that the development of the economy in Istria be in the same conditions as in the rest of the Republic of Croatia. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101915	Now Martha Luc-Polanc will ask Tomislav Tolusic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101916	Thank you. My question, therefore, goes to Minister Tolusic, which refers to the wood mass quotas that Croatian forests must provide for wood processors. Namely, Minister, it seems to me, in your term of office that you are quite interested in this issue and I have noticed in the last two years, you have had several meetings with wood growers related to those quotas and your statements after these meetings I will quote them a few. During 2017 after the meeting, you said: We adopted practically everything the wood industry asked for and I expect that the new allocation of wood mass quotas will be fairer. During 2018 you again declare: I am glad that wood growers sat down and designed a transparent model of the division of wood mass. We provided small producers with 20% more wood mass, and we allocated furniture manufacturers to a special class to provide them with additional raw materials for the production of the final product. And another statement: we did everything we could to accept the wood industry's proposals. My question to the Minister is specifically: Who is mastering Croatian forests and who determines the quotas of wood mass, does this make the profession in Croatian forests, engineers or do you do so in agreement with wood growers? And my second question is: What is the state's interest in giving national wealth, in particular, the best quality tree, past the competition, exclusively through quotas with rebates to as much as 25%, to foreign wood growers who semi-produce exports outside and make multiple profits while at the same time working people for a minimumer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101917	Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101918	Thank you. First of all, welcome to the president of HS, Mr. Prime Minister, fellow ministers and ministers, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, thank you for asking your question. First of all, I would point out that Croatian forests are managed by Croatian forests. Otherwise, the minister, as well as Minister Romic, Minister Jakovina and all the other ministers are the Society's Assembly and we are definitely interested in knowing how and how the state-owned company, which we are the Assembly, how it manages and how it works. Otherwise, to translate into trees, annual Croatian forests cut about 6 million trees, crews of about 9 and a half million young people plus more forest seeds, means much more is planted than they are cut down. For the first time in the past year, I believe that we should help the Croatian wood industry and speak falsely, and if you need information accurate, come to the Croatian woods and the Ministry, meaning 370 purchasers of logs and 191 buyers of spatial wood, each of these customers is operating and working in the Republic of Croatia, not in Italy, not in Germany, not in France, not in Turkey, but in the Republic of Croatia. So, societies owned by people who are here in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens, who employ people here in the Republic of Croatia and a full state budget, the budget of local units right out of their jobs. We quotas agreed with the wood industry, in agreement with the wood industry, in this way we want to help the Croatian wooden industry, I think it's only smart, class 8, means that the table, the chair, specifically, means the biggest final that could be having extra rebates, I think that you agree with such companies should also have additional discounts by Croatian forests and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in all of this. Therefore, in the forests, you operate transparently, each of these contracts, you have every document on the Croatian Forests website, which, unlike the previous mandates, was not, whatever you want to see, and the only problem is that we give the tree to those companies that justify their accounts, and not as it was before by grandmothers and uncles, without a letter of understanding and non-transparent. No annex contract was signed during my term, everything was delivered properly, everything is publicly available, and I invite you if you are interested in any document, come and check, but without a fairing bill wood will not be obtained, and the needs are unfortunately or fortunately much greater than what Croatian forests can deliver to wood growers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101919	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101920	Minister, I referred this question to you for saying yourself that you are increasing the quotas, together with representatives of the woodworking association headed by Damir Smiljanic when you met you said you were increasing the wood mass quotas. There you are completely contrary to this statement of yours that it is more planted and less cut, if you, on forest economic grounds, have prescribed in advance 20 years how much wood mass will be cut and now you logically explain to me how it is possible for you to raise quotas and to plant less or less. Also today, sales in the Croatian forests are such that the highest quality wood mass is sold by contract in quotas and that the price of the highest quality wood mass has dropped in a way that it is now 30-70% lower than that price that is realised for the same tree in the European Union. So I also don't accept this theory of yours that it's about protecting production and that it's about supporting those companies that produce furniture, chairs, etc. I can accept that, however, you have raised quotas to companies that produce mostly parquet, which is the lowest processing of the final product. For example, you gave 50% of the larger quota to Pan parquet, and it happens to be the owner and head of the woodworking association that you are meeting with and that is Mr. Damir Smiljanić, then there is Marijan Vukelić 40% more, there is Galekovic group 32% more raised their quotas, this is about the production of parquet. You can't justify your decision to encourage industrial production because we're witnessing that industrial production falls from month to month, here this month is compared to last month industrial production Fall by 1.6%. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101921	Let's move on now, and it's time for a respected colleague, Ivan Misic, to ask Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101922	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honors Prime Minister and the Honorable Minister, I would like to refer my question to Minister Butkovic. Of course because I come from Slavonia to be suffered by the railway Zagreb – Vinkovci. For years I've been serving this railroad, and all the businessmen, students, people living in Slavonia, I've experienced a lot of things where I could spend half an hour talking about how it all looks, it's not my question. The question is Minister, when and how long do you plan to finish the railway Zagreb – Vinkovci that we have at least 130 km average that can come. This government was almost, as far as I know in China so they saw 300 going, and we still drive 30 towards Vinkovci in some parts, I think it's embarrassing and otherwise our railways in Croatia are totally not, not neglected, it's just embarrassing to sit on our trains that we can freely declare the museum value of certain wagons that drive towards Slavonia or down the east and I think that this railroad is quite, quite priority. Furthermore, as far as I know, this railroad towards Hungary is leading and already running for a year, so that performers who are late from either Croatia or the world can no longer compete in other public competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101923	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101924	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. MP at the moment HZ infrastructure is implementing a whole series of new railways and reconstruction projects because the investment cycle after the construction of the highway is slowly and safely heading towards the railway, it is a major infrastructure project that is of high value and it is certain that Croatia cannot restore all these railways from the state budget and cannot make them all. This is why most of these projects are funded from the European Union funds, and we have left the possibility in the new Law on Railways that certain shares of railways, railways, can also be built through concessions. Generally, the investments in the railway are carried out in two main directions today, I would say the corridor, one is the Mediterranean that connects Rijeka with Budapest, and in this sense you have mentioned this project Long Village – Križevci, and the competition is called for the continuation of that stock, which is provided with the funding of EUR 300 million to the Hungarian border, and in the term of office of this Government, more precisely the following year and the beginning of 2020, we expect works on the railway and towards Rijeka. This former 10 corridor that interests you the most, as well as all that goes from eating from the west to the east that goes through Vinkovac, is one of the shares on which some of the shares have already been made and have been made specifically Long Selo - Novska and Novska - Okucani, i.e. Novska - Okucani and Vinkovci - Tovarnik and for the other large two shares that are the longest of Zagreb to Vinkovci – Long Selo – Novska and Okučani – Vinkovci, the HZ infrastructure provided all the funds through the EU funds for study and project documentation. The total value of the two shares is estimated at 800m to 900m euros somewhere. And what I can tell you right now is that we're making documentation and we're preparing it for the next operational program. The money in the EU for rail projects is now available, will be in the next operational programme, so here we are with the Mediterranean corridor and the former 10th of all those shares are being prepared for the next operational programme. Unfortunately, what I have to point out, there was no record. It's a comprehensive documentation that needs to be prepared, it's studies, it's idea solutions, location permits, major projects, etc., it's all long-term processes but here, in cooperation with other ministries, we're also trying to get the issues that are like extensions, etc., issuing permits to speed up, so here's what I'm saying we're preparing for the next operational programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101925	Thank you. It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101926	Thank you. Minister Butkovic, I'm not going to say I'm not happy of course, but the question is how long it takes, you say, you need permission, you need this, it should be a priority. The railway cannot wait for a permit, the railway must have big investments in front of others and deal with that part of the building problem. I know this government has encountered a lot of problems, if I were to evaluate this government, if I were to say now how much you're worth, I'd give you a good positive assessment. I think we're doing good and doing good, but it's never good enough, we have to show that we're even better, responsible especially for the companies that perform and when the contracts are made, if that company hasn't met, that company can't have jobs anymore at the state level because it's not a serious company, no matter what it was, whether externally, whether Croatia. I thank you, and I hope that these 800 million investments will come after we threw 4 billion kunas into the Ulnik, literally thrown away, and it's not your fault, because all the governments have looked through their fingers so far, and that can't happen. The state must be responsible, more serious than an entrepreneur. Let's work out some local administrations and get them to work. And that's where I see this government is going too, and I hope if everything stays right, we're still going to raise one level in this country, which is the time after all. And in Slavonia a long time ago, let's give optimism to the railway that people can come quickly and show that we are interested, that Slavonia lives and the government is already with these projects, but the railway is important that we arrive in 2 hours, 2.5 hours as before the war, we are now going four hours. And that would be part of the government's responsibility to show Slavonia that we think and leave these people inside. And we still have a chance, and I think we're doing this seriously, and we just need to get it done a little bit more, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101927	I would now ask Representative Miranda Mrsic to ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101928	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Croatia is spreading its impatience and hatred for migrants who are deliberately spreading to false news by various populists and right-wings and are prone to media. Histeria went so far that recently one of Samobor's ladies saw other skin - colored workers calling the police. Histeria went so far that on RTL a citizen of Croatia who was originally from Ghana cried out, do not call the police when you see me on the street. Mr. Pernar's parliamentary representative admitted that his... spreading false news in Croatia about immigrants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I ask you, as Prime Minister, how many crimes have been committed in recent years by immigrants, how many rapes, muggings, cold weapons attacks, etc. Crimes? How many persons have requested asylum in the Republic of Croatia and how many asylums have been granted? How long will these people be afraid of those who sow fear in Croatia? And please, since the situation is what it is to go around these people together and send a clear message that there is no opposition for these situations and no position. I'm part of the opposition in the Parliament but in these situations there is no opposition, there is no position but there are responsible politicians and dangerous populists. Therefore, I ask you to answer these questions specifically and again I call you to visit these people together and send a clear message that Croatia is the country where they are welcome and that Croatia is a country that tolerates different qualities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101929	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101930	Thank you very much. Representative Mrsic, as far as this topic is concerned, it is primarily that one of the recent waves of creating some kind of hysteria, panic, drama in society in the context of illegal migrations which Croatia is witnessing as one of the countries on the so-called Eastern Mediterranean or Southeast European route. It is true that recently there have been cases that, seeing people, perhaps other skin colors in public transportation generated panic and practically falsely reported people. That's not good and that's bad. And I can't help but appeal, as Prime Minister, to politicians, to leaders of political parties, to the media, not to spread hysteria where it isn't and where it shouldn't be. We will talk about migration a little more extensively as one of the major European topics this afternoon when I present to you the European Council Reports that have been held lately, because this is a much wider topic than Croatia, you see that it has its own global dimensions. As far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we are very rational, discreet, responsible, we clearly share legal from illegal migration, activities that both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Demography, when it comes to asylum seekers, whether it is in Porin, whether it is in Kutina, whether it is some other form of accommodation, it is also trying to be done in accordance with Croatian regulations, and with the highest European and global standards. As for the number of crimes, in general when we look at crime in Croatia, it is in the descending path. Well, according to that, it's probably a small percentage that he probably has, I don't know this number of criminal acts committed by migrants, in any case they're not some more serious or threatening number compared to the total number of criminal acts committed in Croatia but being processed as well as other parts. As far as asylum requirements are concerned, he's in decline. We have recorded this year, it seems to me, somewhere around 6500 illegal migrations so far, quite certain that after tighter control of the green part of the border towards Serbia, the intensity of illegal migrations, and they are organised by smugglers who profit heavily in another's accident, has been transferred to this part of northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the border towards Karlovac, Licko-Senjska or Sisak-Moslavina County, and that is where Croatia is making enormous efforts with the daily work of 6500 border police officers. We will continue to clearly protect the border against illegal migration, and when it comes to legal migration or humanitarian approach, when it comes to people seeking asylum, we will act in accordance with both our and our European regulations, and by leading a responsible policy, eliminate hysteria, drama and panic that exists. But it's got to be a joint job, so if you want an opposition agent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101931	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101932	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm sorry you didn't answer my very clear call, so I'm gonna do it again. I invite you to go and visit these people personally and send a clear message that Croatia is the country where they are welcome. I'm sorry you didn't agree to this, and for not giving it a positive opinion, I hope you'll reconsider that move one more time. It is clear to every responsible citizen that there is a need to safeguard the border, but it is unacceptable for the government to tolerate the spread of impatience and not react to the intentional carrying out of untruths and the failure of the public, and that is what you have not done so far. I would especially invite the President of the Parliament and the Presidency here to clearly fence himself from the fall of MP Pernar, who was spreading false news of immigrants, and he admitted it, because I think that we sitting here are not the ones who have to do it and we have to do it. I also call on the government and the competent institutions not to allow the spread of untruths in the Croatian media space and the awakening of intolerance in society. I am part of the opposition and I will be part of the opposition, but this situation is a situation where there is no opposition and no position but there are responsible politicians and irresponsible populists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101933	Before we move on to the next question, please welcome the students and pupils of Stjepan Isic High School from Orahovica. Welcome. I would now ask representative Vlatko Kopic to ask Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101934	Dear Mr. Minister, we know that cancer is a leading public health problem in developing world countries, and we also know that the World Health Organization is expecting the incidence of mortality from malignant diseases in the next ten years, greater than it has ever been before. Therefore, I think that the preparation of public health systems is more important than it has been in the present period of time. When we talk about the Republic of Croatia, it is known that the very occurrence of the mortality of malignant diseases is right behind the disease of the heart and blood vessels. I am particularly interested in whether the Ministry of Health, recognised this problem and which you have specifically taken steps in terms of drawing up a National Anticancer Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101935	Thank you. Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101936	Dear Mr. Representative, Dr. Kopić, thank you very much for asking. In fact, malignancies are a growing problem of entire medicine or living generations, where from year to year, around the world, there is an increase in incidence, and unfortunately, unorthodox mortality from malignancies. This trend, unfortunately Croatia also fits somewhere, where the number of deaths from malignant diseases is at an annual level at 15000, and this is what this government recognized as one of the most serious problems we have, and we have many in the health system. On this trail a year ago we started working on the program, gathered about 100 of Croatia's best experts dealing with epidemiology,.../incomprehensible/... in oncology and, of course, with treatment and treatment of malignant diseases. In doing so, we asked a number of friends from the world primarily from Europe and America to help us create a review in suggestions that we could put into our National Cancer Programme. The program is made up, now it is at the consultation in professional circles, and it goes into public consultation, and the first public presentation we will have in 10 days in Split, where we will invite the entire nation to engage in this problem with possible criticisms, suggestions as we have asked friends from the world who are already giving us suggestions, suggestions that we would do. So this is about the next one, not just dealing with treatment, which is a big problem, a big problem, and if you want together, the very expensive thing about medicine is to treat malignant diseases. Here, among other things in the programme, we concentrate on risk factors, awareness of the population that all the factors in how much, many of which we can influence, where we can consciously avoid them or knowingly expose ourselves to them. On the other hand, genetic analyses are also predicted, in fact, there are people with certain records that they carry in their genes who are much more likely to get certain malignancies and if genetic testing is done in view of family history, it is highly likely that the tumor can be prevented or detected at the working stage when it is treatable. In particular, the emphasis in the programme is prevention programs that need to be more activated, although for several tumors we have preventive programs, we need to activate them more, and the introduction of new lung and prostate cancer programs is also envisaged, and of course we are having a problem with how to treat better. The main purpose is to identify the disease in which a large part of the programme is dedicated, and on the other hand, a detailed analysis of teams of excellence from several experts that will analyse each patient, develop a centre and bring to an equal position all patients regardless of whether they live near or not a large centre will have an equal chance. And I use the opportunity to invite all of you here to attend, and through you and others to participate in the criticism of the program that we've created.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101937	Thank you very much, now the respected representative Kopić will express his satisfaction or no satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101938	Well, I am pleased with the response given here, of course, especially when we talk about these preventive checks, for the first time we have certain results when we talk about the reduction in the number of patients of certain types of diseases precisely thanks to these preventive checks carried out by the Ministry of Health, with the fact that here, in particular, they can be satisfied with the aspect of what we know to be isolated for the treatment of malignancies right now, something which is very burdensome for hospital budgets. I'm sure this kind of step of yours, this kind of effort, will lead to the financial stability of the health system. Thank you very much and I commend you once again everything you're doing for.../incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101939	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected Ante Sanader to the Deputy Prime Minister and Agriculture Minister Mr Tomislav Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's my question to the esteemed Vice President, Mr. Tolusic. At the end of last year, there were heated discussions in our public on this draft of a multi-annual plan for managing small blue fish in the Adriatic, the European Commission has quite insisted on a draft regulation that completely changes the system of small blue fish management, which has been a bitter welcome to us and has sought these quotas annually for small blue fish and especially for heart and incun. It was a devastating influence that the most significant segment of fishing in Croatia, fishermen and our public fishing in this sense had a number of objections. You have managed to fight the delay in applying these quotas to small blue fish in the past year, I congratulate you on this move that is very important and dying to us, but surely our public and fishermen and the fishing public and people who are dealing with this area, people who are now interested in what is ahead of us and how the situation is going to develop and how you see and what you expect for tomorrow for this important, this important question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101941	The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101942	I would like to say that the last month is actually a month that is great for Croatian fishermen, first of all we have been granted by the European Commission to derogations for small swimmers according to the Mediterranean Regulation, and in fact there are our fishermen who are dealing with this way of hunting who have actually got the possibility of their survival not to work in breach, that they can catch on a real normal and correct and legal basis and this report since yesterday which has been accepted in the European Parliament concerning the multiannual management plan for small blue fish fishing where the European Parliament actually adopted what the Republic of Croatia has proposed, a great thank you to the Directorate of Fisheries of the Ministry of Agriculture, but also to our euro-parliators Mrs. Ružašić, Dubravki Šuci, Marijana Petri and others in this segment who have helped. The Commission wanted to introduce quotas for small blue fish that would mean literally the death of fishing in Croatia not only fishermen but also tuna growers and all others who are actually bound to small blue fish, and we actually beat their arguments with our arguments and proved that with the spatial time limits of fishing with the scientific monitoring of what we do we can actually do much more than with the mere introduction of quotas. The greatest burden has been borne here and the greatest thanks to them in all this, our fishermen, who in the last few years have understood the size of the problem and that they do not adhere to the rules that we prescribed in the European Parliament yesterday, this would not have been adopted. So all the positive indicators come first of all because of our fishermen, who adhere to the restrictions, which we have jointly negotiated. So in vain, all the papers we wrote or written by the reporters, if our fishermen don't stick to it. They stick to it and have a smaller catch, and less months and less days when they can hunt, but with it the recovering, little blue fish have more than it was in previous years and that actually means the future not today, for these fishermen who are hunting today, but I hope for their children and those who are dealing with fishing in the future. In this way, Croatian fishing has a good perspective, it has a secure future, we help through European funds, we invest serious money on an annual basis, our fishermen are satisfied, but as long as this is the policy of the fishermen themselves, they don't have to be afraid, there will be no quota, there will be these restrictions that we have introduced together with them. And in fact, another great thank you first of all to those who have listened to our appeals and realized that the future of their children is, in fact, exclusively their hands, not in the hands of the European Commission, the Ministry of... In any case, the situation is good, and it will be in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101943	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101944	Thank you for your response, you know, the anger has fed Dalmatia and saved in the old days, and that's too important for us, the fishermen know how to behave, because they realize that this is an important area for them, except their future and their existence, and they will still respect all the norms in that sense, but here, without your support and here are your representatives and all of your department's actions in the ministry, it would not have worked out. Because they could yell all they wanted and you know how many meetings and requests we've had, but I thank and appeal, and I also appeal for it to continue to be... to continue to support us and to do the same way you've done so far, to save us and to save that creed that is a symbol of Dalmatia and the Adriatic to stay and to be the fosterer of our fishermen, and also another brand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101945	Let's move on. Now it is up to a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic, who asked the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101946	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, Your Honors Minister and Minister, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister. Recently, our well-known consultation, which has years of experience in the use of EU funds, has shown its concern to you. In particular, it will be a question of whether you have, as Prime Minister, knowledge of projects that identify irregularities in the use of EU funds and relations. Often listening to your statements and ministers, we hear only 2 indicators, which is contracted projects, i.e., paid funds that are, however, never mentioned the issue of irregularities, we see somewhere... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that it is unpopular and politics to talk about it, however, the public interest is certain to determine not only how much these funds are, but also those who have implemented such projects, whose responsibility is there. The question is, in the end, I will say specifically, if there are amounts found, whether millions of adjustments in EU projects will eventually become a problem for the state budget, as we see most of the funds being spent through public authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101947	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101948	Thank you very much, Agent Panenic, as regards general data on absorption, it is true, of course, that you, as the former economy minister, have been informed that the total allocation for this financial perspective is 10.7 billion, that we, that we started 2 years ago, had 9% contracted, that we are now ministers of how many 60 and 59 with the ambition to be at 62, 3 by the end of the year to confirm all those accounts and all those procedures by which we will receive direct payment from the European budget at the end of the year or at the beginning of the next year. If there were projects on which there was a problem in preparation, there are performances and corrections. Unfortunately, there is. There are also in other countries, there are in Croatia. The responsibility of people for this is primarily for those who were competent to carry out these projects. We have seen this problem when we hold a number of meetings concerning, not only the regional development ministries and European funds, but also the enforcement bodies by all sides of different cohesion funds, i.e. structural funds, and have seen that in some cases, it is the basis of a revision that our agency, called ARPA, has different derogations. Somewhere those corrections are small, what's little is, say, below 15% somewhere they're bigger, more serious, and unfortunately, that's what's happening. The responsibility for this will be borne by those who have done so. If there's a responsibility somewhere that's also a criminal responsibility, it'll be responsible for it. Therefore, our goal as governments is to strengthen the structures and institutions, which implement the absorption of European funds and project management. We also want the supervisory authorities, which are that both the ministries and the body led by Mr. Petricks, therefore, the central funding and bargaining agency, help all users in advance to control up to the smallest details. We had a discussion about a project in Dubrovnik Neretva County and there was a question about the type of concrete used for a project, whether or not he could or could not. All these technical aspects must be raised to a higher level and therefore this first financial perspective and our overall institutional capacity still on the test. He's just like pre-accession funds. The funds are much higher, the responsibility is much higher, the story is decentralised, we have to build an institution, strengthen capacities at local level. You know that the decisions of earlier governments are the number of strategic projects in this financial perspective that you can't see, which is below ground is normal. You have agglomeration of a water utility economy for which neither you nor I know how much money has gone into the tube underground. Invisible. Fortunately there is a Pelješki bridge, so it will remain a monument to this first financial perspective in the most visible way possible. Many of these projects have remained invisible and this is one problem that we have at this stage, since this is all agreed earlier, we are unable to change, and we are able to fight for the principles in the next financial perspective that will go in favour of a Member State that has the least experience with the use of European structural investment funds, which is also the country which, unfortunately, has had the least experience in using pre-accession funds. And that's why we're like a system in the step-hunting phase. Those who have sinned should answer for this if there are criminal responsibilities, appropriate criminal charges will be filed. So that's the problem we have to solve, And Minister Zhalac seems to me, along with his associates, to be handling it quite vigorously. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101949	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101950	Here I expected really that in the answer will be, not only say that there are, is that everyone warns, but that it will also be clear and publish in fact who you were, right, it is the simplest, most transparent, therefore, you can never be wrong if you approach in such a way is there a responsibility, you increase the amounts, in fact, you spend everything that has been programmed in the previous time. Now there's a clean one where there's an increasing number of contracted funds, and there's also a growing amount of surveillance to be made. Well, in the end, the very number of people you've hired to work on EU programmes, which is somewhere around, about what I have learned, about a thousand and a half, I'm saying, do I know exactly that you've answered, I think this summer she's asked questions about how many people are working on the EU programme, she hasn't received an answer yet, I don't know, is there any obstacle? And how do we know about irregularities if we can't even find out the number of people who get by their decisions, what you've authorized your ministers who give them up to 30% more, I don't know if they were effective, they weren't effective. So there's a lot of questions that can be asked. But we see that from this rebalancing, the rebalancing proposal for 2018, the plan was much bigger than the execution, over 2 billion is actually smaller, and then the question is, where are these people? What they did if they don't implement the plans you set, in the end your failure will be through the unhappiness of the people you reward and hire. And looking now, perhaps there was, there was Minister Coric who asked where my shirt was? My colleagues estimated that it was much more effective for that shirt of mine to be given to you, so that you could keep a reminder of what you needed, and maybe for a year you'd get a reminder and that which corrections should be made. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101951	Thank you. Let's go to the 14th question, Representative Bozo Petrov, that question asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101952	President-in-Office of the Government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in 2016 a resolution establishing a Commission to monitor the implementation of transitional criteria in negotiating chapters 23 and 24 on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. According to the government's decision, the Committee is chaired by the foreign and European affairs minister who is in charge of calling the committee's meeting, must convene them at least 4 times a year. The Commission met twice in 2016, not once in 2017 or 2018. There is no government decision on the abolition of the commission on the website, and the minister next to you has publicly admitted that she has violated the government's decision. Prior to taking up office in the Croatian government, in the Committee on Croatian Monitoring of Chapter 23 for Serbia, Minister Pejcinovic Buric has been helping the Serbian government for years on a project of faster Serbian accession to the EU. Its prominent activities were just in chapter 23. Dear Mr Plenkovic, as you run the government, I do not believe that the minister will bear any responsibility even though she has admitted herself that for the second time, for two years, she has violated the government's decision. But my question to you is, has it occurred to you that the minister who is at the head of this committee might change his mind, to put Mr. Bear's defence minister, so that finally this commission is functioning, to finally be of assistance to the victims of the camp, they are important, they are neither Minister nor Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101953	Answer, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101954	Thank you very much, Representative Petrov, I see that you remember with the memory the times when you were part of the government or at least part of the ruling coalition, but these are Mr. Petrov's paces to pass and these will remain for a very long time. As for Serbia's negotiations with the EU, this body that was the basic then, so, at the time you were in government, was the Commission. What exists now, obviously, is that you do not take into account the argument made by the minister and the ministry, that the story was raised to a higher level. There is a regular, monthly, weekly, if co-ordination is needed for foreign and European affairs conducted by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which leads to the Government of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs and which closely and in detail monitors every and every single detail of any accession negotiations, and then those with Serbia. So, in order for something to be followed, it doesn't have to be through the commission that was founded then, it can also be through this form. The Republic of Croatia in all EU bodies, and there are several of them, above all, a working group of councils dealing with the area of Southeast Europe, articulates its views, communicates on any chapter that is either to be opened or already negotiated, because it is open, and in particular the criteria relating to Chapter 23, so to the judiciary and fundamental rights that are systemically, crucially, horizontally, and which will follow Serbia until the very end of accession negotiations. The issue of war crimes for the Croatian government, for the Croatian state, is a couple of excellent political issues that we raise at all times, in every opportunity and bilateral dialogue and talks on this issue at EU level. No one forgets him, no one puts him aside, on the contrary. Our goal is to process all war criminals, to process them, as you know, this topic causes frequent public comments, and when you look at where they've all been processed, they've been prosecuted under Croatian courts. As you know, there are specialized parts of the state's attorneys' offices and specialized parts of the courts at 4 county courts dealing with war crimes. Part of the process was prosecuted before The Hague war crimes tribunal committed in former SFRY territory, part of the process took place and before a specialised war crimes court in Serbia, there is communication between state lawyers, there is communication between the justice ministries. Police chiefs in the government's mandate have formed a special team for further investigation of war crimes specific to Vukovar and Ovcar. Therefore, everything that needs to be done whether it has an internal dimension, whether it has an external policy dimension, that it has a European dimension being done. There are no segments that this government or the competent authorities are not working on or taking over. And it's very important that the public knows. The fact that you're going to hunt whether it's happening through this or that body of coordination at the government level that question is subordinate. What is important is the substance, political will is important, engagement is important, a continuous commitment to Croatian national interests is important, and it is important to take constant care of the victims, the victims of Vukovar, the victims of Škabrnja. In a few days, we'll probably be in the memory column. And thus the Croatian government is doing everything in its power. Of course we understand frustration, if it's been 27 years since some crimes and some processes haven't been initiated. It can't be the responsibility of this government, it can't be the responsibility of the current institutions, but we can make up for what hasn't been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101955	Thank you. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101956	Your Honorary Prime Minister, I'm not interested in your monologues as well as your answers without answering by not knowing which time I'm listening. And I ask the President of the Parliament to warn Mr Plenkovic to teach the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and not to be nervous. Just before I give you your answers, someone should have advised you that at the moment you attack at ad-homine level you actually show your own uncertainty and paces to pass. And as for all of this, I'm not interested in your minister, not you, not the government. I'm interested in the victims of the camp, that substance you're talking about. So here's the thing that's been telling you the media these past few days about Dragutin Guzowski's private lawsuit against Serbia for beating up in a camp, for abuse, while the state is silent, while the state is not working. While the minister violates the government's decision and you're a lawyer with a legal exam, right? I think you have a passed judicial exam you know that some government decision cannot disappear, but it needs to be abolished and declared new. You didn't do it, so the breach doesn't call in committee meetings. Croatian victims of Serbian camps as we see by example Mr. Guzovski are forced to seek justice alone because the state left them. That's what's important. I remind you, by the Government's decision, the commission is among other things in charge of monitoring Serbia in the implementation of the obligation, and I quote without discrimination on the victims of war guaranteeing rights, access to justice and justice, including the right to compensation for damages, proposals, the implementation of decisions for that purpose. Not by calling the commission is harmful to Croatian interests. I'll just ask you at the end so how will you show up in Vukovar if anything... ?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101957	Thank you. It is now up to representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic to ask the vice-president and Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101958	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Tolusic, in the Croatian forests there is a naked memory. I had opportunities to see for myself the extent of the damage, I felt Petrova Gora, there are miles and miles in many places visited in the Croatian forests where Croatian forests should be managed. I know about citizens' tips, from people who chose me, I know from profession and from people who live in these areas that the situation is similar both in Banovina and on Plješevica and in Žumberk, Medvednica and other parts of Croatia. The question arises as to how the present situation has taken place. For years and years, decades, at the end of the forest, they are not something planned for a week or a year but planned in the long term. For a long time, therefore, it was cut down to 4 million cubic metres or about 4 million and the increase was 5. And so it took decades and decades until the former Minister of Jakovina arrived, and since then, the age and growth began to grow rapidly, so we're at 5 million cubic metres, which was an increase by then, suddenly, to 7.5 and what was to be cut down by 4, now we're suddenly cutting down 6. It's all happened for the last 10 years. Here is the report in 2017 of the Croatian forests, the increase is 7.5 and the label is 6 million. So 50% more than 10 years ago. All of a sudden, during your term and your predecessors, are 50% more in the Croatian forest? Of course they're not because it's a slow process, inert, natural. The truth is different, the waist was demoted, reports were blown. Although the increase is high, the cut is not, the cut is real. I'm asking you where do you get the right to do this forest thing that's happening and what's going to stay after you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101959	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101960	Thank you, Mr. Sincic, for asking the question. If you had been in the hall when I answered Mrs. Luc, if you hadn't been on coffee or walking around Mark's square, you might have heard what I've already said to this question, but it's not hard for me to repeat. Croatian forests annual crew 9.5 million young people, plus more forest seeds, cut 6 million trees. It is transparently managed by wood mass. He had a great wood industry, every log, every piece of wood sold to Croatian companies working in the wood industry. That's what you, though you pretend to be ignorant, should know. But unfortunately, you're spreading false, false and incorrect information. You represent and assist smugglers, those who work on black, those who cut private forests, that's what you represent. And that's your policy. What I'm interested in, do you get paid the same way? And who do you borrow money from? And there's whistlers in the Living Wall, here's an example. So your closed group on Facebook. So April 13th, I think it's this year. The other day, your post, the other day he sat us down with campaign money, but since there was no money for a long time, we had to borrow the amount we had to pay back. Who did you borrow it from? From the smugglers? As we have transferred the money to the client's account, we have to justify every lip, your words, so I ask you all together, that for everything you can, the cleaning, the fuel, the office material, you take R1 to the Living Wall, because we have to return 20,000 kuna and we can't cover it. Always keep that in mind, please. Living Wall, Palenski Put 5G, Zagreb, OIB, you know better which is your OIB, try to get as much as possible in the next 10 days without getting into trouble. Thank you and don't take this announcement out of the group. Fortunately, there are honest ones in the Living Wall who want to work honestly. Who's funding you? Smugglers? And the hoarders you're helping? Unfortunately, such a policy, or fortunately, will not pass you in the Croatian forests in this government, and you may be ashamed of such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101961	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101962	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Tolusic, haughtiness will not help you, to make one such correspondence takes 5 minutes, you have apps on the Internet. The question is who are you representing, because the people you named, what you can call by law, and here's what the waist says. During your predecessor's internal report, I will read to you one part: "The 10-year period, from 2006 to 2015, in the state forests of which the lords of the Croatian forest have established illegal deviations and regular annual cross-sections in quantities greater than one million cubic metres per year. More than a million cubic metres a year, Mr. Tolusic, that was during your predecessor, now even worse. In fact, they were executed, the cut was done on unplanned surfaces of more than 10,000 hectares a year, explain to the public how 50% of the cut in Croatia occurred in several years. It's not true that it's done transparently, it's cut more than ever, and the wood is missing than ever. Ask people, ask whistles, how does the Inspector work, how he cheats on advertising, on wood's excuses, how he cheats on making documents? It is obvious that you represent lobbys in the Croatian forests and are unable to deal with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101963	Let's move on, legislator Silvano Hrelja asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101964	Your Honor, Mr. President. I believe you are aware that when citizens of the Republic of Croatia receive media reports about your long journeys, that several of them wish to travel from the 4th floor to the ground floor of their building or nearby park or cafe, but I cannot. Why can't I? Because they don't have an elevator in their building, and medical conditions or years don't allow them to master those 65 steps with normal walking. My question to you, Mr. Prime Minister, is whether you believe that there is a great interest in installing elevators in multi-story residential buildings in Croatia, and I hope there is no dispute that there is a possibility of funding from the European Commission if the Croatian Government changes the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, and opens a niche to finance these projects. You're probably wondering why I'm asking you this question, you're probably wondering why I'm asking you this question, but I must say that I tried to discuss this topic before the government's meeting in Pula, when Ms. Minister Žalac denied my interest, in a bureaucratic manner, denied the interest that there was, at all, an interest in installing elevators in multi-story residential buildings, because like them in the Ministry, no one answered. Therefore, I repeat my question whether you believe there is a great interest in installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings in Croatia, and there are more than 15000 of these entrances in the Republic of Croatia, and more than 700,000 citizens live in such circumstances, only that answer interests me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101965	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101966	Mr. Hrelja, on your question, as for you as communicators, obviously a number of people living in buildings with multiple floors, and they have no elevators in place, and if they've given you that message, I trust you, and so do they, if it's a question of belief. As for paper, proving such a desire in terms of the requirements, I also trust the Minister of Regional Development and the European Funds, but not only her, but also the Ministry of Civil Engineering, and the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, which are all together involved in the problem of resolving several housing buildings when it comes to energy efficiency. Unfortunately, this is one of the problems that might have been better solved, the public may need to be more sensitized and this possibility has to be more promoted at the time when the operational programmes were promoted, and this was produced in 2014 and 2015. At this point, and I think we've already talked about this one time in the current hour, the ministry is working together with the Commission to agree on changes to the operational programmes so that this form of funding, the installation of elevators into multi-story housing units, can be financed by European funds, and we're going to need your support. If you are as a person and as a party leader, a kind of informal coordinator of these initiatives, I ask you to submit all these requests to me and to the minister, and then I will also be more powerful, firmer and stronger to the European Commission for the modification of the operational programme. And as for the fact that we have to help our older fellow citizens who, after a certain age, are hard to climb up the stairs to what I know is the 4th floor is more than that, of course, it's hard and there's understanding and without signalling it. I just don't see much of a correlation to this topic with foreign policy activity, it's a little overreal to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101967	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101968	Regardless of your assessment of irrevocableness somehow must, somehow you must make the question attractive and connect and what does not normally connect, I am satisfied with your public saying that you believe that there is a great interest and I am satisfied with what you have said that the ministry is discussing and is looking for opportunities to introduce it as a special measure, given that the planned financing of the installation of the elevator is, respectively, according to the data and the European Commission with 85%. What I can't accept is that there are so many estimates that there is no interest, so of course there is no interest when there is no competition there is no single measure for the installation of lifts, but it is bound as a horizontal measure with the restoration of facades. So it needs to be separated and then the interest will be. However, I did not stand by as HSU leader and we are doing an ad hoc survey on November 4th, and I expect that about 25th of this month, I will have between 800 and 1000 lists signed by the tenants or the residents themselves with data as long as this person of older age lives in those entrances, the person being disabled. So I ask you, at the end of this month, to call a joint meeting, you, Minister, Mr. Stromar, who showed interest in the Ministry of Civil Engineering in order to do it operationally, me and Mr. Manenica and my operatives, and then to show what we have gathered to prove that there is interest in you and the Minister and the European Commission. I'll be grateful and this is a written answer to my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101969	The 17th question, MP Zeljko Jovanovic tells Health Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101970	Thank you, Mr. President, my question is for the Minister of Health, the question is concrete and well-intentioned as the contribution of SDP's health policy to solving the problem in the hospital health system, and I hope that answer as well. Therefore, HZZO hospitals pay through fixed monthly limits no matter how many services they have really provided to citizens, this way of financing hospitals makes it that part of the hospitals that have provided more than the limit remain deprived of the necessary funds, and those who have provided less will still receive all the money in order to cover such excessive fixed costs. Minister, are you planning on changing this as well? Are you planning to return what the SDP government did and that's paying hospitals by effect? Namely, only such payment can provide a fiscally sustainable system, can reduce waiting lists, can improve treatment outcomes, can improve the satisfaction of our citizens, as well as the satisfaction of our healthcare professionals who threaten to go abroad alarmingly. Data on the outflow of nurses are truly catastrophic and suggest that we are threatened by a complete deficit of sisterly profession that holds as much as 45% of total health care, so according to the information that is fresh in Croatia we have about 30,500 nurses missing from between 8,000 and 12,000. The example of an intensive treatment unit for KBC's cardiosurgery Zagreb has been temporarily reduced by the number of beds due to lack of nurses. The Children's Psychological Hospital in Kukuljevic has problems too because no one is answering the contest. Therefore, Mr. Minister, the only way to make the hospital system more efficient is to pay by effect. Will you do it and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101971	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101972	Your Honor, sir, I thank you for the inquiry you've asked. You probably know that there are more models in the world that are paid and each of these models has its weaknesses, and in particular the weaknesses can be seen why we are all behind and I believe you personally in solidarity health and health care and where we have Croatia as a country, where we have regions with depopulation with problems how to preserve both availability and quality. And on this trail, I'm going to make a little joke, you're probably well informed yesterday we're at a college between us members of the Ministry of Health and the HZZ, so we've just analyzed this subject, so we're aware of the problems that conditionally said certain injustices exist for those who know and do a lot of work towards those who can't, and we've also analyzed it yesterday, and we've concluded that in two weeks we're going to re-respecting the facts of what we have on one side, what you've stated, that some of them are really making a difference, and some of them are unfacturing their limit that we're going to reopen with the parameters and experiences of the countries that we want to compare with. True, you should say what you stated, which is that if some people were paid more to keep them easier in the Republic of Croatia. And on this trail, this government has now, with the change of the Health Protection Act, included that possibility, that those I always say, who know and do, should get more. And by the government regulation that we will prepare in the months ahead because the law comes with New Year's, there will also be a form of reward for those sisters, for those doctors who really carry the system by nature, work more, have greater performance, will be able to get even more pay. And yet I'm saying, we can't solve the problem of hospitals that are simply a set of historical circumstances with fewer patients gravitating them, which are in war troubles, for example, like Vukovar, we know that Vukovar, here on Sunday we'll all go there, how Vukovar was destroyed, how many people were killed, we can't now introduce strict economic criteria that, by certain standards, could be introduced, without doing any harm to lead to the threat of hospital survival. In any case, the inquiry you've asked, something that's up to date for this ministry, for this government, which we're analyzing, and we're probably going to make some adjustments on the negotiation of new restrictions that, at the end of the year, will now be created for hospitals, where there will probably be some adjustments that will then encourage them to work more and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101973	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101974	Thank you very much. So, the ministers failed to convince me because I still find it inexplicable and incomprehensible why this old payment system was returned after the SDP government showed that the system paid by the work done was more effective because this current system, proven to be bad, ineffective, creates losses. In this way, centres of excellence cannot be developed, nor can the outcomes of treatment be improved. It is logical, therefore, that waiting lists will continue to grow, that citizens will be increasingly dissatisfied, that healthcare professionals will leave the Republic of Croatia. As paradoxically as this sounds, budget money for Croatian healthcare is actually being ruined. All several data that prove this in the first 6 months of 2018, the hospital sector achieved a deficit of 565 million kuna. The commitments increased by more than 620 million kuna over the same period. My colleagues and colleagues, it's 26% higher in just half a year compared to last year. At the same time, the commitments of all public hospitals amount to a record 3.4 billion kuna and a total health debt of 8.3 billion kuna. At this rate, the hospital will create at least another billion and 100 million kunas of new debt by the end of the year. That is why, through the rebalancing proposal, another resolution shows that the system is not effective. So something has to change, and one of the first steps in that direction is just to get this model back to pay for what's been done. Thus, the best will be stimulated and rewarded and remain in the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian health care will then be solidarity, comprehensively, all equally accessible, we will have Croatian health care on a healthy basis. Now unfortunately, we don't have that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101975	The 18th issue of MP Marija Jelkovac asks the Minister of Demography of the Youth and Social Policy family, Nadi Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101976	Thank you very much. I am asking my question to the esteemed Minister, Mrs. Nadi Murganic, and I am interested in the following. We are aware that the situation of foster care is not satisfactory. First of all, because of insufficient number of foster families, and also because of their unbalanced spread. This also slows the process of deinstitutionalising children from institutions of social care, and also prevents the process of preventing the institutionalisation itself. Given that we now have over 800 children in our homes, without parental care, and about 90 children between 0 and 3 years of age, I really think that it is necessary to achieve much better effects, and therefore we expect this from the new law. In your opinion, what are the positive consequences of the new Household Act, and what will be the contributions from the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101977	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101978	I thank the honourable MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Parliament, ministers, respected MPs and MPs. Surely this new Household Law will bring about a series of improvements in this very important care for children, but also of adults. However, what we particularly point out is that it will enable foster care to be done both as an occupation and as a specialised profession for young people and for unemployed foster parents. Specialized foster care will be applied to those foster parents who care for children who are needed for illness or other difficulties, specialised and higher levels of different support. The amounts, as a fosterer's fee, will move for foster care as an occupation of 5500 and for specialized foster care up to 6500 kn, but on these fees, will be calculated and contributions under special regulations. Everyone in the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition, because traditionally they would... fostering, however, as you yourself said, did no longer meet the needs, precisely because our foster parents were less and less motivated, which is the average age of about 55 years and what is the problem, obviously in all activities in the Republic of Croatia and here, and that is this unequal representation of exactly this kind of service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this law, we want to encourage fostering in younger people and thus to encourage in some way and employment in those areas where foster care is not available, but also to improve the material position of our foster parents. So these fees will also increase to 2500 kn for traditional foster parents, we certainly need to distinguish them because they are compensations for the work of foster parents, from that provision, which both children and adults have, which are intended to meet their daily needs. To our social institutions, we have children's institutions located as you said more than 800 children, up to 820. The institutions work well and well, however, for the development of the child is certainly the most important of his biological family, and if this can't have a child then also a foster family, either as a replacement family or as a final search for the adoptive family. And this law is going in that direction, especially because of a quality psychophysical development that is very important for children up to the age of 3 that we have in our institutions up to 90 and this is all about the law, it's aimed at just improving, housing and fostering, just the smallest children. All this activity of this law, followed by one strong positive UNICEF campaign, every child needs a family. There are millions of kunas invested and on TV we have this very interesting and warm video and we invite citizens to be interested in the number 0800/82 82 to open their hearts and their doors to children and become foster parents. More about this law will be in this Visko home, at the second reading, because the government has referred it to the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101979	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101980	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the newspaper, which you have stated will give us a new law. I particularly think it is very positive and good that it will also allow young unemployed people to enter this foster home world. And it also becomes an occupation for those who will foster more than 3 or 4 people. Also, since all of us are focused on the child’s interest above all else, and because of such a large number. The children we still have in our homes, without parental care, I find it most important, because of this population, to achieve such newspapers here, which we will encourage as large as possible. fosterers and thus enable children to return to the family environment, so that they can grow up still in one family environment and in favour of them and our entire social community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101981	Let's go to question no. 19, MP Milorad Batinic asks the question of Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101982	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, I first express my satisfaction that it is in the 2019 budget. an increase in the position of the Ministry of Science and Education. It is a very strong message, primarily to the Croatian public, but also to all of us here in the Parliament, especially colleagues and colleagues who have been denying more than a year and a few days, your efforts, the ministry's efforts to achieve the reform processes that are being carried out in your ministry. We in the HNS were one of the main goals of entering the government, the political goals, of implementation of the curricular reform. As of next autumn, according to this draft plan, education reform, i.e. curricular reform, should enter all schools in the Republic of Croatia. I'm interested, and I'd like to know if you can answer, and I believe that, yes, is everything ready from formal, technical assumptions that curricular reform has been going to all schools since autumn?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101983	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101984	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you for asking, Mr. Representative of the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. That is what the European Commission has called in its report the reforms I implement in the Croatian area of education with ambitious reforms. On the contrary, I can really confirm that the curricula reform is entering all schools the next year, and in the classes in which it is this year, it was in experimental implementation. First grade OŠ fifth grade OŠ, natural sciences in seventh grade, i.e. first grade secondary schools of general education. In order for us to succeed, we already have this. In public consultation, we put decisions on curriculum. In that decision, all the curricula concerned, as well as curriculous inter-species, are attached. They're designed to follow all those gl. The elements adopted by this Assembly in July of this year are also a uniform approach to the methodological approach adopted by the expert working group, and these curriculas are essentially the ones created after the international reviews and reviews of the HAZU. The decision will be in public consultation for a month, after which working groups, for which the tender is now under way, will respond to a public debate, make certain shifts, I am sure of the documents and in early January 2019 curricula will be made. This is extremely important in order to organize what is needed in time for the next school year. However, we also have the results of monitoring and evaluations, monitoring and evaluation of experimental implementation in three different ways for monitoring and results show above all that both students and teachers and their parents are satisfied with what we have introduced to our schools and we, at the same time, value what is being done and what needs to be improved from these answers. One important element that we have improved is actually the education of teachers who are now starting for the next school year 5 months earlier than we started with experimental school, putting emphasis on the difficult topics that are also recognized in public as the difficult topics of our education system, primarily evaluation and evaluation, methods of work at school, then more education will be for schools organised live. And in that sense, I'm sure we use what we learn well when we have the monitoring and evaluation of the experimental phase. Also new teaching material, experimental textbooks are also in schools and are done by them. And what we have learned from this we have also put into the proposal for a new Law on textbooks that I am sure we will also receive support in the Assembly when we come to another reading because it is a very important step in this direction. Furthermore, it is in the budget and you have well noticed that the Government is delivering to the Parliament a budget where improved elements and project approach are important and then funding educational reform both in general education and in vocational education. With the Ministry of Labour, we are working on withdrawing funds from the European Social Fund that will now be close to half a billion kuna for next year and end of that we have regional competence centres that actually paint in the best way all those shifts that are taking place in the reform of vocational education. We'll also have meetings with the founders and then we'll give more detailed information on that. In any case, curricular reform is in schools, all schools in Croatia next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101985	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101986	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer, of course I didn't expect the second answer. Namely, because it is more than the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who will be in the implementation itself, of the students of the Croatian future. What I would like to point out once again at this report by the European Commission, I will quote: "An ambitious reform has been launched following years of delays caused by political struggles." I think that you and your team are on a good path, you have government support in that realization and expression of dissatisfaction, criticism of certain colleagues and colleagues on the other side of the spectrum let you not, so to say rocking your confidence, simply has she and still following us in Croatia a sentence of failure will forgive you, success never. And that's why the esteemed minister, left and right, just go for the curricula reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101987	Let's move on. Representative Miroslav Tudjman, the question raises to Davor Bozinovic, the interior minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101988	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Illicit migration today is a global problem, i.e. the problem of international policies and international debates. There is a awareness that no one, no country can resolve this on its own, but that joint efforts are needed both systematically and responsibly. Croatia should, for its part, be interested in a comprehensive solution that is then being asked as a matter of regional security. And as a matter of regional security, it should come from fundamental facts, which is that the countries of BiH, Kosovo, Macedonia, Serbia, countries surrounded by NATO members plus Montenegro and Macedonia are surrounded, means all of these countries as with EU member states. From that point of view, it is an assumption that, as a problem of immigration, illegal immigration, access is being made from the position of regional security. I would be interested in the fact that your ministry is operationally involved in solving these problems, whether it exists in view of your experience, this change in political philosophy, that these countries are seen as something that is in the EU's abdominal environment or in the NATO alliance. Therefore, such an approach also begins to address the problem of illegal migration and therefore other regional security problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101989	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101990	... Mr. Tudjman, if you had said so well, this is a very complex question that no country can solve on its own and the question is how self-determined it is. [[Specially enabled.]] So migration is a process and it will happen as it happens practically from the beginning of humanity, it will happen with greater or lower intensity and in the future. Croatia has one specific position here, geostrategic, we are a country with the longest external land border of the EU but also a country bordering non-member countries and, of course, as perceived as a country to pass through, enter, move on and move on towards the final destinations that are certainly in, in, in, in Western Europe. Which are certainly in Western Europe. The complexity of this issue also contributes to the fact that the international community has never actually formed a policy on migration and henceforth and today great and misunderstandings and objections about so-called. The Maracas compact, which is actually the first attempt to start looking for a global solution, and it will be a long time since we see, and also from today's debate, that migration is seen as a purely or in the first place as a humanitarian issue, some economically, some demographically we are talking about a security issue here, because they are also a security issue, especially when we talk about illegal migration. So, from the very beginning, Croatia has been standing there very clearly we are not excluding any of these moments, but when we talk about illegal migrations they are a security issue, which actually undermines the sovereignty of that country in the sense that it decides who will enter its territory, who will remain on its territory, that through various aspects of illegal smuggling, human trafficking has a direct implications for public order, peace and security. We have a whole series of cases, especially lately, that migrants come without IDs, which is in itself a security issue and that according to statistics lately most of them come from countries that aren't actually countries where war is being fought, for example Iran, or countries in North Africa, and so on. It is precisely from that position that the Croatian government has gone from taking over about a year, a year and a half ago, to being very lobbying in this whole context when we talk about the European Union, NATO is somewhat less active in this regard, including countries that are south of us, which are very important on that migrant route and what we succeeded as prime minister was on the European Council in December 2017 in an operational part of the conclusions just helping integration into this policy of countries such as Serbia, BiH, Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia. It will take time, first of all, for these countries themselves to make sufficient efforts because they are now soft stomachs through them going through them more or less without any difficulty and in our bilateral contacts we give All by ourselves to encourage them in that sense [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The question, of course, is for a much wider discussion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101991	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101992	Obviously, the issue of migration, as you said about a much wider debate, because as we look through history and the Roman Empire has failed because of migration, so it failed to resolve the issue. But this is about changing political philosophy like I said. No, it should appreciate the efforts that the government is making to address this problem and try to unite but it is done that the European Union, on the one hand, and NATO on the other hand, should take this as its own problem, rather than the problem that should be addressed to Croatia to solve it with its neighbours. So if this does not happen, this shift in the political philosophy of solving the problem will take much longer and we will have much more problems, and with one change we could then solve other issues as BiH's stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101993	Let's move on, MP Mladen Karlic, asking the question of the Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds Gabrieli Žalac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101994	The Honorable President of the Croatian Government and the Honorable Ministers and Ministers here are my question to Mrs. Gabrieli Žalac, in the last year and a half, there has been a significant increase in the number of approved projects financed by the European Structural Investment Funds, and since many of these projects need to be provided with part of the funding for co-financing of their own participation, and we are aware of the fact that many or a large part of the municipalities and cities, and even the county has no such financial opportunities, my question is how the funds for this purpose will be provided in the Fund for co-financing of the implementation of EU projects at regional and local level, and especially after the entry into force of the new Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, given that we know and so far were 1.5% of income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101995	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101996	Thank you very much, dear representative Karlic, for your question. The EU co-financing fund for projects at regional and local level was established in 2015, however, at the time we had a completely opposite situation from what we have today, so there were very few agreed European projects, so there was no significant spending on the co-financing fund, and at that moment we spent these funds through the Law on the implementation of the State Budget, in agreement with my counterpart Maric and I re-scheduled means for national programmes to be spent in some way. In today's time when, with 9% as a government, we raised the level of agreement to 59% on today with a growth trend of more than 490% of growth compared to the last 3 years and the funding of the EU project co-financing fund at regional and local level. So far, we have invested 490 million kunas through the EU Project Co-financing Fund, but we have one situation to tell you here today, 1.5% of income tax was the source from which this fund was being filled in 2018 with the Law on the financing of units of local (area) self-government, these original revenues were returned to local self-government units and we are talking this year about about about a billion and a half kuna of funds found on the local self-government units' own budgets. However, we are regardless, knowing that there will be a great need at regional local level in the state budget for 200 million kuna. We called an eight-month tender, it lasted three weeks. The funds were kind of spent right away. We are aware, we talk very much with the Croatian Community of Countys and all units of local self-government and I am sure that we will also take care of the criteria and criteria that we have established there. However, because this fund is no longer being filled from the original incomes, so, which we have previously achieved, I think that its name will not be a fund, but we will rename it to some programme, but we will certainly continue to support projects, better absorption of European funds and above all for units of local self-government that are not able to fully achieve their own participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101997	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101998	I think it's extremely important that as much resources as possible be provided through that fund or in any form in order to make as many projects as possible. I think it should be withdrawn because that one significant good actually source of funding for all municipalities, cities, I think it is seen throughout the Republic that a year, a year and a half really increased the number of implemented projects, especially here I am, I am glad, coming from Vukovar Srijem County, from Vinkovaca where you see actually numerous projects that are in realisation, but you can see it in the field of the entire Republic, so thank you really for this work and I am sure that we will continue to actually increase that number to 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u101999	Let's go to question 22. Representative Stjepan Kovac sets it up for Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102000	I thank the president of HS, the respected prime minister with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I am interested, here are the two years since you won the election and you rule the country, your government where you are headed, we call it, such reforms, but what is worrying about the Republic continues to sink further and further. Demographers say we will soon reach a border from which there is no return, as you know, soon, here from the Republic of Croatia, over the past few years, how many people move out, and almost 10% of the Croatian population. There is a growing lack of labour. You talk to the builders today, unfortunately there's no labour force that we have to export because our people are going after bread to other countries. It is also particularly concerned that despite the measures taken that result in such an increase in wages that you are working on, emigration is not eroding. And I believe that economic reasons are the main reason why you in the Republic of Croatia today have 70% of citizens working for wages, net wages less than 5,000.00 kuna. You also have 100,000 workers who have minimum wages working on a specific which have very small or almost no rights i.e. They don't have any security. But what is particularly worrying is the fact that a large number of evicted people are coming out, the atmosphere in society says. I am interested specifically in how you will stop this eviction of our citizens and restore dignity to the pensioners and young people in particular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102001	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102002	Thank you very much, Agent Kovac, so much for asking questions on your one question. So, about moving out and what we've been looking at lately, let's say, five years. You know very well at the time of your government's mandate, the Republic of Croatia has become a member of the EU. At the moment of this membership, part of the Member States began liberalising their labour market for Croatian citizens on 1 July 2013. It allowed the freedom of movement of workers, one of four fundamental freedoms. As time went by, so did those countries that used the 2+3+2 formula, and these are periods of how to keep restrictions due to the impact on the labour market, gradually abolished those restrictions and the Republic of Croatia reciprocated it. Today 2018 is the only time Austria holds restrictions on the freedom of movement of workers. It basically means no quotas and no work permits. We are now as a country that has been in EU membership for 5 years, except Austria, in a situation that any citizen of ours can leave at any time in any EU member state, have the same treatment as their citizens and people do. This happens at a time when cohesion policy which manifests the key principle of solidarity of the European project and even regional development has not yet received those effects in the Republic of Croatia to bring our people closer to the economic dimension of receiving what exists in the older EU member states. And there's this space going on. So people use what was made possible by the state's moves, in the citizens' end line in the referendum, what the European project is. It is our job to make use of what we get from the EU through quality use of what we get from the EU. It is my assessment that it will only be after a full 2 financial frameworks of 7 years and that only in 2027,28,29, will we be in a position where the countries of Middle Eastern Europe that joined the EU in 2004 are now in place. It's real, it's real frames. What's happening to us has been happening to us, dear representative and other more civilised countries in much larger numbers, and it's not just a feature of the Republic of Croatia. It is our task, and I will say contrary to this assessment of yours that the trends we have in terms of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, investment, and if you want to increase the average wage in our mandate by more than 700 kuna, the increase in minimum wages, the increase in pensions are already at 6.7% compared to the promised 5% from the beginning of the mandate, to good macroeconomic indicators to only one step from the investment rating that reduces our interest and debt on the financial markets, to never a better tourist year, to attract investment from other countries to the extent that interest shows for those branches where we have a problem, and shows interest in shipbuilding serious investors. I can't agree with you, what I can kind of accept is the atmosphere in society. The atmosphere in society is something we all have to work on, we work as a serious and responsible government. We're keeping a good point on this. We're gonna keep going, do you guys want to help us with that? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] i.e. It's up to you, as you would say. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102003	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102004	I thank you, I could partly agree with you, but when you look at people leaving today, here I will specifically tell you in Čakovec, City Administration, 2 employees have gone from the City Administration to work in Germany, their wives are also not working in bad places, you know why, they went away for 5 years before retirement to secure such a minimum German pension, which is why, because our people in Croatia don't know what their pension will be. Today we read through the newspaper that our pension funds are empty in which we pay money that these funds have been spent on Agrokor and so on. People don't know what's waiting for them tomorrow, they don't know what their future will be, it's definitely because of this climate that's created in Croatia. You read about various affairs, you mentioned shipbuilding if you know that Međimurje entrepreneurs are processing more metals than all shipbuilding together in Croatia and kunas, kunas have never asked anyone, which nonsenses have never had more profit, they never have more profit, so there is a need to work together with the government to provide these people with salaries, people say they have some normal salary somewhere 1,000 EUR. So these people don't go out because in Germany it's nicer, 1.1. Austria should open the border that's from Čakovec when you look at me before I come to Graz than up here to Mark's Square if it's crowded in Zagreb, before I drive my car to Graz and twice the salary a man gets there. And they will have a secure pension of what is not guaranteed to anyone in Croatia except those who have certain preferential pensions, etc. That's what it takes to make this atmosphere change, and there's safe space and it's working out, you've started some kind of reform, but that's definitely not enough, because there's a trend of emigration. This should be stopped, because there will be no one working in Croatia in no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102005	Thank you, let's question 23. Representative Bruno Esich is asking him to be Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102006	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, so Mr. Prime Minister, Representative Esich and my second parliamentary question to you on the Marrakech Agreement expected. I've been thinking about whether I'm going to ask him as an external-political or internal-political question, but I decided to do this first because you've long since shown us that for the fate of hysterical Croats as you called them, he didn't care, he's not on your list of priorities. I believe that this, as a matter of foreign policy or the future of Europe, will be much clearer to you, and that you will show much greater sensitivity. So please answer me why, for God's sake, so many Member States of the European Union such as Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, Poland, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Italy, etc. object to this agreement or to its recent adoption of the waters of a very heated parliamentary and public debate. Why, for God's sake, and how do they think of it when his content as being directed by Mr. Jandrokovic is uncontestable and the questions are too high? And why is it that when it comes to a non-binding catalogue of measures that are not signed in spite of a person there announces monitoring of sovereign states and the words of the obligations listed 50 times in it? Why, unlike those of you who have expressed such a firm and unshakable attitude, the government that represents these states allows itself to exert pressure on the professional public and the will of the people? So far, I have been following your statements and statements by Mr Jandrokovic as well as Minister Buric, as well as the reports of Croatia's state pjong Yang television and other unbiased media that illiterate, illiterate and hysterical xenophobes live only in Croatia And when they're over there, they're all over Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102007	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102008	Thank you, beautiful Esich, I give you one big plus pawning on the other question, as you said yourself, congratulations that's very good, you'll see well in the statistics you're doing. As far as this is concerned, it's a little bit of an exaggerated setup, i.e. The first document on which you are talking about the global compact on legal and regulated migration is an attempt by the UN to respond to the phenomenon that took place in the world and Europe in particular in 2015 and 2016. The UN General Assembly of that year was attended by the President of the Republic, by then Foreign Minister Mr Kovac, they were then one of those who accepted a New York declaration aimed at making one such document that would be a little closer to the phenomenon of legal migration. The process lasted a year and a half, including all those who were to be involved, co-ordination led by the foreign ministry, negotiations as such were conducted at the level of permanent missions in New York before the United Nations. The document is only from the very beginning in a very clear message, i.e. it has put a kind of reserve in Hungary, no other country, and including many of those that you have mentioned now, and some of them have not decided at all not to come to Marrakech, for example... or Denmark, Italy or the Netherlands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you have as a data that is probably somewhere in the free collage with media, Internet space is one thing, and what you're quoting and representing as true, that's your problem. That document negotiated, agreed. None, but none of the experts, in foreign affairs, nor internal affairs, human rights offices, other restaurants, in a year and a half, sees such a dramatic, political bomb, which has been thrown into public debates, not only of Croatia, but of all these other countries, which you have mentioned. So no one sees it, except for certain actors and certain political parties, very similar to the worldview, according to the position they have in political society, trying to profit on this topic, to score some points, to say, your party colleague may have torn down the government or destroyed the city's assembly or what you already have constructively in your programme written down, and in the interest of certainly a large majority of the prudent part of the Croatian electoral body. The point of this document, Mrs. Esich, is to regulate legal migration. Unlike you, we in the government make it very clear that we are legally different from illegal. So we are also a government that wants Croatia to meet the criteria for Schengen, to enter this narrow part of the European process, we treat this issue as a national issue and as a European issue, and through this document and as a global issue. So you can set it to all three levels if you want. It is always identical to us, and we are guided by the protection of our borders, by the protection of our interests, but also by the participation of WHO where in a multilateral way, in an agreed way, we are trying to find answers to global phenomena. The non-binding document is not an international contract, the modern right of every country, and of course Croatia, to run its migration policy. So no matter what you say or what you think, we don't see the problem in this document. Why is he your problem? I'm asking you to articulate it, not to refer to others as saying what your problem is, except your impression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102009	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102010	Mr. Prime Minister, I've been reading, so you can see that as much as I'm back, I know something and read it. I'm not, but Mr. Junker is certainly very pleased with your answer, everything else is your distractions, and I'm not going to fall for them. So, Mr. Junker, just like you, thinks that there's no one from those countries, which I've listed, I've been able to read and read. However, I think that all of this confirms both your fears and its greatest fears, which is that those who ask unnecessary questions, therefore, worry about the safety of their borders, about the modernity and future of their country, has absolutely everywhere. And do you know what they're called? It's your favorite word now, they're called the people. All of you of the rest of you of the people, the rulers of absolute truths, not so much, but you are globally and strategically very well distributed, you have power, you have the power to invent your own purposes, your own goals, you're going to break up traditions, you're destroying nations you're creating over government. You consciously relativize the consequences and thus cause riots and wars, which, of course, you never participate in, because why you would bleed. Later when the victims are collected and the damages are called to peace, non-violence, tolerance, human rights, and as always as we have heard the chosen words. Mr. Plenkovic, the Croatian people do not expect you to be a polyglot, to be a diplomat, a supereuro man. You are expected to be a statesman, meaning both the servant and the leader of your people, who will once again say no to this perfect and silent war published by the European modern nation, and so your, Croatia, your current choices shape our future and in this war, Mr. Prime Minister, anemia is no excuse for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102011	Let's move on. Representative Damir Felak asks the question to Drazen Bosnjakovic, the minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102012	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, my question is about the good part of the economy, but it overlaps with your portfolio and is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice to pass some laws concerning relief, business in Croatia. As some predecessors have already said here, who have been asking questions in this direction, in order to allow people to stay in Croatia, to facilitate business, easier job creation, it is also necessary to make some moves and bring some new regulations. Today's legislation is such that it takes a minimum of 7 steps to start a new business. This government, headed by our President Plenkovic, has repeatedly pointed out that the rapid growth of the economy is one of the priorities of this government, if not the highest priority of this government, so my particular question goes to you, how does your ministry think to change the legal framework, which would have made it easier to start business faster and cheaper, and that young people and others who want to start their business here in Croatia, are much easier to start new businesses and thus create new jobs, which would result in less people leaving our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102013	Please respond to the Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102014	Thank you, Your Honor, for establishing that, in fact, entering the business world is within the jurisdiction of several ministries and other state bodies. One of these state bodies is also the Ministry of Justice under whose jurisdiction is actually the registration of the establishment of companies, whether companies with limited liability, whether they are stakeholders and the registration of the establishment is carried out in commercial courts. Today is the procedure, I would say, as far as the courts themselves and the functioning of the courts are concerned, it is possible in a few days to enter the fact of the establishment, but what we want to do in the Ministry of Justice, create a regulatory framework where it will be much faster and where it will be much cheaper and simpler, because today when you start a company, you go to the notebook, you give the Declaration of founding, you do a social contract, you write and sign a statement of acceptance by the Administration, you give a list of members of the founders, and it's simply a very complex procedure, which after that is still going to go out of the statistical number, the opening of a jury account, we today want to create a system where you from your own home, from your office, are actually going to be able to be included in a single information system, where you will be kicked out of the forms that will fill out, after you fill it comes out, it comes to the trade court and register. We have the same painful fact, you know, when someone starts a company, then security works, it writes that it will deal with a variety of activities, so the top is not sure how many business pages they'll be doing, and they're actually interested in just a few types of activities, and these are recording security works, because if they want to do them tomorrow, they don't go all that way. We also want to relieve our Commercial Courts here, because we believe that these cases can be recorded and run by other bodies, much more successful and better than the Commercial Court, which in principle, such a fact does not have to be written down. Therefore, we are in the process of amending the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register, and very soon they will see you in fact, and in the public debate power's 'participating', with those solutions we offer. We offer, therefore, a system of setting up companies to say it remotely, that it can be done' from the office, from the house, so, without some big walking around from the Body to the Body, without as much cost as we have today, and that's some kind of contribution that can, of course, the Ministry of Justice, by improving this normative framework given, which will actually make it easier for the Commercial Courts, and I think that we will contribute, in fact, to our citizens who want to enter the business world, to make it faster, to make it easier, to make it cheaper and easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102015	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102016	I thank you for your response, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased with the answer, I hope that this legislative procedure, or the adoption of this new Law on Commercial Society, will be as soon as possible, because this will achieve that, simply, simpler regulations, reduce red tape, and that will result in greater economic activity, and that should be for all citizens, and the state, as well as employees, and ultimately these civil servants. I'll just say one word, maybe it means laws, laws must be simplified, changed, made possible, meant by the e-system, that people, that people register their firms as quickly and as easily as possible, but we should work on changing the awareness of public servants, we simply need to achieve what they have more developed countries that have a much longer democratic system to simply understand that they are the service of citizens, service to entrepreneurs, and that ultimately from those separations of tax dollars, which these entrepreneurs pay, finance the salaries of all public servants, start from us here in the Parliament, the government and all the rest of us to the last official who sits on the counter and accepts all these requests, or will now receive them by e-mail. Our goal is that this system, just as it works better, and in order for it to function as easily as possible and as cheap as possible, we must have quality laws, so I welcome this announcement that this Law on the establishment of companies will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102017	Before we move on to the next question, please welcome together students and students of the Commercial and Trade School from Split. Welcome. Now it is MP Miro Bulj, who is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102018	Thank you very much. Here are the last days, the president of HT, the HT administration, boasts that the increase in profits from 46 to 41.9 is otherwise the biggest profit of HT, telecommunications, in the area of Europe is in the Republic of Croatia, more than 100%. And now he boasts that the increase is bigger, the gain is bigger. The fact is, his profits are bigger only because they don't behave and they don't stick to the law, teleopers, as they do in their countries, where they come from. So they set up base stations wherever they want, break the laws, without needing the consent of neighbors, local self-government, any consent, is a building permit, is a useful permit, but that the Department of Construction, tolerates. What do you say to the Prime Minister, which is why he has the highest profit in the European Union, i.e. all over Europe, HT, in the whole of Europe? Because of what the Legal Holes are doing, what they are comfortable with and what they are allowed to do, and that is what the European Commission is telling us, which tells us that, which openly says, we are one of the worst in the European Union in terms of building a digital network. You know why? Because they fit the base stations, which they put on hospitals, schools, kindergartens, wherever they think of them. We have examples, had examples, where they even have, where they have to remove the license, where they have from the inspection results, that they have to, they don't want to. They act like this is their creation. I ask you Prime Minister, answer loud and clear, which is why teleopers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are favored, which is why they do not behave as they behave in Sweden, Germany, in the countries where they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102019	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102020	Thank you very much. Representative Bulj, I'm sure no one will be pleased, and Minister Butkovic will answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102021	Uh-huh, sorry. It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102022	Mr. Prime Minister, I am disappointed with this answer, because here you know that this is a very complex question, you know that we in Mosta were giving amendments when we change the law that we have the right to serve, that in the Republic of Croatia they don't pay the right to serve, that there was an e-consultation when the president of HT's board met with you.../incomprehensible/... there was no longer before the vote of the law, there was no provision, they gave you amendments not accepted. The European Commission calls on us to be at the bottom. We don't have the courage, I know it's hard to catch up with the media, who are sponsors of the media teleoperators, but that's why we're leaving these young people because they get 40%, margin, and 20% in other parts of the European Union. They invest in Montenegro and give us money, which is why the Dalmatian Zagora is empty for the sake of public procurement and because 4 billion kunas of the bank each year for the benefits and commission of the land, and the teleoperators suck up and not invest in Croatia but in Ireland in Germany. We must fight that every local self-government, every rightful owner pays the right to serve. Then it will be for healthcare, for education it will be for entrepreneurship, for investment, and not in this way that we have 2/3 of Croatia empty because teleopers, banks and others are spending huge money on us. Please, Prime Minister, once again, this is a serious issue, a matter of national importance, and I know that it may be related, because I know that from the chairman of the board of directors of HT, in the government of your country, I don't know what function he's in, and I'm sure you know best about this, did you meet with the president of HT's board the night before the vote on the bill where the trial is charged? the right of service in the interest [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Croatian citizens and these children upstairs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102023	Let's move on, now it's up to Representative Stipe Shapina, who's asking the question of Darka Horvato, Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102024	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected prime minister, respected ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies and MPs. Respected Ministers Horvatt, Petrokemija is of great importance to the local economy not only of the Kutin area but also of the Sisak-Moslavina County economy. The bad business results that society has generated in recent years have led to a situation where more than 1,500 employees of Petrokemia could have lost their jobs. Therefore, as a representative coming from the area, I am particularly pleased that in the last day of last month after a year and a half, a successful completion of the process of capitalisation of Petrokemia was announced, which is extremely important for the people of Sisak-Moslavina County. However, I know that the European Commission's rules on state aid for recovery and restructuring are strict and restrictive. Given how it is possible, or how the state model took part in this process as one of the investors and the other, does the European Commission have any knowledge about it or is it potentially threatening us with a puck from Brussels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102025	Thank you very much. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102026	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, respected fellow ministers and respected Croatian Prime Minister. I would like to thank the honourable parliamentary representative for the matter in question. Therefore, in order to ensure a long-term and sustainable business model, the Centre for Restructuring and Sales was in collaboration with Petrochem and consultants who had then chosen, which was a BDO consultation developed by the restructuring programme adopted by the Supervisory Board of the Society and the CERP on 30 June. Certain activities and actions were preceded by any intention of recapitalisation of Petrochemia. In accordance with the hodogram of the recapitalisation activities under the contract in question, the restructuring programme in question was to be completed on 18 December 2017. In the time in question, there were conversations and contacts with all those factors that then expressed their desire and intention to enter the recapitalisation. The process lasted a while and to speed it up and to be successfully brought to an end in the past six months, the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts took a co-ordination role and the process here successfully brought an end. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts has been informed in parallel with the European Commission in which the State can access the part of the recapitalisation of the company concerned and, in accordance with the discussions with the European Commission, it is explicitly stated that the State may, but under the same conditions as private capital, as well as private stakeholders without any other or larger rights in that recapitalisation, assume the role of stakeholders and participate in the recapitalisation. Also, in May this year's invitation to the new recapitalisation process, the two large or strongest economic operators currently show in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, INA and the PPD. With regard to the conditions laid down in the principle of participation of those companies in the recapitalisation process on the taking over of part of the long-term liabilities of the company, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on 24 May 2018, adopt a Decision on the granting of the power to conclude a contract on concessions and the purchase of claims against Petrokemija d.d. fertilisers therefore assume the obligations of the company against loans made to ERSTE and Steiermarkische Banca, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Croatian Post Bank. With the agreement of contractual obligations and contractual items, in these last 6 months with stakeholders and partners, it lasted until the 122nd telephone session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself. In addition to that contract, which was the subject of the Government's Decision, which requires consent to the text of the Treaty and the power to sign it, it was also necessary to adopt the Decision on granting consent to acquire the share on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in the related company Petrochemy Agrotrada d.o.o. Kutina, which takes over the Restructure and Sales Centre. What you have asked in the second part of your question, as perhaps one key element, is whether the support in question can cause any controversy towards the Commission in valorisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102027	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, thank you. Here's my esteemed colleague, Shapina, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102028	I thank Minister Horvat for his reply. I am pleased with your response, I appreciate your efforts and your efforts, and our government's efforts and efforts to address the accumulated problems in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102029	The next question will be asked by respected representative Josip Boris, Minister of the Sea of Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Oleg Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102030	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear President with ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will ask my question, ask the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Ministers, it is known that the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is responsible for the construction of transport infrastructure, for the construction of airports, sea ports, for the construction of bridges, roads, highways and railways. Billions of kunas are invested in the construction of new buildings, which should include us as a state-run state of advanced and modern transport infrastructure. The ministry's budget next year is over 8 billion, and it certainly bears witness to everything I have already stated. For the past 2 years, large funds have been invested to build new and rebuild existing railway lines that definitely need new, faster, more modern and better modern trains. My question is to you, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing about the restoration of the Croatian railways fleet and whether we will after the renewed railways, whether our citizens will continue to drive on average with older and less comfortable trains that we have today, or whether the HZ passenger transport fleet will finally meet the newer and more modern conditions of rail transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102031	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative. Well, yeah, you're right. Currently, an investment cycle of around 20 billion kuna has started in transport infrastructure and are mainly large infrastructure projects, from the Pelješka bridge to large railway projects. Here we open tomorrow, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will open works on the construction of an Istrian platform, investments worth EUR 160 million, so you are right when you say that the big investment cycle is on the move, and that most of these investments will be financed by the European Union, in fact somewhere around 16 billion kuna is now agreed for transport projects in transport infrastructure. As for the construction of railway infrastructure, the fact is that after the construction of the highways, we were unable to parallelly build a car road network and rail infrastructure and that most of these investments will now and in the future be in railways, mainly on 10th, former 10th Corridor and on the Mediterranean Corridor, where large infrastructure works are now being carried out, and what you have asked, which was specifically your question, the purchase of new trains because the fact that these trains used by HZ are passenger transport are not satisfactory, although they have been in recent years, and the purchase of new trains. In this sense, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, or HZ passenger transport, has prepared one major project, total value of 1 billion and 300 million kuna, purchases of 21 new trains, which will also be financed by European funds, and we will have the signing of the Grant Treaty somewhere in early 2019, and will then launch a tender for the purchase of these trains, in order to make the newly renovated railways carried out, of course parallel to that, have new trains, which will then enable our citizens to use trains easier. Of course, this is our goal, especially in this suburban part of the city of Zagreb, but also in other areas, trains are used. I think it is cheaper and more accessible transport everywhere in the European Union, so it should also be in Croatia. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102033	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102034	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. And indeed these 21 trains, a billion and 300 million kunas in the coming years, will certainly be a contribution to what we want, and that is arranged, modern and good rail transport, but also to all other modes of traffic, so I say, and your division in the budget for next year, surely that this intention also has its purpose through the budgets and projections by 2021. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102035	And the next question will be asked by respected representative Josko Klisovic, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102036	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. The Republic of Croatia is a state, it is also a member of some important international organisations, including the United Nations. There he negotiates various types of documents, making his sovereign views known. It gives its consent to documents or contests them. But I believe that there is those views that are based on state foreign policy. Now what I'm interested in in in the context of the Marrakesh Accords, what is the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia as a state? And we know that... says it is co-created by the government and the president, that is, the president of the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you said here today about the Marrakech Agreement I can accept and support. I believe my party also supports it. Is this also the state policy of the Republic of Croatia and will it be implemented in international relations just as you have stated here today?? Or we will continue to confuse international partners as well as the Croatian public and put a great sign of the questionnaire, which is indeed Croatian foreign policy on, say, the Marrakech Agreement or migration policy. And this isn't the first time. Let us also remember the Subotic Declaration signed by the president of the state with Mr. Vukic, president of Serbia, which also contained elements of migration policy without the support of the government. What, then, is Croatia's state policy, in the foreign policy segment? This people must know, this Parliament must know? So we can either invite you to responsibility or commend you if she's good. At this point, we are not sure what Croatian foreign policy is. So please tell me what's in the context of the Marrakech Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102037	The reply of the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102038	Thank you very much, Agent Klisovic, I am pleased that you support what I have explained about the compact global compact on legal migration. As far as national migration policy is concerned, whether legal or illegal, it is based on 3 points... to prevent illegal migration, 2nd to meet the criteria for Schengen, 3rd to support all international efforts, whether as regards regulation of legal or preventing illegal ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the policy of the Republic of Croatia, that's what the government is holding on to, that's what the government is doing, and that's what the government is doing in partnership with international organisations, but also with other countries, especially those that are neighboring to us, so we have to have, say, oragressions with them. So it's a frame. As for this global compact, so, at no time in the last two years, the government changed from the New York Declaration until October, it was no longer the same team responsible for the government, the president remained the same. I at no time, nor from any of the actors, which is relevant, to abstract and relevant actors, have heard nothing that is a substance problem in that document, and I haven't heard it today. And I didn't hear that, if you want the President of the Republic, except that she was going to go so she wouldn't go. I haven't heard that the problem is some kind of sentence, some formulation or anything in a global compact on legal migration. As far as I'm concerned, there is no disunity here, the government will discuss the document this week, after the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has submitted a report, we will send a document to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public, so we demystify putting things on the table, just as they are, therefore, not an international contract, is not a binding, modern-day right of every country to run its migration policy, in a way that it considers to be the most appropriate catalogue of measures. Like any document within the United Nations, and you as head of the cabinet of the current President of the Republic, in one phase of your career, which as diplomat or deputy minister, were in the United Nations and you know very well that it was a compromise of 180 countries that worked on that document. Croatia has participated in this through a common harmonisation of the EU member's position. And she has articulated her views, not only the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, but also the MUP and other human rights resolutions, etc. Therefore, we as a government, with careful analysis of the document, including an international legal analysis of the effects of the document, which will later, most likely be adopted in January as an annex to a short resolution of the UN General Assembly, which it has legal effect on the state. He's like you know very well, part of what's called international law... or recommendations, according to this as a recommendation, you can but you don't have to use it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether he, with the passing of time, practice, will get any character of ordinary law, it is now at this moment on a remote stick, however, what is important in his content from the aspect of government analysis, of all the competent resistors, we see no problem, but we see the attempt of a number of global actors, to respond to the phenomenon that is with us today, he was with us a few years ago, he'll stay with us, it's likely that this will be the topic of the next 10, 15, 20, 30 years, and that's why we have to look for an answer to him. As regards State policy 1, 2, 3 in the notice... We have not heard from anyone, nor in the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102039	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102040	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your response. We will follow the implementation of this foreign policy in the context of migration and as regards the elements of the policy and the elements of the policy and the foreheads on which it rests. Because the last statements made by the President of the Republic, they suggested or at least created a suspicion that there was a certain twist, but what we didn't know, whether there was a harmonized turn, from what we heard today, and also from the foreign minister, it was clear that there was no twist. But we'll follow how the realisation goes. As for the fundamental principles on which the government is based its policy, migration, I think there may be another element missing, which is an element of a little more intense and closer communication with the Croatian public. It's not just technical elements that matter. In the Croatian public, this is what we all witness, as well as the public of some European countries, fear designers began to shed fear of migrants, shine xenophobia and call for discrimination. Such a thing is not the kind of society we want to build in which we want to live. The opposition parties, publicly, strongly oppose it. I think the government needs much more intensive participation in this very context of political work towards the Croatian public. Because by raising fear in public to mobilize people tomorrow to come to power, it certainly won't bring any good. In history, the radiance of fear has shown that it cannot be controlled more politically when produced. And very often these fear designers who came to power through fear then turned the state into a dictatorship or ended in wars and severe human rights violations. I think it is our shared responsibility to put an end to it, by acting in our political groups, by acting as parties responsible for the political space of Croatia. And that element I think you're missing in the Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102041	Let's move on, issue number 29. Pedja Grbin's representative is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102042	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. The question I'm going to ask you is about Oil and 3. May. You'll remember 10 months ago at the first current afternoon of this year, I asked you a question that is in a very significant way similar to what I'm going to ask you today. The problem, however, is that now 10 months later the situation in Uljanik and 3. It's not better than the Mayan. It's bigger and worse. Among other things, for my actions from, I must be corrected for your government's inaction. Dear Mr. President, the workers are on strike, the jobs and the wages are gone, the society is on lockdown. According to the Law on Insurance of Workers' Searches, minimum payouts have begun, but you and I both know that this is only a temporary solution. In view of all the above, one very simple question is raised and what now. That's why I'm asking you to answer that question, and I'm asking you in particular to respond to the citizens of Pula, Rijeka, Istria, Kvarner which I can expect, which is the government's plan for 3. May and Uljannik to workers, can they expect these companies to survive or start looking for another job and for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to answer the question whether this government is still standing by shipbuilding as a Croatian strategic industrial branch? And let me warn you of one more thing. 75 days ago, of two of your finance and economy ministers, through the Law on the right to access information, I asked for information concerning certain activities that they had around the Uljaniks and 3. Maya, 75 days later, even though the deadline was 15 days, they didn't give me an answer to those questions. Please respond to your ministers in order to comply with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102043	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102044	Thank you very much, Mr. Grbin, for this matter. As I recall, you were one of those MPs from Istria County who refused to attend a meeting of the government we had in Pula in mid-September, even publicly manifested some of the announcements that I consider to be a single dose of great disrespect for both the government and the county and the city in which you live and which I remember even wanting to be mayor. So it's important that we understand the context of action. Secondly, on this current clock, we have already brought your colleagues from the IDS a little closer to reality. You say the government didn't do anything. You're telling me that as someone who's a Pula SDP who's a lot closer to Uljanika, to the Uljanika administrations, to the people who have been responsible for his business all these years. I feel a tone of transfer of responsibility. And you're not saying that this government, as part of a rehabilitation programme, gave its decision in January a guarantee of 716 million kuna for restructuring and a rehabilitation programme for the Uljanikas. 716 million kuna. Out of these 716 million kuna esteemed MPs, the coat of arms paid for all this year were practically and the workers of the Oilers and Workers 3. Maya. You didn't provide them with that. This government has secured them with these guarantees. The salaries in the 7th and 8th months spent by the quality management of the former administration were again secured by the government. They were not provided by you or provided by another partner who is much closer to the shipyard than this government. So the first eight months that way. The Agency for the Payment of Workers' Searches is now paying these salaries which are legally here in formula 3+3, we know very well both you and I. At the same time, negotiations with the European Commission are being held, at the same time talks are being held by the earlier administration and their consultants of the agreed strategic partner, but we are also holding talks with others who are interested. Do you think maybe that's the theme of the Oilies and the 3rd? Maya was not part of our conversations, for example, with potential partners in China where 40% of world ships are produced today and 45% are ordered. Do you think that possibly interested in Italy come there because they happen to come, have nothing to do and come knocking on the door of the shipyards in Pula and Rijeka? Do you think that partners from Ukraine come with nothing caused to visit and very detailed recording of the situation in Pula and Rijeka? They come there because we're talking to them, because we're trying to find a solution to a problem that's accumulated for years. Also what is particularly important at this time and it is good that the public and it knows it, while your parliamentary majority, while your government was in the period from September to November 2015, was given me the most guarantees that are now coming, the state guarantees that are now being protested by this government where we are coming into the situation that a 100% surplus is coming to us because of the guarantees issued to Uljanika. Therefore, do not transfer to us the responsibility of the administration and the responsibility of those who are much closer there. We do everything for the company and workers and do not raise our hands from Croatian shipbuilding but are looking for new partners but on other market conditions both towards the Commission and workers and trade unions that we have all made clear at the meeting And at a time where you didn't want to come to the government. [[President-in-Office: Prime Minister, thank you./]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102045	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102046	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, it is true, I refused to attend the meeting because on an explicit question whether or not I would be entitled to ask a question at the meeting. I got an answer from your office that I wouldn't. And I have no intention of being anyone, especially you. It is true that, in January of this year, you gave guarantees for this 716 million kuna loan. However, what was the condition for this loan? To draw up a restructuring plan within six months. Who's making the restructuring plan? Management. What's management? Incapacitated. Who told you management was incompetent? We do. We asked you to represent the largest individual owner and thus the 3rd. May you react and change management. Why did you answer that question? We won't. After that, just over a month ago, you came to the congregation, sent your representatives to the Uljanic Assembly, refused to vote for members of the Supervisory Board, or to propose yours. What happened? For a society in restructuring, the Supervisory Board had to appoint a court. So in the last 10 months, you've done everything you could to repay, to repay, to withdraw the proceedings and you've brought the Oil Man into the situation he's in right now. I didn't want to turn this debate into a controversy, it's very clear from a ton of questions I've asked you. I asked for an answer to very specific questions. You haven't given me an answer to any of the specific questions. And it just shows, it just shows what's a feature of your entire mandate, and it's reluctant, it's a mess and it's a transfer of responsibility to others. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, the only thing you did when we draw the line is to add new guarantees that the citizens of this country will have to pay and nothing else. You've extended the crisis to Uljanika, you've thrown the firm on your knees, and now you're washing your hands of responsibility. You may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102047	Thank you. Let's move on, MP Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj, the question asks Davor Bozinovic, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102048	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, members of the government. My question concerns the current problems faced by members of the family of national minorities with a permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, it is the citizens of the Republic of Kosovo, who have lived in the Republic of Kosovo for more than 20 years and who have been successfully integrated into Croatian society. At the same time, members of their family's ropes are Croatian citizens. So the problem arises when submitting requests for admission to Croatian citizenship where the Ministry of Interior asks applicants to, in addition to evidence of the release of citizenship of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia and the evidence of discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, where the government's decision to recognise the Republic of Kosovo as an independent and sovereign state is completely ignored. In addition, we also have legal regulations such as Article 8(3). The law on Croatian citizenship, which reads: "If a foreign state does not allow for discharge or lay down assumptions that cannot be met, a person who has applied to be denied foreign citizenship is sufficient." The article was also recognised by court practice, which took the view that as evidence of discharge from citizenship, sufficient statements by a person to deny foreign citizenship by obtaining Croatian citizenship. My question is whether, in the particular case of a request for proof of discharge of nationality, a country other than the country of origin of the applicant comes to Let me finish. [[Intruder President: Thank you, finish with the question only.]] There's a violation of the law? [[President: Finish but speed up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102050	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, that this is the issue of the Law on Croatian Citizenship, Article 8 which regulates the way of birth is therefore for all persons who have achieved the right of residence in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to foreigners among other conditions, what has to be fulfilled is that a person submits evidence of a write-off from earlier citizenship or evidence that after receiving Croatian citizenship it will cease citizenship earlier in the country in which it is registered in the book of citizens. So, according to our law, it is very clear that it is not allowed to retain another state's citizenship. When admitted to Croatian citizenship at birth. And it is also important to clearly establish the status of citizens. Now that we're talking about a particular problem, he exists, but he's not like that if I may say so dimensionally, that's how it's presented. In fact, the interior ministry cannot be deafened to the fact that someone owns the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. It is that a large number of people who came as you yourself said 20 years ago, who are integrated into Croatian society, have done so with the amendments of the Republic of Serbia. However, just by respecting this situation, there is a guarantee institute where within 2 years they are given the opportunity to or, to get that write-off from citizenship or to bring proof that they will get a write-off from citizenship once they become citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, by saying what the ministry has done, just so that people do not have any inconvenience, 2 are issued in such cases, one that can be presented to the authorities of the Republic of Kosovo and another that can be presented in parts of the government of the Republic of Serbia. So to avoid any inconvenience. The practice of which the Ministry of the Interior, on this matter and there, shows that one significant number is no. People acted on these cracks, addressed here in Croatia and the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia and the general consulates. They received completed papers and obtained the right to write-off from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia and to obtain citizenship from the Republic of Croatia. In other words, here if you want in the 167th since 2008, explicitly so 898 people from Kosovo have resolved the issue of citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. What we noticed was that there was no. people who are reluctant to address the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, who have specific questions, that is to say, choose to address the case, but we are not talking about the general trend.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102051	Thank you. There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102052	Thank you very much. I'm partially satisfied with your answer, and I'm going to contact you because I have a number of people who came at the time when they were minors, and now they're minors and they don't know what their homeland is anymore. So, here, I hope the Ministry of the Interior starts to apply an article. 8. The law on citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102053	Now MP Branko Hrg will ask Oleg Butkovic, the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102054	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, here, after the project of building the Pelješko Bridge was finally launched, which should always be congratulated from the beginning and said that this is a great thing, I am speaking again with the question, since at the time of the adoption of the budget and the projections for 2019, 2020, 2021 with the question of continuing the construction of the Podravski Ipslon, which are the arms of the Farkaševec towards Bjelovar and the arms of the Križevci towards Koprivnica. In fact, when the construction of the Podravic Ipsilon once began, the attitude was established that construction would be done by the so-called so-called construction. a meter-to-meter model. Meter to Bjelovar, meter to Koprivnica. You've recently been to Koprivnica, we've held a meeting, there's been very detailed consideration of all these elements and possibilities of continuing construction, since now, I say we're bringing programs for the next year and those two back, please let us once again here, today say exactly what is planned. Is that build-up going to work on that model meter by meter? Because in the materials of the Croatian Roads, it is likely that only the shares of Križevci Vojakovci Kloštar are listed by mistake, and that is to say the shares of Križevci Koprivnica, it is only part of that stock, while the shares of Farkaševac Bjelovar are fully listed. Also, no tender has been opened for the construction of overpasses in Križevci near the railway station, so if you have information about what happened with this and when can be expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102055	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102056	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, as you have stated, I was with my associates, at a meeting in Koprivnička Krvačka County, together with the mayor and his associates, were also present and all parliamentary representatives, either the position or the opposition from that part, from that county. And we talked about all the traffic issues and the resolution and other traffic issues, except for the sub-level ipsilon that you listed the question for. As for the continuation of the construction of the sub-level ipsilon from the Križevci towards Koprivnica, it will be done phasely and designed phasely, in that part of Croatia's roads in their plan provided the necessary 156 million kn for the first phase from the Križevci to Klostr Vojakovici. And, of course, the entire section, up to Kopirnica is designed and, of course, with the completion and firstly the realization of spatial plans in the area of Koprivnica Cruise County and the definition of this route will provide the means to continue and stock towards Koprivnica. But what is now clear is that in 2019 we will launch a tender for this first phase to Klostr Yokavacki. As for the other traffic projects, we also discussed the restoration of state roads D10 and D12 and as far as these... There have been some problems with the outcome and resolution of documentation in the D22 Križevci and the construction of overpasses above the railway line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The legal interest is being resolved at this time and a request for a building permit will be submitted and a tender will be opened for the total amount of 40 million kn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102057	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102058	Thank you very much. Here, just to repeat this, you really need to see the possibility of these reasons of Croatian roads, so this stock looks as whole as the Križevci Koprivnica, because it is not right that the name of these shares should be kicked out of part, although the shares from Klostr Vojakovaki to Križevci are absolutely in the area and the construction itself will help largely the passengers travelling from Koprivnica and also to the citizens of Križevci, since all traffic is going through the city center and now it is really creating major problems. Here, I'm glad for the overpass too, I saw that the funds were planned over 2 years for its construction in this amount, which you said of 40 and almost 2 million kn. I know there can always be problems with the outcome of the documentation, that there can be something stuck, but it's important to find it in the programs and that we can say that this construction is going on, that this process is going on, so that this space of the Republic of Croatia can develop as well as those that have received traffic infrastructure so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102059	Now let's go to question 32, Representative Kresso Beljak, asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102060	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. First, I'm going to give you a compliment, and you can see that the political function of the Prime Minister stands well, unlike the vast majority of other politicians, who are getting older and older from day to day, who are more and more expendable, you are getting younger and younger, and I really congratulate you, it seems to be your function. But I'm interested in how you felt as a person who neither ideologically nor technically, nor anything related to HDZ until 2011, had no idea how you felt in the company of creators of the privatisation of HDZ in the '90s. Mr. at the promotion of your recent deputy. Martin Dalic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102061	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102062	Mr. Beljak, where do you come from on these issues of criminal offenses, uniform reflections, where do you come from? Thank you for this compliment on youth, but our years count, equally, I think, as far as production is concerned. I see that in a very rude way you are alluding indirectly, I can say indirectly, even, I can say, to the work of the entire government, when it comes to solving the biggest systemic crisis, which has threatened the Croatian economy and the financial system, which is the crisis in the system of Agrokora. And you join that part, which as if it didn't see what you'd like as an HSS, with your name still being your name, although I can see, if no one had cried for you in Helsinki that you weren't either of your representatives, just so you know within the European People's Party, but you should take care of, at least a little bit about the OPGs, about small farmers, about people who might be in some way, or at least by... Nostalgia potential HSS voters, to think what they say about the whole process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps they are pleased that they have paid off in the process. Ask them a little. Ask those who won, which they wouldn't otherwise get, if everything had failed and had been a series of uncontrollable bankruptcys. Ask some medium and large suppliers, ask other Croatian companies if they have managed to charge a large part of the old debt, a large part of the border debt, much more than in any other context comparable to the restructuring of such a large company, which has itself the most important, retail chain, otherwise it is a practice. Ask them if they've got time to consolidate, if they're working today, if they've stayed on the market. Ask them that. It is very important that you ask them to hear their attitude. Ask at the end of the employee of Agrokor. Ask these 30,000 people in Croatia and so many others in neighbouring countries if they are happy to have paid, whether they are happy to have a job, whether they are happy, that the process, which lasted a long time and ended with a settlement confirmed in the High Court of Commerce, the Law confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, a law recognised in many other jurisdictions, became part of the annex of the European regulation, which deals with the Indonesian laws, the EU Member States, and where what we all needed to get together, a little more than table and agenda, a lot worse, did not happen. Ask all those actors, who may think that this whole process was meant to achieve a fundamental goal. Ask them. So then contextualise your inquiry about whether the Deputy Prime Minister who was in charge of the process at that stage of the government's work and the economy minister made a constructive and important contribution. I think so. I think that fact, which among other things represents a certain reform, a way of doing business in the Republic of Croatia, a significant contribution, with a number of problems inherited, and we were just talking about the Uljanic, who was dealing with this government, and he wasn't the only one who was supposed to deal with it, whether we were planning it or not. And that's what's important, Mr. Beljak, it can serve you as an orientation to figure out where we took the HSS, up, left, right, down, downtown, into the green, to Amsterdam, wherever you want. I'm sorry about one pretty partner among the regiments, you've transformed to unrecognizable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102063	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102064	I'm sorry for your reaction, honestly, I commended you, but I'm sorry you're nervous, so you're going to answer in a very annoying and very rude way. Very rude. You mention HSS, you're HDZ, you're the president of HDZ, which still owes 700 grand to the HSS. That to your dear former partner, who will never raise his hand again, for one thing, which you, as a party, do not belong to Mr Plenkovic. You can be rude, you can be boastful, you can be anything you want, but you can't run away from the fact that Kresho Beljak, whatever he is in 1991 at the age of 20, we're the same generation, left the first year of college and went to war. Where were you then, Mr. Plenkovic? Where were you? Did you take the gun and go to defend your country like Millian Brkic or me who are the same generation? You're not, but you know how to get your hands on it, and you know how to be rude. Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has joined you in HDZ. You know, that's very well known. Tell me I'm wrong. You were joined by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor and before that you did not belong ideologically or technically to HDZ. And don't call HSS, HSS is a 114-year-old party. The HSS is a party that will be discussed for 114 years in a positive way. You'll be talked about in a negative way. And in the end, you personally had the chance, because without you, HDZ would never win the election, ever. So you won the election, not HDZ. You, a nice, smooth, decent face but the same old thief, no HDZ. You've had a historic opportunity to do something from both HDZ and our homeland. You didn't do anything but hang out with the same people you don't have anything to do with, you get yourself dirty with people who are completely social property that was inherited by 1/1, and you steal from privatisation crime. There's no other, there's no third. Don't be angry, I had to say it, unfortunately how did you...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102065	.../Intruder President: Thank you. Comrade Whiteman, time's up. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102066	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102067	Let's go to the question of Envoy Sinisha Hajdas Doncic, who points to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102068	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister, before cca. A World Bank report on competitiveness called Doing Busniess has been published for 2 weeks. According to this report, Croatia has fallen seven places, so let me be a little bit visual. So at the time of the HDZ government, I speak from, say, 2016 to 2019, where 2 years of your term of office and we came from 40th place to 58th, so 7 places we fell. Now, why does it matter? Why is competitiveness important? So it can be observed on micro-level, on mesorazine, on macro-raise. Let's look at this competitiveness at state or state level, so we can compare. So, what do the data say? The data says we've fallen into social capital, we're 112 in the world. The data says we're in the construction license category at 159th place. In the start-up category at 123 places. In the insolvency resolution category 59. That we are poor at the efficiency of the judiciary, by the diversity of labour force, by the efficiency of railways and seaports and by the development of critical thinking about school, the government's orientation towards the future. Now, what's my question? Are you aware of your responsibilities and responsibilities of your government for such a drastic fall in something we can compare to telling other countries that are also calling for some innovation, for investing in energy, for investing in future technology and for creating a good mile? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102069	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102070	Thank you very much. Representative Hajdas Doncic, as regards the scales of doing business, you probably as a former member of the government, you know how it is done, certain people who work for part of the World Bank that deals with this scale are talking to a number of actors in Croatia. You even have their list there and then they according to how they evaluate the situation in their country conveys various information to those who end up doing the score. We even went up in absolute numbers compared to last year, but some other countries, i.e. those who interviewed in other countries, were a little more patriotically oriented, so they jumped on those lists. That list can serve as an orientation and as an incentive. Encouragement to accomplish three basic things, and I just said that to your colleague Kovac. 3 basic things that are the backbone of this government's policy, the policies of our programme and changing things in Croatian society and in Croatia, and ultimately in the Croatian economy for the better. The first and centre point is fiscal consolidation. Unlike your time, we made a surplus of 3 billion and 150 million kuna last year. It's important to keep that in mind, so fiscal consolidation. If there weren't any of these numerous guarantees your government issued towards the Oilman, which are now protesting against us, I would sign you to make sure that the surpluses in 2018 are approximately 3 billion kuna. If you look at how the credit rating agencies look at us, but just all three of them and MOODYS and FITCH and Standard & Poor's have either raised our credit ratings for a level or raised our chances from stable to positive. So those watching us look very cold and very detailed and it is relevant that we are only one step below the investment rating which is our ambition until the end of the government's term. Also when it comes to structural reforms and tax that will, when this comes into effect on January 1st, relieve Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs of 6.3 billion kuna, I see it as a plus. When it comes to creating a favourable business atmosphere for investors because investments are the third part of that triangle is also positive, this year when we look at an annual level of more foreign investment than ever in the Republic of Croatia as much as 2 billion euros. When you look at reform in the judiciary, what we have adopted in this House, from rationalising to increasing efficiency, reducing unsolved cases and greater reliability and impartiality of the legal system also positively. A peace reform that no one has touched at all in today's current watch as well as the issue of the situation in BiH after the general elections. You have a situation that we will try to make this system better and better, sustainablely adequate with larger pensions, especially those of the lowest pensions. Continuing reform of the state administration that will be very comprehensive in strengthening, decentralising the counties, connecting the state administration's office with counties with the consent of all counties, including those in which the authorities also have opposition parties. Continuing educational reform, more investment in higher education and science, the implementation of what is going on in this year in an experimental phase with an adequate evaluation of the wider, raising competitiveness, monitoring the trends of digital society, increasing investment and ultimately innovation. These are the four things that our policy is going to be about, to make us better ina do business next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102071	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102072	The data simply deny you, they're clear, they're exact. They're clear by the numbers, by the fall of competitiveness. What you should do, therefore as Prime Minister, is to speed up 4 or 5 true reforms to which certain tabular displays apply. So some also concern your coalition ally Milan Bandic because it is precisely these reports or reports that compare the price of water or municipal contributions from the capitals. So let's say the city of Zagreb is 20 times more expensive than Warsaw. So that's one of the indicators. As for the so-called. Your fiscal responsibilities, I can tell you that you are using Hebrang's tutor to some. And you know what that means? That you're not actually lying, but you're not telling the truth. And you know the answer to that? It's very simple, because in the last 10 years, the share of the country in total GDP has increased 4%. Also, the net effect of EU funds makes you about 12 billion kuna, I will say revenues to the Republic of Croatia's budget. And so you can actually be in what you belong to and that's so-called. Hebrang's instruction that you can tell the truth and at the same time you can lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102073	The next question will be that of the respected representative Tomislav Lipošak, who will be appointed by Environment and Energy Minister Tomislav Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102074	I would like to thank Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with the ministers. My question was addressed to Minister of Environment and Energy Minister Coric. Namely, Plitvice Lakes are the oldest and oldest national park in the Republic of Croatia, and since 1979 they have been on the UNESCO World Heritage List. And as such they are certainly one of the feathers and not just continental tourism in the Republic of Croatia. And all of us who are in the wider area, in the wider ring of the national park, and thus my entire Karlovac County, we have many benefits and many benefits and opportunities especially related to tourism. And for this very reason, I am curious about the situation in Plitvice Lakes National Park and what seems to be the problem of wastewater that we have been able to hear and read about in the media lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102075	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102076	Thank you very much, Mr. Liposchack, for this matter of yours. So by coming to the Ministry of Environment and Energy, I did not find the happiest situation in the area of Plitvice Lake National Park. This pearl for which you say really its positive effects of visitation and its tourist attractions on the whole, not only of Karlovac County but also in a much wider area, the entire Republic of Croatia has demanded definitely a hasty action. And what we've done in the last year and a few days, I believe it's on a pretty good track, and in the end, they're showing UNESCO reports. In fact, what I would like to stress is the fact that in the 6th month of this year, during the month of June, the rehabilitation of the water network in the Plitvice Lakes area began, which will include the accession, i.e. the construction of connections for the places of Rakovica, Korenica and Plitvica Selo on the one hand. In the summer months there is also a clearing of the cave or drill of Rastovac and we have solved this problem. And also on the basis of our action plan to tackle the problems of Plitvice Lakes, we have finally equipped over the past months with a mobile wastewater treatment device, and this mobile device should start working by the end of this month, the value of the purchase of just over 7 million kunas. What I would like to point out is that all these actions and actions of short-term nature have been launched. The problem has been solved, however, long-term solution to Plitvice Lakes' problem we see above all in the construction of Plitvice Lakes' agglomeration. The project is worth just over 300 million kuna and this project of agglomeration of Plitvice Lakes at this point is at the final stage of reaching out to Jaspers will be submitted by the end of this year. What I would certainly like to emphasise is the fact that the Plitvice Lakes National Park itself has taken certain actions. First of all, I am talking about improving the infrastructure on the one hand, but also what is very important is the development of a new park management plan. He's also in the final phase. Finally, I would like to stress that given the urgency of the situation at some point we have reacted through inspections, final changes and additions to the National Park Plitvice Lakes' spatial plan have been launched. So, a whole series of activities that will ultimately lead us to that desired state, which is primarily conservation, let's just say, the situation that should have always been in the Plitvice Lakes area, so as our own, you said the most famous park on the one hand, on the other side of one of our 8 pearls, on the other side of the national parks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102077	Thank you. Honorable representative Tomislav Liposjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102078	I thank the Minister for his reply and express my satisfaction with the answer. And, of course, I welcome all the efforts this government is making to preserve the area of Plitvice Lakes National Park, because it is also indirect, and it is also directly long-term that it takes care of nature protection itself, but also of the future and development of our tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102079	The next question will be asked by the respected representative Petar Škorić and by the Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr. Marko Pavic, please welcome colleague Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102080	Thank you, well-respected Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister and Honored Minister, so here is my question to Mr. Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Pavic. Dear Mr. Pavić, we know that over a year ago you started the Employment Programme to wish for more than one billion kuna, he represents a great social measure because he employs older women, so the older person of life has recently been awarded contracts for the Programme of Wishes in the Split-Dalmatia County to whom more than 32 million kunas were awarded. In your presentation at the time, you pointed out that Split-Dalmatia County is 3 counties by using this programme, which currently employs over 600 people, 50 of which is in the town of Split. This measure is particularly important and recognised in our Dalmatian Zagora where employment opportunities are reduced, and it is also important for the population policy and the rest of the population in Dalmatia. After a year of opening the programme, can you sum up the results of women's employment within the Programme wishes, with a look-seeing right here at the Split-Dalmatia County, and also from the point of view of the lack of skilled labour, I primarily think about tourism but also about other countries of the economy what the current state of the labour market is and what you are currently doing in terms of active employment policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102081	The reply of the respected Minister Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102082	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Skoric, Honorable MPs, fellow ministers, the Program is precisely one of the most beautiful programs we implement, a billion kuna for employment, 7,000 women who will help over 35,000 old households. Of these billions of kunas, we've contracted 800 million kunas so far and by the end of the year we'll have agreed on the other 200 million. A total of 5,600 women have been employed so far, of whom you well pointed out were almost 600 women employed in Split-Dalmatia County. The first by number of applications is Osijek-Baranja, the second is Vukovar-Srijemska, the third is Split-Dalmatia County with 105 million kuna, of which we have so far agreed 93 million kuna with which to employ more than 600 women. What I would like to point out is that this is the core of the European Social Fund, that on the one hand we have the employment of older women in rural areas, on the other hand deinstitutionalisation and assistance to our older households. We do similar programmes from other European Social Fund tenders in two years of the term of office of this government, never again the funds for employment, 4.5 billion kuna that we invested in employment, just this year 1.6 billion kuna, active employment policy measures and a billion kunas of special programmes such as wishes. What we've concentrated on is we're just trying to activate the Croatian workforce, and that's exactly what we've joined pro-actively in solving this problem. The current state of the labour market is that we have just released EUROSTAT statistics was the lowest unemployment rate in the history of 7.7%. At the same time, we also have an increase in the number of employees 71 thousand more employees this year than a year earlier. What we activated during the tourist season, I thank this Minister Cappelli that we had a situation that we had surveyed all the unemployed in the Republic and brought them together on tourism day 24 thousand expressed a desire to work in tourism, brought them together with employers. We will have a similar pro-active approach both in the building and in all other sectors, to ensure that we activate our domestic workforce. What we can't find on the domestic market we secured through the import quotas yesterday and the day before yesterday was the Minister of Ukrainian, Minister of Social and Labour Mr.../incomprehensible/... we had a great meeting with the Prime Minister, where it was concluded that we would quickly finalise the labour mobility agreements between Croatia and Ukraine. To return to the Split-Dalmatia County is indeed a great success of these 105 million kunas especially for our Zagora, which I certainly thank the Mayor Blaženko Boban, who has personally motivated cities and municipalities, especially for the purpose of applying for this competition. In addition, we have numerous other competitions such as competitions for employment in local ice communities, where we have secured 2 million kunas per county, programmes for the employment of people with disabilities, young people and everything else, so the situation is stable, we are working on the employment of Croatian labour force and we are investing large funds in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102083	Dear Representative Petar Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102084	Thank you very much, so here I am pleased with the answer especially when we see the structure, so the people who are employed from the county who are targeted, so our eastern and Dalmatian Zagora see that what you said yourself about the social fund is that this is a targeted and well-hit measure. We would like, in some ways, to have other such measures in other areas and to be monitored by all the ministries, therefore, particularly related to this deficitary part of the workforce that we're going to be asking for from the imports, so here we are through schooling to follow it. Al, in view of the growing problem of the lack of qualified labour in tourism, I recommend that, in addition to the measures you carry out on a permanent season and training at the workplace of preparation and other adequate employment measures in tourism because we know that this is a major problem that is expressed above in Split-Dalmatin County at all because many employers cannot actually use existing employment measures for the great fluctuation of seasonal staff that is practically changing after the season. So I think even in this form another targeted measure would make a lot of progress and improve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102085	Thank you. The next question will be the respected representative of Davor Lončar and will be appointed by Croatian Defence Minister Tommy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102087	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Prime Minister with ministers. The Honorable Ministers of Croatian Defence. We are aware that for the third year in a row, the Croatian Defence Ministry has organised a programme of preventive systematic examinations for Croatian defenders. This project is aimed at preventing and early detection of chronic infectious diseases, non-infectious diseases, has proved to be highly justified. According to the information available from a total of 16 thousand Croatian defenders who have received 48% recommendation from further recommendations and treatments to date, 46% have received a recommendation to carry out additional procedures and reviews. I wonder, is something being done for Croatian defenders who have already suffered serious illnesses and have we failed in this part of our care for Croatian defenders? And what do you do to help those Croatian defenders for whom treatment does not produce results that are not forgotten but that the rest of their lives live with as little pain and more dignity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102088	The reply of the esteemed Croatian Defence Minister Tom Medved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow ministers. Dear Representative Lončar, one of the absolute priority activities and measures implemented by the Croatian Defence Ministry is aimed at caring for the health of Croatian defenders. In 2016, we launched a pilot project to carry out preventive systematic examinations and during 2017 and 2018, all in order to detect oncological, cardiovascular and other chronic non-infectious diseases, we signed a contract with 30 health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. And thus, to this day 33800 preventive medical examinations have been carried out. All this is in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, your information is correct that more than 44% of Croatian defenders who have passed a preventive medical examination or have been detained for hospitalisation or have been referred to additional specialist tests. Of course, we disappear with a measure of preventive medical examinations and because of the growing number of Croatian defenders seeking support in the form of palitative care along with their families who are also in a difficult position with sick Croatian defenders and who daily address us with this problem that we have launched within an integrated model of palitative care to provide a certain number of patients with the status of Croatian defenders. And to this end, we have launched a model of agreement in cooperation with special hospitals for extended treatment, whose signing will begin to carry out paliative care for Croatian defenders. The above-mentioned agreement will provide additional beds for palitative care and long-term treatment beds, increased care for patients with Croatian defence status. The Croatian Defence Ministry will provide the basis of the agreed agreements with adequate palitative health care for Croatian defenders and after a limited time limit of 20 days for which the Croatian Health Insurance Office is financed by the stay of insurance companies in the departments of paliatical care. The difference in the price of stay in the Paliatical Department, financed by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, will be settled on the basis of the recommendation of the specialist doctor and taking into account the overall social situation in which Croatian defenders are located. I would certainly like to stress that the paralytic concern in the Republic of Croatia is an integrated model of care whose fundamental holders are the existing elements of the health care system at the primary and hospital level and social care, which is why the palitative care for Croatian defenders is not established as a parallel system in relation to palitative care is already being developed in line with the specific needs of this population. The presentation and guidelines for the development of paliative care in the Republic of Croatia are contained in the national development plan of the Paliative Care from 2017 to 2020 in which Croatian defenders are identified as a special vulnerabilities dedicated to special attention and models of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102090	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102091	Thank you Ministers for taking care of the Croatian defenders both you and the Government and I hope that through the health checks of the defender we will continue to provide additional financial resources to protect our defenders. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102092	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic, and that of the culture minister, the respected Nina Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102093	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My respects to the Prime Minister and to all present ministers and ministers. A question I would like to ask the Minister of Culture Dr. The wearing of Koržinek is related to the national reform and contribution programme, i.e. the participation of the Ministry of Culture in the reform processes. I am interested in whether the Ministry of Culture participates and contributes to the National Reform Programme, in particular with regard to administrative redundancies and in general with regard to the development of the economy, and in this context I am interested in whether there are measures or activities in the culture that have been taken so far and whether there are also new measures and new activities that the Ministry of Culture intends to take in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102094	The reply of the respected culture minister Mrs. Nina Oblisen Kozinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102095	Thank you, Madam MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Well, the truth is, regardless of how much a portfolio is represented in the national reform programme itself according to the government's programme, there is actually a whole series of activities going on. As far as cultural resources are concerned, I would point out three areas. The first question is the protection and preservation of cultural goods where actually one major impact of our service is actually on the dynamics and licensing and approval of new investments. There may be two of the biggest reform procedures by changing the treatment of contact zones where we will exclude them from the process of obtaining concrete permits by the conservatives. In fact, we will include all the conditions in accordance with the new law in spatial planning documentation and significantly speed up procedures. On the other hand, here in a few days will come into force the License Policy. We suspend the renewal of licenses, they will ensure that everyone involved in these works is permanently provided. In addition, we will free the contractors of the works, the need to issue licences, it will significantly facilitate and make it more transparent, especially those procedures where different companies appear for public procurement. Another area that is very important, the area of digitisation, there I should probably point out what will be a disbursement for entrepreneurs by full implementation of the new Archive Act where all archival material produced by digital form, in digital form and stored, will be a major discharge both in terms of cost and in terms of the need for space. And the third important area is the entire area of cultural and creative industries. I would especially like to highlight the area of audiovisual activity here. Certainly a question of investment incentives. The Republic of Croatia has been showing itself for the past few months since we raised incentives from 20% to 25%, and especially these 30% of the incentives if they are invested in areas that, in accordance with regional development regulations, are less developed and we see interest here, therefore, in other words making films in less developed areas, which can also encourage the tourism economy in this area, but also many other services. Sure area, here is Interliber, after which comes Infogamer, an area of video games that we, as the Government, have included in the Law on Audiovisual Activities and have allowed them to also participate in incentives, we expect that significant investment. We know that our video game industry is extremely successful, here a few months ago was the fact that a Croatian video game was the most sold video game in the world that month. So these are the areas of cultural and creative industries. And what I would still point out now in this tax reform, therefore, is a 13% reduction in VAT for the supply of authoric independent artists. It will also be an incentive one, and through the announced Art Activity Act, we plan in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance another series of incentives to invest in culture, in line with additional incentives for donors and cultural sponsors, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102096	Dear representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102097	Thank you very much. I thank the minister for her reply. I'm pleased. What I consider particularly important among all these measures of the Minister you have listed is therefore, among other things, the ones that arise from the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, especially those, as you yourself have explained, which are related to the definition of the contact zone in cultural goods that are entered in the World Heritage List, whereby the procedures in the contact area of cultural goods are completely, therefore, released administrative procedure in the competent conservation department, and the whole procedure is then put directly into the framework, therefore, of the documents relating to the building permit and spatial regulation, and I think that it is quite important, and you have said so among other things, in the same law, so those provisions are quite important, and you have often mentioned them, which are related to determining the use of the right of the first purchase of local self-government units when it is, therefore, in the area of legal property, that they are therefore, in fact, in which they are easier, in fact, in which they are, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in relation to which they are legal, in relation to which they are relevant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102098	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by the respected representative Zdravko Ronko, Deputy Prime Minister and Agriculture Minister Mr Tomislav Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102099	Thank you very much. ... It's a beautiful work, but it won't be hard. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll take one piece out in EUR, so I'd like you to answer that part in the EUR. Therefore, of the 2.4 billion that we are destined for under the Rural Development Programme for 2014, 2020, 567 million relate to measures 4, and 226 million to measures 6. So I would like to, and I think it would be very good to firsthand find out how much each of these measures has been paid to our farmers, I repeat not agreed, not approved, but how paid. In my view, it would be even more interesting to hear firsthand how much of these friends, relatives, wood growers, nail manufacturers, building material dealers have obtained, have collected funds from these measures so far, and how many are still waiting to pick up millions and millions from the titles of these measures even though they have nothing to do with agriculture except create artificial and often thickly wronged conditions for this to happen. And certainly for what the paying agency serves in the farm, they neither refuse them, nor file criminal charges, they are mostly acidified and awaited, and now the question is what they are waiting for, whether they are waiting for dust to fall or waiting for something third. And here's another very short thing, if after the auditor, OLAFA and other these controls from The European Union, the Republic of Croatia, will be sanctioned, as you see it in terms of [[Intruder: Thank you.]] responsibilities, and I'm done trusting that agency company. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102100	The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102101	Thank you to Mr. Ronk for asking questions. The exact data for measure 4 and measure 6 with these details will be provided in writing to you now, I really don't know. Of the 2.4 billion Euros available to us, about 85% of the total location has been recorded somewhere around 53% or 54% of allotted by 27%, and hopefully by the end of the year and over 30% of allotment has been paid. I expect that by 2020 or by the end of 2020 we will actually spend the entire alocation, practically by next year we will be looking at the full alocation, which means 100%. For any case, I ask you to come to the agency if you're interested, to check yourself, to make sure that you go to ARPA, to OLAF, I can come with you, I think it's much nicer than to tell stories that are absolutely not standing, but I'd be glad to have all those things you're interested in, to personally go with you, to personally make sure that the agency worked during the reign while you were here and your former SDP party, and how it works now. Come, see the papers, see which items are in OLAF then, and which are and whether there are now of those who were. You want to go tomorrow, as soon as we're done with the tight cabinet, we can go to the agency together, we can do it on Friday after the government, whenever or whoever wants to join you feel free to come with me, let's look at every case you're interested in, along with the press, okay? I think that more honest and more transparent than that absolutely can't, just say when you want, my number is the same for the last 15 years, if what you need to call and go and take a look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102102	Dear Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102103	Thank you very much, so you know that with a response like this, I cannot be satisfied, so at first and finally I will say that I am looking for a written answer, and that comprehensive written answer, and as far as my former party is concerned by specific agriculture, I was in a great conflict with the then minister until the criminal application, and you know it very well. However, those of the paying agency who should control such ones should be rejected, so I repeat and criminally appear, so to prevent in some way in fraud they have more butter on their heads than they do and of course there is no bread. The whole team that came to the agency was creating artificial conditions and I repeat often misgeneous and myself, so then you know how it was, from the headmaster to the assistant director, assistant assistant director and so on. And knowledge works for the whole team in key positions at the agency, you know where it came from, it came from a public tender, it was chosen by the board of directors that you were president, but the whole team came from TIM4PIN, founded by Europarliamentary Ivana Maletic, and it is quite a question of how it is, some of the leaders told me that it was a condition for those tendings to who will have a resolution, the agriculture ministry, the regional development ministry or the EU parliament. Well, I'm repeating in the end, I'm asking a comprehensive answer, and I'm going to be very happy to get to you, so let's take a look at it. I'm not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102104	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this has been completed in the morning, thanks to all MPs and MPs, thanks to the Prime Minister and members of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102105	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.33 HOURS]] The report on the meetings of the European Council and of the European Council and of the meeting of the Member States of the Euro area and of the Euro Summit held in Brussels on 17 and 18 October 2018 was therefore held in Brussels on 28 and 29 June 2018. The Prime Minister will submit a report in accordance with Article 2. 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. Before I give my word to the Prime Minister, before he submits the opening statement, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Mark Marulic High School of Slatina, welcome. ... You are now asking the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, to submit a report, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102106	... Parliament, respected and esteemed MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Today I am pleased to present to you a report with the last 4 meetings of the European Council, 2 formal meetings held on 28 and 29 June, one in mid-October, and two informal, one in Sofia in May and one in Salzburg in mid-September. Our meeting in Sofia was marked with 2 topics, primarily digital arenas and innovations, situations and relations with Iran, and EU and US trade relations. Modern technologies are rapidly changing the world and the EU should become previous in advanced technologies and innovation, as they directly contribute to job creation. That is why the proposal for a new, multi-annual financial framework, prepared by the European Commission, significantly increased the amount of funding foreseen for innovation and for the digital economy, is even an increase of 64% and 9.2 billion euros respectively. We considered this meeting and the proposals for completing the Digital Single Market, by the end of this institutional cycle, the EU institutions, thus, up to and including, during 2019, in the EU, this is a very interesting data for Croatia, in the last year more than 8.4 million people were employed in information communication technologies, so in the ICT sector, which is a major increase, compared to 5 years earlier. The comparisons work, Croatia, which also increased No. and share of ICT sector experts, at present total No. employees in these domains are only 35,000. So it's a signal to all of us if we want to move forward with digitization, that we need to invest more in these companies and in this sector. The Croatian IT sector, records continuous annual growth, has accelerated export growth and we need to use available funds from European funds to support this sector and its further war, which will contribute to the digital transformation of Croatian society. In addition to digital technologies, we discussed preparations. For the full application of the Personal Data Protection Regulation, which protects the personal data of our citizens, whether in their private or business capacity, as clients or employees, this regulation and in Croatia came into effect at the end of May of this year, especially for Croatia, was also the summit between the EU countries and the countries of the South East, it was about the initiative of my friend and colleagues, the Bulgarian example of Boyko Borisov, who filled out a gap, which is at European Council level, so, heads of state and government, in terms of dialogue with our neighbouring countries, existed practically 15 years from that 2003 Thessaloniki Summit, Croatia as you know, is leading politics, which is much more open to the enlargement process than it is currently with many EU members. We are in favour of meeting the criteria, estimating the individual achievements of each country, and we are trying already in time to signal what is our successive experience, which is that, despite these systematic preparations covering the basic principles, respecting above all the rule of law, meeting the criteria, according to certain negotiating chapters, should be taken into account in time, the economic aseptics of membership, what we call economic governance, everything that brings the European semester, because Croatia saw that practically overnight, after membership, immediately entered into the procedure of excessive budget deficit, later in the procedure of excessive macroeconomic imbalances. And the whole process should be taken into account, every country that prepares for membership, so, with political, sectoral criteria. We believe that this meeting, organised by Bulgaria, was very good and beneficial, was a fundamental topic of integration. So, the connection in all aspects, from contacts between people, to transport links, the energy connection of the integration infrastructure, is a small number of countries that can't be an island and many of them are not well connected, let alone other parts of the EU, and therefore, together with the conclusions of that meeting, we have included a decision that, during the Croatian Presidency, as we know, will be held in the first half of 2020, another meeting at the summit to be in Zagreb, is our ambition and symbolism to be about 20 years after the Zagreb summit of November 2000, which in many ways was a milestone for the European perspective of the countries of Southeast Europe, and we are convinced that such a meeting at the beginning of the new parliament, the new commission, the new multi-annual financial framework should be drawn up at the highest political level of activity for us neighbouring countries and a further perspective of the enlargement process. The theme that dominated June was the issue of migration. We have then reached agreement on a comprehensive European approach to migration that approach combines effective control of the European Union's external borders, enhanced external action and internal aspects in all three migration directions, the eastern, central and western Mediterranean direction. Although migration flows have been reduced to practically pre-crisis levels, I am talking about the period before 2015 and 2016 so they are smaller by 95% migration movements in the eastern and western Mediterranean direction require full attention. Croatia sees its role in implementing the conclusions of the European Council of June as primarily in protecting its borders, which is also the longest external border of the European Union, not Schengen as I said this morning during the current morning, in particular, to combat illegal migration, preventing the secondary movements of migrants and preventing the opening of new migration routes. By November last year, migration pressure was too heavy at the Croatian eastern borders, so Serbia, and as a result of the increased surveillance of that part of the border, in late 2017, a new route across BiH was activated and the number of illegal crossings at the border from BiH to BiH was increased from 4,100 in 2017 to 6,400 in 2018. Croatia is when it comes to its obligations through the principle of solidarity so far, on the basis of a move from Turkey, relocated 152 people. Based on the government's decision last October, we decided to move an additional 100 refugees from Turkey, which are in need of international protection. Based on the transfers from Greece and Italy so far, we have moved 81 people, 60 from Greece and 20 from Italy. Our proposal in the conclusion of the European Council included a reference on the need to strengthen cooperation with us neighbouring countries in Southeast Europe in the exchange of information on migration flows, the prevention of illegal migration, increased capacity to protect borders and more effective implementation of return procedures and readmission of migrants who do not exercise the right to international protection. When it comes to the internal aspects of migration, it is crucial to reach agreement on the reform of the Common European Asylum Policy. This reform implies the adoption of a package of 7 legislative acts, the biggest stumbling block remains an agreement on the Dublin Regulation because a compromise should be reached on the mandatory mechanism for the distribution of migrants related to the principle of solidarity and the sharing of responsibility. In this respect, we support the Austrian Presidency, which continued to work on a compromise solution which we have also advocated, and to take into account specificities, capacities and economic opportunities of individual Member States when interpreting the principle of solidarity. The biggest progress has been made in achieving the conclusions of June in that section on strengthening the protection of external borders, the next multi-annual financial framework has been significantly strengthened with regard to the Border and Coast Guard Agency, so the former FRONTEX is now called the Border and Coast Guard Agency and is currently expected to have EUR 11.3 billion at present, while Member States will be available to Member States in this new Integrated Border Management Fund to strengthen national capacities and contribute to staff at 9.3 billion. In parallel with an effective and responsible policy that needs to respond to this challenge of migration, Croatia continues to invest all the necessary efforts in completing our preparations for Schengen membership and in a way that we want to meet all the criteria relating to Schengen evaluation, the process started in 2016 when it comes to the legal gain of Schengen and was implemented in 8 areas, it is important to know, to remember very well all these topics is about data protection, common visa policy, the management of external borders, return and readmission, police cooperation, firearm regulations, the Schengen Information System and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. We have made significant progress over the past year and are currently in the phase of meeting all the recommendations. We expect positive assessments in all aspects, and since June 2017. Croatia has accessed the Schengen Information System and 428 million checks have been carried out, over 20,000 documents, persons, vehicles and items wanted. This has shown that we are successfully protecting our own borders than we also play a strong role in strengthening both national and European security. That is why we want to meet the criteria for Schengen the first major integration step following the membership that we all know 5 years ago. As regards the subject of security and defence, we have traditionally heard from NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, who welcomed further strengthening of cooperation between NATO and the European Union, and a number of activities concerning the deepening of Member States' cooperation in the security and defence dimension, above all, the importance of the continued structure of co-operation and the European Defence Fund, which contributes to complementarity and good operational cooperation between NATO and the European Union. We are all in agreement with the assessment that the European Union must take greater responsibility for its own safety and make a great contribution to global security, which we have heard about these days both from Paris and from Strasbourg from President Macron and Chancellor Merkel, which is why we have agreed and continued activities in the area of permanent structured cooperation, project development, and in particular the European Defence Industrial Development Programme, where it is important for the Republic of Croatia to already participate in permanent structured cooperation in several domains. One is military mobility, another is a package of ability to deploy military assistance in the event of disaster, a network of logistics hubs in Europe and support operations, improving maritime surveillance, and rapid response teams and joint action in cybersecurity. In the round of projects to be confirmed on November 19th, a joint meeting of foreign ministers and defence ministers is being held next week. With Austria and Slovenia, we are reporting a surveillance project as a service, in response to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats and that will enable important engagement for the Croatian industry to participate in this project. We believe that it is necessary to integrate both military and civil aspects, and therefore agreed further work to strengthen the civil dimension of the common security defence policy, so this will be done through the development of a compact for civil common security and defence policy by the end of this year, and thus improve the European framework for civil management of crises, as well as numerous civilian missions and EU operations. It also agreed to develop an action plan with concrete proposals for a coordinated Union response to the challenges of misinformation, so this topic in the internet space and time of modern communication has become important for both politics and political institutions of stability and security of countries, and therefore the importance of common communication on resistance to hybrid, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. When it comes to topics relating to jobs, work and competitiveness, we have discussed the issue of trade and digital taxation, and have supported regular recommendations by Member States within the framework of the European Semester that we consider to be the most relevant to the national reform plan and the convergence plan. We agree on the importance of retaining a multilateral trading system based on rules, in particular the World Trade Organisation. They concluded that the introduction of additional US customs duties, remember this topic this spring, imports of aluminium and steel products, cannot be justified, and we supported the adoption of appropriate proportionate measures in line with the provisions of the World Trade Organisation. For us, a particularly important topic, the topic of the agreement on the upcoming multiannual financial framework, was a brief debate in June after the Commission published its proposal for the package, the Republic of Croatia is now taking part for the first time in a truly serious way since the beginning of the serious way of changing the budgetary framework, so for the first time without the United Kingdom, which was one of the 3 largest financial distributors in the European budget. The total amount of the seven-year budget will be EUR 1135 billion, according to the Commission's proposal. Most of the funding, of course, for the financing of cohesion and agricultural policy, although these 2 large budget divisions have been reduced in view of Brexit and the impact of the revenue side. More funds are provided for external activities, digitisation, research, development, migration, border management, so 31 billion euros higher. A new budget for security and defence of EUR 24 and a half billion, and a double budget for e-rasmus plus, therefore, student mobility. Talks are now under way on a negotiating package of Croatian positions that are quite often communicated to the public, as are our ministers who deal with this, foreign finance minister and regional development. It is important for the Republic of Croatia, therefore, in this second financial perspective to keep the funds for cohesion and agricultural policy, above all, because of economic interests and the pursuit of steps with other EU members. We're not prone to new restrictive rules. It is an opposition to increasing national co-financing from 15% to 30%. We are opposed to reducing the pre-financing of the programme to 0.5%, and also to reducing the period of absorption from what is today a Colloquial term called M+3 to M+2 because we believe that we still have to work on our institutional capacities and allow timely withdrawal of funds through the very real optics of our abilities. When it comes to direct payments in agriculture, we want to insist on respecting our obligations under the Accession Treaty since it enables our farmers to develop balanced and increase their competitiveness and sustainability. We are also committed to harmonising the rules of implementation between shared managed and centrally managed programmes in order to enable them to be combined and exploited with full potential. On the income side, we're looking for an end to all rebates. It is important that the public knows, therefore, that it is not just the United Kingdom that has the famous use of the time of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, Germany, and the Netherlands, and Sweden, Denmark and Austria, all those who are major contributors in earlier times negotiated these corrective mechanisms. In December, we will discuss for the first time in a more contentable and slightly longer way the first initial position of the Member States at that level on the multiannual financial framework. There will also be meetings of the countries of Cohesion. One meeting is scheduled in Bratislava at the end of this month, these countries are now 17. The topic that takes a lot of energy away from all of us is very important, it is the issue of the United Kingdom's exit, the negotiations on art. Fifty. At meetings of all European councils, it is practically debated what it is with, without Prime Minister May, but always in principle with chief negotiator Michel Barnier. Our position is very clear when it has already come to this unfortunate referendum of the slaughter has ended as it ended, and in my court very badly for the United Kingdom, and then for all others who have been dealing with this topic for more than two and a half years, it would be of paramount importance that the United Kingdom's exit be arranged and negotiated. Personally, I think it would be a reputation damage for all members and for the Union to come up with a scenario in which they would go out without reaching an agreement on a withdrawal treaty. The latest information yesterday suggests that a new space has been opened and we will see what reactions will be at the level of the United Kingdom government. The fundamental question is the status of Northern Ireland in relation to Ireland and where the issue of the customs union regime will be stopped at this time, whether in Northern Ireland, what the United Kingdom does not want or throughout the territory of the United Kingdom. As regards the rights of Croatian citizens in the context of Brexit, we, as you know, have bilaterally agreed before and with that Decision on the liberalisation of the labour market, have brought our fellow citizens into an absolutely identical position as all others have, all other citizens of other EU members. A few words about the Euro Summit, as you can see recently within the European Council, are being held on the Euro Summits called on by those members of the Union who are not yet in the euro area and who either want to or do not want to be, we belong to those who want to be, because we accepted this in the end line at our 2012 referendum. In June, we invited the Council to continue all activities related to the completion of the banking union, and we also discussed the key elements of the reform of the European Stabilisation Mechanism. The chairman of the Centeno Group also reported on the macroeconomic situation of the Union, which he assessed as favourable and in the context of unemployment and inflation levels, i.e. employment growth. With regard to the reform of the European Stabilisation Mechanism, a clear definition and the role of the coordination of the European Commission and the whole of the mechanism is key and we agreed that an agreement should be reached on the strategic definitions and deepening of the European Monetary Union. We also used these meetings to inform our partners about everything that Croatia is doing in its preparation, particularly the President of Mr Draghi's European Central Bank, about meeting all the criteria of nominal convergence, that is, so-called. Maastricht criteria and related to price stability, long-term interest rates, bankruptcy stability, a budget deficit that decreases by accelerated dynamics compared to public debt as a percentage of GDP. If the procedure relating to macroeconomic imbalances has been significantly reduced and accelerated, we expect positive signals from the European Commission whose delegations have been in Croatia recently. And of course, together with the CNB, we presented and adopted the Strategy for the introduction of the euro. Our efforts have been welcomed, and I also expect that we will follow the Bulgarian model of showing our intention to enter the European Course Mechanism 2 which is one of the first intersteps in achieving the goal of our membership in the euro area. In order to do so in due course when we fully agree, the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the CNB will send a corresponding letter to the President of the European Central Bank and to all the ministers of the euro area and the Commission. The topic that was particularly on the agenda at the last meeting of the European Council, which was put on the agenda on our initiative, was the debate on the results of the general elections in BiH. That's what we agreed in an earlier meeting with European Council President Donald Tusk. I took this opportunity to very clearly and firmly clarify Croatia's views when it comes to what happened in these general elections. We have pointed to the problem of the inaccessibility of the electoral system in BiH, the Electoral Law practically for many years. Unfortunately, the scenario we saw in relation to the representatives of the BiH Croats in 2006, 2010 and now, in 2018, when in the territory of the Federation of BiH, which elects 2 members of the presidency, one from the ranks of the Bosniak people, it is clear by one simple electoral analysis that the Croatian member of the presidency in this case, Mr Komsic, is elected, has no dilemmas, in fact most of the votes of the majority constituent people in the Federation territory, i.e. By the votes of Bosniaks, it is likely by all political analyses that the candidate of the Croatian National Parliament received from those Croats who went to the polls practically 80% of the support and all one thing, however, was at 70,000 votes less than the elected candidate. We believe that such a situation that referred to injustice, which pointed to the fact that the Croatian people in BiH are marginalised in this way, that it is placed in a subordinate position not good, that our partners within the EU, despite all the efforts in this symptomatic process from Dayton Paris to Brussels, have to assume that BiH is important to us, a neighbouring, friendly state, none of these other members have been as much in favour of BiH's European path as Croatia, so I can say this on behalf of my government, on behalf of the formerly certain government of engagements and of our European representatives and all of us who have worked on it. Had it not been for this strong, strong, continuous support for Croatia, it would have been a question of when and if BiH had been in a position to apply for membership. And now practically finalises its additional answers to the European Commission questionnaires and we want her to get a positive opinion on further steps and thus hunts down a step with other countries. In this process, however, it is not good for a constituent people to be in a position that is contrary to both the spirit and the foundations of the Dayton structure of BiH. This topic is rarely being opened at this level, we have talked a lot about it and what was politically important from my point of view is that the performance that I had there was also supported by the Bulgarian Prime Minister and Hungarian and Spanish, supported by the President of France, was also expressed by High Representative Mogerina, who is a little more closely following the topic together with the representatives of the European Commission, but what we have succeeded in and what is a key follow-up and debate that will be discussed at the level of the Foreign Affairs Council, on Monday, at which Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric will speak on behalf of the Croatian Government and Foreign Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric, a very detailed approach to the analysis of the general elections in BiH, and how members of the European Union as such can do in dialogue with BiH political parties that this problem, which is an objectively very unpleasant character for the equality of Croats in BiH, is trying to resolve. Our responsibility is affirmative, so I repeat this once again, so it is not a question of interference in the internal affairs of another country, it is a legitimate advocate to respect the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement, which is a Croatian signator and is also a legitimate concern for Croats as a constructive people in neighbouring BiH, which is absolutely in line with our obligations under the Croatian Constitution. I am therefore pleased that in due time, I believe for 10-15 days and in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the proposal for a Declaration on the position of Croats in BiH, which was drawn up in the phase, is based on the work of our colleagues and especially on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, because I believe that this is a political issue that should be seen as broadly as possible as possible by the European level, but also by other actors in the international community to address the problem. We do not all have the same optics, so the optics of different international actors are not identical to the optics of Croatia and the number of those who know in detail what preceded the Washington Agreement, as the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement happened, which all happened in today's international community is not too big. The institutional memory of the current actors on the European global scene compared to events more than 20 years ago is important different than it was, which time more flows it's harder for someone who doesn't know the history of the relationship to understand what it's about. We must be aware of that, what is not only done to us but also to anyone who is far beyond this topic is not inordinary, but I can tell him quite unknown and not only to the first, but to the second and third and fifth times, more understandablely. But it is our job to work on this subject that I think we have emancipated this in the right way and I expect that at this meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, a further discussion will be held by the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102107	Thanks to the Prime Minister, we have 17 replicas, we're leaving with a colleague, Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102108	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, my question concerns what has become of interest to you in recent days in the Republic of Croatia. You have mentioned something about the Marrakech Agreement. It is evident that you and the President of the Republic do not communicate at all on this matter, you yourself have said that you have not heard from her, that there are certain disagreements, unfortunately very negative messages are being sent to the public, some are also causing hysteria about refugees. We see what the Ombudsman is saying and about relations with certain refugee situations, I am interested in number one, which means whether you talked to the European Council about this problem and whether you finally heard from the President of the Republic, whether you have a common policy on this matter and whether you create joint RS positions on this agreement. This is what the entire Croatian public is interested in, unfortunately we haven't gotten that information in the last few days. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102109	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102110	Thank you very much, MP Maras, it is my very firm impression that you were obviously not in the assembly when I was intensively responding to your colleague Klisovic on this subject, so I will ask him to explain what I said at the time of the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102111	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I warn you that you will probably get what is going on. [[Intruder: Speakers do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102112	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Article 238 was injured, and it is evident to everyone, so Mr. Prime Minister here deals with the position of propriety towards MPs because he can't answer me you need to answer your colleague, Klisovic, I've already told him. So when a man rises to a replica, let him say what he has, and let him not touch the MPs and humiliate them here, you should have warned him, and I ask you to protect and raise counsel and this house. So you have here [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] the right and the possibility to warn him about it. [[Agreement: colleague Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102113	So, there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, nothing has happened that should humiliate anyone and I'm giving you a warning because you've misused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102114	I'm going to choose one topic that I'm sure wasn't about today, so I'll probably get an answer, I hope. So, I'm sorry that the Prime Minister's in charge of the Marrakech Agreement, but since then. We have not heard a comment by the Prime Minister on the case of Nikola Kaikic, a Croatian citizen who was captured a few days ago, arrested at the border at the Bajakovo border crossing and interrogated for several hours, even five hours from the Serbian security information agency, if I am not mistaken and in the context of the Council of the European Council, I would like to hear little about how you are communicating there on the European Council. Have you perhaps communicated there with Serbian counterparts to join the EU and unresolved issues the Republic of Croatia has with Serbia? The reason for Nikola Kaikic's departure to Serbia was among other things, and the claims of Croatian campers who spent 100-100 days in the Republic of Serbia, and I think the topic should be withdrawn on the European Council or that the Republic of Croatia should take advantage of the situation and ask Serbia to get rid of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102115	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102116	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. So, when something like this happens and two Croatian citizens are stopped by the service or police, in this case, the Republic of Serbia, then the first and natural step of these people when they cross the Croatian border to report such a thing to the Croatian police before all others. That didn't happen. So we've been going through everything that's been going on for the past few days. Neither Mr. Kajkic, otherwise suspended police officer at the MUP, nor Mrs. Greguric notified the Croatian police. When, like most Croatian people and citizens, we heard that information from the media, some media, we did everything we could to respond and contact them. We haven't made it in almost two and a half days. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is immediately upon receipt of information protesting to Serbian institutions, the work is both done by the MUP and foreign affairs and security intelligence agencies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They're all Deeply engaged in the protection of our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102117	Here you go, pal. You're the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102118	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government. The European Commission resolutely rejects the new budget of the Italian Government for 2019. We know that there has been a collapse of the Moranda Bridge in Genoa, that there have been major floods in Italy, and that there really are legitimate reasons for increasing the deficit that is again within the master criteria of 3% in line with GDP. I am interested in how will the Croatian government be put in future situations when there will be a discussion on this on the European Council or the Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102119	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102120	When it comes to the destruction of the bridge in Genoa, we responded immediately, expressed our condolences, it is a great tragedy, and something like that should be avoided and invested in the maintenance of such important infrastructure facilities. When it comes to floods or some other kinds of costs, they happened in Italy, but they happen in other countries, there are mechanisms at European level, you have a European Solidarity Fund that seeks to help European funds address such situations. We used to use it in the Republic of Croatia. But here is a matter of systematic character. What, in terms of the coalition, the government is in Italy, which is the logic of their approach to all those obligations arising from fiscal consolidation and fiscal responsibility. In principle, the entire European Semester system must rest on a harmonised respect for obligations. That's what we do. That's exactly what I was talking about. So that someone who enters the EU tomorrow doesn't see at all from their optics waiting around the corner And that's the point. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's why we're gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102121	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102122	Your Honor, Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you about herbicide glyphosate. It's about the fact that there's already been a rightful verdict in America that this herbicide has been poisoned, that it's actually causing cancer. And Monsanto had to. They will have to pay compensation and there are thousands of these claims that claim the same thing, that the cause of Monsant’s disease, or Bajer’s herbicide glyphosate. Why am I saying this? Because in the Republic of Croatia this Herbicide is still legal and can still be bought and is still available. I wonder when the Republic of Croatia plans to stop selling this for the health of dangerous herbicide? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102123	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102124	The Minister of Agriculture will answer. It wasn't the subject of these meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102125	We're going to the fifth line. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102126	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Here, we read from these reports that you are keeping close company with Mr. Tusk, the former Polish Prime Minister and now President of the European Council, so would you do me a favor, that is, to all of us and ask the next time you see Mr. Tusk, for which reason did he lift the second pension column in Poland and did that bring any benefits or damage to Poland? I am asking this because the Republic of Croatia is the only one of the former post-communist countries who insists on a harmful model of compulsory pension funds that has caused a budget gap of around 200 billion kuna and which will very quickly cause the growth of Croatia's GDP to slow down, as we see already in the announcement of the 2019 budget, where you must reopen the budget deficit, given that you simply cannot generate growth any more in any other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102127	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102128	Thank you very much, Mr. Bunjac. I'll ask him about Poland's experiences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102129	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102130	Dear Prime Minister, in your report you spoke of migration and I would be interested to know if you had spoken to the Austrian Chancellor, asked him what was controversial about him in this global compact, or the Marrakech Agreement? I would also ask you how do you comment on the statement by the President of the European Commission that came with the high one, which has told the countries that express some kind of reserve under this Agreement, that they have not even read the Agreement? And do you think in the end or do you think the Austrian Chancellor is spreading hysteria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102131	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102132	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very Well, that's what I was talking about both publicly and this morning. So, instead of the EU delegation, Austria held negotiations in New York for several months on behalf of all other EU members other than Hungary, Austria. So the attitudes Croatia expressed in multilateral format were communicated through Austrian diplomatic representatives. At no time did all these months act as if Austria had any other reserve in it. I talked to him, the content of our conversation may not be appropriate for me to say here in the Parliament but it is my very firm impression that it is a political decision, a decision primarily influenced by key coalition partners on the basis of which the Austrian government operates.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102133	My fellow Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-Sub-.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102134	Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. We see that you are regular at meetings of the European Council and that you are present at all meetings, therefore the issue that concerns your ministers in the Government. According to a recent survey by a Danish institute, the association has shown that in the past few years, Croatian government ministers have been very weakly present at EU Council meetings in different configurations and that they come to only about half of the Council meetings, unlike many other Member States where ministers are far more regular at these sessions. So my question is, do you consider it some routine meetings where ministers from other countries come but not Croatian ministers come but the State Secretary or other officials come, are we adequately represented in these Council configurations and meetings in the way that other countries are obviously doing that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102136	Thank you very much. Representative Podolnjak, I know about this report, it refers to a longer period of time, which includes a time when I was not prime minister. So ministers have... Yeah, yeah, but it starts early. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's right, that's almost a year and a half before my government started. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ministers in this Government have a mandate to absolutely go to all Council meetings, especially since they, many of them, will be in the role of the chairman in 14 months, so any failure means not monitoring the legislative process, misunderstanding, backgrounds of individual legislative proposals, attitudes of other countries, they have to go, they can be apologized for as well as at a cabinet meeting in some particularly important term that they are studying, otherwise they should go. Many of them are very regular, we've had an internal debate, they've all got a warrant, and they've got to be particularly justified if they don't. It is my government's position and it is not a routine meeting, it is their obligation because it is also a co-legislative body at EU level and they must be there, representing Croatia. It's their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102137	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102138	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, in the report itself, and you yourself stressed in your debate on the importance and that you also supported the EU's investment of high quality research and a single digital market. What confuses me a little is that I will ask for clarification from you, which is stated in the report itself that you have stated that the Republic of Croatia can accept an increase in the overall multiannual financial framework if appropriate funding for traditional policies but also new security challenges is allowed. So now I'm interested in what traditional policies mean, on the one hand, you're supporting the development of new digital technology and it's of course a digital market and you're still insisting on traditional policies here, so here's what I can do if I can get an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102139	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102140	Thank you very much. Representative Panenic, according to traditional policies, is primarily referring to agriculture and cohesion policy in that EU language. So we're a new Member State, we need cohesion to boost the development of all Croatian areas, which is inside, which is how to get at least close to what is the goal of 75% of what has the most developed and that's a priority for us. And it has to be a priority for the first 15 years of membership. We also want agriculture to respect our pre-accession obligations, i.e. accession contracts that go to 2022, they are important, they reduce our budget commitments, and they increase the support that goes to farmers in the European budget. This is the goal of going out of the United Kingdom, falling. That's what I said in the contract today. So there's a slight drop in allocation for both cohesion and agriculture. This can be afforded by someone who has been a user and cohesion and agricultural policy for 15, 30, 50 years. Someone who's a new member must insist on it at least... Multi-annual frameworks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102141	Thank you. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102142	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, at a meeting of the European Council on October 18th this year, you have imposed an issue of election results from BiH and I very much welcome, therefore, both actively and affirmatively, and speaking in fact about the revote of the political will of the Croats in BiH. The report itself says that both government presidents and Sanchez and Zivko Bulgaria, Oran of Hungary, High Representative Mogherini and Representative Macron participated in the meeting. I'm actually interested in one part of it, and you said in your report how much they actually understand the electoral system and the political system of BiH and what it is that the Republic of Croatia can work even more intensively and more hard to actually work to better understand, i.e. to participate in the process in a new process, to change electoral legislation in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102143	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102144	Thank you very much. Representative Babic, it is true, therefore, not all the details of the political system and architecture, particularly the electoral ones in other countries, are equally familiar. We must say that the Dayton-Paris structure of BiH, the BiH Constitution, is one of the annexes of the agreement, is quite complex for anyone who does not know it. And it takes effort and time and understanding and patience on the part of someone who listens enough to be interested and then understands and sees where in our court there are anomalies of what, as you know from '95. Well, by 2006, there weren't any scenarios like this, there weren't any scenarios like this. So it's practically a political will that took advantage of the legal void, and that was exactly the key message that we have to react to. We will do it, diplomacy, the ministry and there can be a lot of help from parliamentary diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102145	Thank you. Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102146	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I am interested in the position of Croatian foreign policy and what is the position of the Government to which we belong, whether we belong to a Europe of wire or to the one who wants to solve the problem by dialogue and who represents Croatia because we saw that the President said one thing, and the Government is saying another and what is my basic question, which is the position of the Republic of Croatia on the Marrakech Agreement and what is Croatia's policy on migration in the European Union. I am aware that what is happening now are games within the HDZ game but the state is not the place where you play internal games and the international reputation of Croatia is not a coin for internal games. And so I ask you very clearly also a very clear answer which is the position of the Republic of Croatia on the Marrakech Convention and which migration policy are you representing, whether the wire policy or the policy of the agreement?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102147	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102148	Thank you very much, Mrsic. First of all, as far as HDZ is concerned, HDZ is unique, there are no inside HDZ games, I don't know where you see them, the club, the government, the national council, the presidency of no one in terms of being subjective to the compact, the global compact on legal migration, and that would put a point on party positions. As far as the positions of state institutions are concerned, I repeat, the government has not changed its position at any time, there is no cacophony, there are no disputes, there are no dilemmas, the attitude is clear from two years ago, so until today it has not changed, and it will not change to be quite clear. I didn't even hear that the president had some kind of substantiative objection to the content of the document, that whoever goes there stays in every country to determine, we had the impression that she wants to go now we realize she won't, we'll send in the one we consider to be that he's fit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102149	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102150	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, in your debate, you mentioned the importance of fighting disinformation as you say on the Internet, you said that the conclusion in the discussions was that more information must be exchanged, that more needs to be discussed, but in fact we know that this conversation is not enough, science now understands better the phenomena of disinformation on the Internet, and I think it is possible to do much more concrete things to make the Croatian citizens of the Internet or the digital ecosystem safer, here, colleague Mrsic has asked you today about false news on an example of anti- refugee hysteria, so I'm wondering whether there were any conversations and whether you were thinking about how you could make the Internet a safer place for Croatian citizens, so it's important and I think that they are possible concrete steps.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102151	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102152	Thank you very much, Glavasevic, we have thought about it already there have been public debates, and I think that one part of internet communication remains unregulated, leaves complete space for the ugliest examples of hate speech, for irresponsibility, for anonymity without any consequences, we think that this is bad, here yesterday and the day before in Paris were, was also the head of my office, was also the Secretary of State of State of our digital, the Office of Pardon Center for Digital Society where he was gathered by President Macron and a set of states, but also a set of key actors in the digital world to better regulate him because this phenomenon is global, so we are talking about this. Here in Finland the other day, talking to Finnish Prime Minister Sipill, there's this very center they've built to prevent, you remember the word, what, the hybrid action on democracy, that you're laughing but that's like, look at it over the atlantics, so you'll see that it exists there and it exists with us. We're working on it. I think we need it together. to produce a quality legal solution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102153	Let's move on, Comrade Sagar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102154	Thank you, Prime Minister, so you said in your part of the exhibition that the first major integration step is the entry into Schengen space, the Republic of Croatia sees, and from history nothing has gotten lightly from the European Union, and this process itself has been said to last since 2016, and I have no doubt that Croatia will meet the technical conditions, but what concerns me is whether the European Union's real interest in protecting its borders, is this the interest of the Republic of Croatia because Schengen space has proved vulnerable in recent times related to the migrant crisis. In other words, my personal position is better invested in security systems than in wire, which is not produced in Croatia anyway. Do you think that by entering the Schengen area, when it will be your assessment, you will think that it will meet these expectations to protect and protect the Croatian space, and then the European Union's space or, for example, the European Union will provide a luxury for countries like Slovenia to block that entry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102155	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102156	You think they're politically blocking the entrance, that's what you last said, that I understand you well, that they're politically blocking the entrance, that's what you said. So here's how it is for our policy to protect the European Union's external borders so that we, in this direction, would be sure to East-Mediterranean and Southeast-European, would be great if the Turkish-Greek border were impermeable or that we would not have a problem. This is obviously not the case, and I also said in my speech only by recording the number of illegal migrations that end up at our borders showing a certain dynamic that is greater, not as dramatic as 2015 and 2016. We also believe that we must meet these criteria of legal gain, technical criteria, functionality and integration in information and meet the political criteria. Bulgaria and Romania think they have long failed to enter. It's a great political task, I hope it could coincide with time. Our chairmanship is our ambition. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102157	Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102158	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, you were very clear in answering my question about the Marrakech agreement in the morning, but what you said, now you have answered Mr. Mrsić's step away from what you told me, it is not a matter of form and who will go to the meeting, the question of the contents of the President's death certificate has been concluded that it is a substantial change in its policy and because the minister sitting next to you was forced to read part of the press speech of the president of the United Nations, because it is a matter of content, not form. But if you continue the policy that you said you would in the morning, then that's certainly good. My question to you now, Croatia has paid EUR 6 million to the Fund to fund Turkey in terms of immigration management, the Western Balkan route remains active, but significantly less than before, 95% is reportedly reduced by the inflow of migrants, whether the government knows how our money is spent in Turkey, and generally European money, taking into account the context of President Erdogan's governance, human rights and all that is happening and contrary to European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102159	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102160	Thank you very much, Representative Bukvić. There's no deviation from this morning, I think I said everything very precisely, I say if I hear something subtle, concrete, that we differ in terms of text content, then we'll talk about it. So far, I couldn't detect from these short media footprints, what you're saying is a little bit, let's say it's so adjusted, but let's let it go on the side. As far as Turkey is concerned, we will pay in the last quarter of 2019, a complete tranche that will reach about EUR 6 million, Croatia through mechanisms held by the European Commission in dialogue with Turkey, monitoring how these money is spent, you know that in the area of Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, in practically improvised settlements between 5 and 6 million people. That's very important to know. And that's the potential of some new crisis moment. And that is why we believe that the dialogue with Turkey despite all of these elements that you have said is crucial to Europe's security. It's condicio son qua non, and I insist on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102161	Thank you. Comrade Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102162	... Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[speaker subsequently turned on]] President of the Government, you have looked back in your speech between the other and the budget, I would like you to explain a little bit what it means that Croatia wants us to continue to have more funding for agriculture, as well as for cohesion policies, since we know that some countries have decided or wanted to in some way, or to advocate that in some way the criteria for obtaining funds are tightened, and given the way in which the country's strength and relations within the European Union, how much we will be able to count on allies or how many Croatia will have allies and who will advocate these criteria. It's just a little digression of what you're talking about just the same, it's a fake news story, about the flood of fake news in the media, I have to say that according to Oxford's research, it's important to know that 20% of the false news that appeared mostly on social networks was created by political parties themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102163	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102164	Thank you very much, counsel Glavak. When it comes to the budget, I repeat once again to us at this stage cohesion policy, agricultural policy, extremely important, but this topic is also important to us. The topic of security, the topic of migration, is therefore this big increase that went on over EUR 30 billion that I was just talking about, because we are one of the most interested countries, one of the countries literally on the first line, at least when it comes to this migrant route. And on the other hand, in agreement with other countries called Friends of Cohesion, these countries are 17, leading a concerted and agreed policy, the meeting in Bratislava will be the summit of the Central European Initiative here, because Croatia and this initiative holds the presidency this year in early December, where we will seek to get support for our position. They don't have the same optics of countries that have been in the Union since 2004, and we, there's a big difference. These 9 years of experience, dramatically alters access and pre-financing and co-financing of M plus 3 and M plus 2 respectively. We'll look for allies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102165	Thank you. Comrade Škorić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102166	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, here from your Report I support and commend all the efforts you are doing and in strengthening the international position of our country, because we see with these diplomatic and bilateral activities, that many things are connected, in particular, to strengthen mechanisms and cooperation on the mutual protection of the entire European area, so here we see about illegal migration and everything else, because here Croatia has a position of preservation and borders of Southeastern Europe, especially what is important, here, the activities that you take to protect the rights of interest of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, related to the preservation of constitutionality, the preservation of the Dayton Agreement, where we practically expect your activities to follow all the institutions in Croatia, both the Government and not the government, and all others, we often feel that this is not being monitored to a sufficient extent. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102167	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Skoric. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102168	Thank you very much, Mr. Škorić. I think it's very good that this appeal of yours extends its consensus on this subject. There will be a Croatian position and a Croatian position clearer, it will be heard better, it will be heard better, it will be respected more if it is consensual. We are talking about the entire political spectrum of institutions, and therefore I am truly convinced that the debate in the Croatian Parliament that should follow over a few weeks should be drawn up by this kind of consensus and the document that we can all gather about, and which will be a kind of guidance for the functioning of the institutions of the executive government and the Croatian diplomacy institution. So I believe that we have made good progress, we need to help the parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina to realize that the situation where 1 of the 3 constituent nations feels, I can even say, humiliated after this situation, is not good, it is not good, it does not contribute to functionality, it does not contribute to the harmonious functioning of institutions, and we have to advocate the reverse scenario.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102169	Thank you. Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102170	Dear Prime Minister, I have a question for you. In your presentation, you said that cohesion policy is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, in which way you, as Prime Minister and this Government, support the strengthening and development of cohesion policy, given that we make extremely poor use of EU funds, precisely those coming from cohesion policy, we are only 52% of the funds allocated unlike our neighbouring Hungary. So it has made a concrete contribution to the development of cohesion policy and strengthening it in the European Parliament. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia is saying that it means that cohesion policy is extremely important. However, there are no concrete developments that make it clear that cohesion policy as such needs to survive and get even more funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102171	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102172	Thank you very much, Mr. Chikotic. I'm not sure until the end I see how you think we're not doing it. So this morning, Minister Žalac and I and some other ministers mentioned how important the additional value of the funds received by the Republic of Croatia from the European budget is, from being very comfortable plus in terms of the funds paid and the funds withdrawn, how important it is for us to continue to make the next financial perspective very substantial for the Republic of Croatia when it comes to cohesion policy. How much in my government's mandate, therefore, of those small 9% agreed from October 2016 to 59, and it will certainly be 61, 62 or maybe 63% by the end of the year. So progress is obvious, engagement is obvious, meetings on this topic are every week, co-ordination by Minister Žalac, and, of course, I occasionally engage as Prime Minister to give further dynamics to the process. That's what we're working on. Hungary as And others have nine years more internships than we do, so they're a little faster, and they've been using the funds for 15 years... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102173	And the last one is a colleague of Ljubic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102174	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, for welcoming the issue of vote in BiH by Prime Minister Plenkovic in the European Council. In fact, elections in BiH were held without constitutional electoral law. The election of illegal members of the Croatian people in the seats of Croatian representatives in the presidency and in the home of the people is actually the result of the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Respect for the Constitution and the law and rule of law is a top European standard. The Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU and the Republic of Croatia is right, and BiH has the right to, therefore, point out the obligations to respect the Constitution and the Law and the rule of law. Croatia also borders non-EU countries, has an obligation to respect stability and security at borders , and therefore has the right to point to potential causes of instability. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102175	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102176	Thank you, Agent Ljubic. We have discussed this subject several times and I am pleased that you appreciate this effort that we have made at Council level and at the level of the European Council that we will continue to do. I think your expertise and colleagues, Raguza, as representatives of the Croats from BiH, can be very helpful here, you have done so in the extreme line with your efforts towards the BiH Constitutional Court which is one of the legal foundations in which the reform should be reformed. To amend the electoral law in BiH, in order to ensure the legitimate representation of the constituent peoples in the institutions of government, not only in the presidency, but also in other bodies, and we will co-ordinate activities to send this message continuously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102177	Thank you, we've come to an end with replicas, so let's go to debate now. The first is the club of representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague of Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102178	Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, MPs and MPs. From these reports that we received in the debate, I would single out three units that I think, here, yes, through this debate I would stress. The first refers to the multiannual financial framework, the second related to migration and is the third state, the political state primarily of the Republic of Croatia, the Croats in BiH, the electoral law. What I'd like to encourage is actually thinking about how, in fact, certain thinking through these reports can be different, too, and I can also encourage some of the higher, stronger goals that we should be communicating with. Here, I noticed the statement by the President of the European Parliament, Mr Tajani, who, speaking of the multiannual financial framework, pointed out that he did not think that the European Commission's proposal was ambitious enough. What it communicates, means it advocates a stronger, more quality budget that will have more resources to implement primarily, here is how it also highlighted and clarified the Prime Minister himself, the traditional policy and that it also has funds for new innovative policies. Here I noticed only in the report one illogicality, so I tried to determine what it was, is that an increase of 1.3% or is, well there was a second clarification, where it was at the height of 1/3 of the EU's gross national income 27, which I think is more accurate, so here, I would ask that it be corrected in the report itself, which is from the meetings on 28 and 29 June 2018. But looking at Mr. Tajani's position, then we also have the position of the president of the Croatian government who says the proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the 2021 period is... It's a good starting point. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we basically have these two points of view. One says we don't have a good starting point, we're looking for more, we're looking for a stronger policy, we have another position that's our national, it's a good framework that's, it's, and there's somewhere we can find ourselves. I primarily want, here, in this part and to stress, that, yes, we need to think about what is more important for us, especially, here, it has been pointed out many times today by the Prime Minister, that we are a new member, that cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy has great importance, but it will have a significant greater importance when we meet One is the criterion that the intensity of financial resources towards the Republic remains at least in this amount, and we want to increase, and the tendency is actually a certain reduction and the other is to show that we are successful in increasing the resources available to us. And here we come to a key problem, today we had this in our debate during the current morning, we're not pulling enough dynamics alone, and then unfortunately, what someone on the side is going to comment on, they're going to say, but why give you more funding, when you're not able to use it anyway. Be realistic, and in accordance with your own capabilities, you'll get the resources you can use, you won't have to exert yourself and achieve negative results, failed to implement the objectives outlined, because this year we've had 2.7 billion less use. Thus, at times we may need to consider that a commission is watching us just as we are. So the prices will all... The reality of the work seems to be that we will be satisfied with every draft budget. Because we're not successful enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not successful enough to withdraw funds that could be set up for us. And that's where one other question is now being asked, which we can open, which is here, the question of the common agricultural policy. We get more and more funds that substitute national funds, which go primarily for direct payments, and what happens to us. We, unfortunately, are freed from these funds, if we look at it now at 2 billion levels, so we've practically had a difference since 2010, when they set out 3.5 billion out of our own budget, we're now somewhere at 3.3, so we're still not with all these EU funds, we still haven't reached the amounts of direct payments that we had in 2010 when we financed everything from our own resources. And also, what's important to stress, still, is not our agricultural producers' maximum funds paid. So we're paying off all the funds that we get from the European Commission, that 100%, we're talking about direct payments, not this through rural development measures. Then it happens to us to save our resources wisely. So we have no obligation, we should, we have certain limits set, which we can reach, but in that part we calculate. And it doesn't pass it on to our farmers. So we have two models, neither have we met the maximum targets, and the maximum actually amounts, which we can nor have we substituted with the funds from the common agricultural policy, have we rerouted to further development of agriculture. But perhaps we are dealing with some things that are less important for our agricultural producer, so we often hear about the purchase of aircraft or other projects, which they think are currently not the weight of economic development and the intensity of achieving competitiveness as soon as possible and being competitive on the primary common European market, on what is reality, we need to be more competitive on the global market. ... Around the multi-annual financial framework itself highlighted what is certain now, we are coming before the year of elections for the European Parliament, there are 2 aspirations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a view of the current structure, the current European Commission, of the current European Parliament's call, and the president himself has come from this called out, who want to make a budget for the future budgetary period in this call. But I'll just say one thing, you take, something that actually someone, actually take your authority, that you bring a plan for someone who'll just get there. Imagine what it would be like, if here, we have and here someone brings a budget and then a new government is brought in, for example. This government, chooses, brings the budget, we have a new government, and now function within what they've given us. We are talking about a multi-annual, it has more weight, let's not think about I don't know, now that we have one-year-olds, so they are very easy to change, the multiannual financial framework, the current European Parliament's calling should bring, a framework in which a five-year term will act next. Whether or not our position that I have followed is the position of diameter, it should be that we want future Europarliamentaries, the future European Commission, to take away the right to form a framework within which they will act. What are we going to create? We'll actually create a basis that they can say, unfortunately, we could be more successful, we'd probably be better, but we're not responsible, because someone before us brought something that doesn't suit us. And now we have the same nicknames, called Milanovic's government that programmed this, for this budgetary period, that it is not adequate. It's here and this government is communicating, it's just, there's a lot of mistakes we're paying for right now. And of course everyone would be happier, so I'd like this government to bring in programs, implement that program, and then say, here's our plan, and our realisation behind it is behind it. So this is how we think about it, actually two models. Therefore, here we would like, perhaps if we had one restraint, to say what we could say and take responsibility for the next budgetary period and in the presidency of the Republic of Croatia, to actually be key to the adoption of a new multiannual financial framework. Of course there should be both organisational and human capacities that we can do... The easiest thing to say is to get these before us, and then we'll be dealing with perhaps some of the simplest topics because the issue of adopting a multi-annual financial framework is extremely difficult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is Romania, too, which is now coming to the presidency, is not too happy to put itself at this political risk, to bring perhaps, again here by looking at a common agricultural policy that will not fit us in perfection, but in the short term we will say that we will be leveled within this transitional period, but we are thinking after this budget period comes a new one in which there is no balancing, in which we will also be hostages of the decisions we are making today. So we're thinking about the time ahead. But here, so much for the financial framework. The other about migration. I noticed a statement concerning, in fact, Mr. Secretary-General of NATO Stoltenberg who said that he assessed NATO's presence in Iraq and Afghanistan as helping solve the migration crisis. I can't connect it. So the NATO that's been there all this time, at the end of the day, is actually the consequences of the presence of all these military forces there we feel through the migration crisis. I haven't noticed in any way that any of these refugees have been stopped by NATO's engagement. I would even say if it were a measure of NATO's success, then it should still be more abstention. Maybe they're implementing a policy that suits NATO. But that it's a migration policy that prevents this migration wave, I definitely don't think it is. And me, in general, working with NATO where... The United States is always asking the question, if it is already such good co-operation between the EU and NATO, in which the United States is, in practice, a key element of that alliance. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where do we belong? Why do Croatian citizens still have to ask for a visa today so they can go to the United States? Looks like we're not in the NATO that everybody else is in. Or we're not in the EU where all the other members are because something is definitely wrong. Or maybe they're not experiencing us, maybe through our debauchery and political acrobatics we've created just such an impression that we're not exactly some wanted child in that family where we should be equal. What I would still point out in the framework of migration policy, which is an emphasis, in fact, on the external borders. We have all the time, in fact, emphasising, I have followed some other statements by politicians who are at EU level, their prime ministers, member states, who are constantly speaking effective control of the external border. But put yourself in position, here's the prime minister, and you're saying that there are those of us living on that external border. I'm experiencing an external border, let's do it on the other side outside of us, is when it's the external border on our side, then it happens to you that when you go to one Ilock, a day maybe 10 times, that it will stop you 10 times the police and control you. Now imagine that you travel to the prime minister every day to the government and that 10 times, if you pass 10 times, stop, just take a look at you and check you out from day to day. And then we talk about development, I don't know, one Ilock, one Sreme, one east Republic, where controls on every road, every corner, and you live with it. And it's someone who's from Brussels, the external border is very far away to him, but I'm sorry that it becomes something from Zagreb that's very far away, and for those of us who live there, it makes living daily, and I think that the external border should be moved right into the area where the crises have arisen. We are to understand ourselves, we are certainly guilty, we are not instigating these events, nor have we exploited these areas, nor have we manipulated politically, nor have we manipulated economically, but we are definitely becoming like the EU's external border, a country that will suffer the consequences. I'm not afraid of any migrants that he's eager to stay in our country, unfortunately, we haven't created such an environment, nor that, I'm going to say openly, while we've had people from Romania, there's been a lot more damage than, the robbery that's been going on, but what's happening now. Al, I'm afraid that simply this way we won't ensure the security of the area that we really want to become an integral part of the EU, and unfortunately we were probably before the border guards, now we're becoming border guards again. And I'd like one more piece in this half minute, as long as I have time, of foreign policy related to BiH. I looked closely at the statements given ahead of the election, and I didn't notice that someone was actually calling the electoral system a problem. But at the moment BiH's candidate was no longer successful, it became a topic afterwards. Therefore, I only ask the Prime Minister to be the prime minister of all Croats in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102179	Thank you. The next club of representatives of that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102180	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. I, like every time so far in several groups of topics, will speak both of these reports and with formal, 2 formal and 2 informal councils and I will start with the economy, innovation and digitisation. One, I would like to say that, as far as economic movements in the EU are concerned, positive movements over the past years have been used to implement structural reforms, and in principle, according to how intense the members and the euro area and outside the euro area have implemented reforms, so they have actually recovered from the past financial and economic crisis equally or unequal. Unfortunately, it is increasingly heard, on several sides of the EU, that there is a slowdown in positive movements, the last we hear is that the German economy has also slowed significantly. In this one of the Council meetings, it came to my attention that despite this slowdown, the Council is calling for a legislative proposal to be adopted as soon as possible to check foreign direct investment, perhaps something that we should discuss in this HS. Two, I will say a few sentences on the multiannual financial framework that should be proposed by May and so before the European Parliament elections next year. I believe that we will all agree in this assembly that Cohesion policy is important, especially for the East of Europe, for those less developed for Croatia, I personally think, and I keep stressing in every way that, in fact, on some Cohesion Policy and money for the Cohesion Funds, it determines on the medium term and stability of the European Union itself, because this stability, the internal stability of the Union will ultimately be to a good degree and political and economic awareness of the standard of life of people. And that standard of people's lives throughout the Union actually determines the path of internal migration that again in the vicious circle determines the stability of the Union itself. I will also add that I think it would be a good direction in the next multi-annual framework across the Union that the European Funds are making as much use of the private sector as possible, I think that the money intended for the private sector is coming back multiple times than the one that goes into projects in the public sector. And under three, under innovation and digitisation, I would say that we are all aware that the progress of technologically away from legislation and legislative solutions throughout Western civilization, I only hope that the next round that will not be digitisation will be robotics, artificial intelligence the other day more curiosity has been announced that the robot Sofia is getting citizenship in Saudi Arabia but it is only a tiny little sign that will happen in the coming decades. I would like the European Union and the entire Western civilization to react in time with a legislative framework because of the things that we are witnessing today, in some ways, and which times are not good and good for consumers. However, one benefit is for consumers, and the other is for the benefit of all citizens. And a last sentence about digital platforms. Taxing digital platforms I think is a good way to go, I'm never good for new taxes, I'm not prone to pan-European taxes either, but I think at European Union level, a project to tax large digital platforms and corporations is a way for us smaller countries in the Union to actually come to revenue. Today, large digital corporations are in fact extremely easy to bypass tax systems of particularly smaller countries, so this one pan-European digital tax should also contribute to all smaller Member States. Under external relations, a few topics are the shortest because I'm going to talk under migration and security about Africa and the Middle East, I'd just say that actually the key to everything comes down to institutions. The institutions in the Middle East exist or not, institutions in different African countries are actually all about this, is the first policy then the economy without politics has no economy, without the economy there is no stopping these migrations. Macedonia and Greece's agreement I believe that we will all agree that this is a good step in, especially in stabilising in Southeast Europe, I believe Macedonia's fastest possible path towards NATO. On the subject of Brexit, we all know that the deadline is still a few months, the deadline for the deal, no one wants as the messy exit is said, but it all eventually came down to Ireland and Northern Ireland, so I would say that in some way the difference between hard and soft Brexit seems to be going to be the hard or soft border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. And the last point under external relations to us, the most important BiH, which has become a special topic of discussion at the initiative of the Prime Minister, I think it is excellent that European leaders finally become aware of the real situation in BiH, the election results, the positions of our Croats in BiH, but I also hope that they become aware of the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has and as a full member of the union towards BiH and towards the Croatian people as one of the three constructive peoples. I also think that the Union itself cannot escape responsibility for BiH, for the construction of institutions and precisely for the equality of three constructive peoples as many as there is a high representative for years ago, so no one can move away from responsibility. The European Council has tasked the Foreign Affairs Council with holding the debate and the post-election situation next week in BiH, I hope after the latest elections, which have made it impossible for the Croatian people to elect their representative in the BiH presidency. The topic of internal security and defence may be, in addition to migration, the one that grabs the most attention at the European Union level, there is more under the topic, and I will say as soon as possible that this cybersecurity and the fight against false news becomes extremely important. I've mentioned the digital world already, or if you want the virtual world of legislation to be late, late and today, it's still becoming quite unacceptable to me personally that you can't be in the normal life of Peter Pan or Cinderella but in a virtual world that for at least the next generation, the generation of my children, it's certainly becoming extremely important, there you can be Peter Pan, an ashtray you can run away from any responsibility, I think it's necessary to regulate the laws as soon as possible. I think it is important to praise the recent adoption of the new Regulation on the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism, so at Union level to establish reserve forces and equipment in the event of mass fires, floods or earthquakes, not God, of course, financed by the European Union's funds, but not by the Member States. All agree that permanent structured cooperation, i.e. The sand and the European Defence Fund should go hand in hand with activities in the NATO Alliance and that the joint work of the European Union and NATO alliance in general is complementary. In addition to these classically traditional defence issues, terrorism and the upcoming migration as a matter that everyone in the European Union is concerned about is in some way not only a threat to everyone but also something that, at the same time, as threatening as it seems, I think can be unifying to the European Union. I have tried on several occasions to talk to, and in Croatia but also outside, with exceptional Eurosceptics I have never heard any answer that would convince anyone that it is easier to deal with these challenges with security, terrorist, migration outside the EU, and also the most powerful and wealthy Member States. I have not received from anyone an answer that would not confirm it, and it is, in fact, an entirely united Europe can easily face all the security challenges that are ahead of us. And last theme, we'd say sugar on the spot, migration. A key agreement is a comprehensive European approach to 3 pillar migration. The first pillar is to protect the external borders. I'm going to mention a few figures and facts that I personally stuck to my eye. So, since 2015, that data has been released by Austrian Chancellor Kurz by 95% since 2015 has been reduced by migration pressure. So this will actually say that the greatest progress may have been made just in protecting the external borders. The following information is very interesting, which is that the Commission's assessment says there are one and a half million migrants in the EU territory to be returned as soon as possible to the countries from which they came. At the same time, however, the rate of return of illegal migrants decreased from 46% to 37%, which is not a small percentage. What is to greet, which is that the European Border and Coast Guard will increase three times in the next two years, therefore, both resources and people. I suppose in years ahead of us, and for decades this will continue to be a trend, such as the integration of a European border surveillance system that should be from local, regional, national and to European levels. Two, as I said, in this comprehensive approach to migration is the external dimension of migration policy, or stronger engagement of Member States in Africa, but I think not only in Africa. So, the Commission presented a proposal for a Alliance for Sustainable Investment and Jobs, they call it the Marshall Plan for Africa with the aim of creating 10 million new jobs in 5 years to come. Since in the next few decades the population of Africa will go from one billion to two and a half billion inhabitants, then we know that it will not take tens of millions, but actually hundreds of millions of jobs. And when we talk about Marshall's plan, I think what's more urgent, in fact, is Marshall's plan for the Middle East, especially for Syria and Iraq, because right now, especially in this part of the EU, is the greatest pressure from the war-torn areas of Syria and Iraq. Support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in meeting all conditions for final entry into the Schengen area. In all areas, we are in the final phase, therefore, and the application of the Schengen Information System and the introduction of new information systems to strengthen the supervision of the external borders of the Republic of Croatia and the EU is a presumption for the application of these new systems of access to the original information system, which, as far as I understand, will be very nearly possible. And thirdly, under migration, this approach to migration is the internal dimension of migration policy and the necessity of agreement on reforming the common asylum policy. This reform includes 7 legislative acts, remains the biggest problem within it so-called. The Dublin Regulation dealing with the mechanism for the distribution of migrants in EU Member States. The Austrian Presidency, which ends at the end of this year, has proposed something that I think is very important, which is to add to solidarity the concept of flexibility with the aim of reaching an agreement before the 2019 European elections. I would add that I hope that this flexibility, i.e. subflexibility, can be undertaken and that countries that lose the population, the young population, which go to rich strong EU members cannot simply be in the same position as these others. So it's simply not good if you want to see the stability of the long-term EU itself, and that's under the famous solidarity to undermine that the population, the young population of a country, is being replaced by our country for migrants. We understand, we support the need to give Turkey money to take care of refugees, the more the very good part of Turkey is really about refugees, therefore, not about economic migrants, but about people who have fled the war destroyed by Syria, Iraq, mostly. However, apart from sending money to Turkey, I think it is equally important, if not more important, to send money and technique to those destroyed areas, therefore, in Syria and Iraq. It's a lot harder, it's easier to send money to someone else, so then someone and something will solve our problem once. However, the bottom line is that if we want to stop migration, that money should be completed in those countries that need to be rebuilt after the war. I don't think the same principle is good for Africa. So Africa is something quite different than the Middle East. In addition to the number of inhabitants and demographic movements in the coming decades, the question of how much money is being sent to Africa and the African state, the African Union, is actually going to solve the real problem. I'm afraid at the end of the day it's going to take him to the field, that he's going to need to help people build institutions, build economies if you want. As he says, uh, that saying, "If you want to help someone, teach them how to fish, don't give them fish." And in this case, they will literally need people in Africa to learn how to fish. Otherwise, it's no wonder if people come for fish in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102181	Thank you very much. The next SDP representative club on behalf of which the respected representative Josko Klisovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102182	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, on behalf of the SDP club, I welcome both the Croatian prime minister and Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs. Mr. Prime Minister, you have devoted a good part of your presentation, especially the first and final part, to Southeast Europe and BiH. I think it is a good thing that even in the context of our SDP chairmanship, in the context of our Presidency, we take care of Southeast Europe. So, in the whole sequence of Thessaloniki Adjenda, the Zagreb Summit, now Sofia, here is the announced summit that would take place during the Croatian EU presidency. It is good because this region will give the most of its interests and interests if it joins the EU as soon as possible and we become part of a political, legal and economic space. This will also improve the region's prosperity, but I believe Croatia itself, which has intensive and economic and political relations with the region. It is good to prevent from the political words of support to action and try to transform that support into concrete activities of the countries of the region not by their path towards the European Union. I primarily mean it through technical and development assistance, but also through all other forms that one country that holds the Presidency of the European Union can do. And in the region there are still many challenges I will concentrate in this now part of the debate on BiH, and in the other part, especially on my individual debate and on the other issues you have raised. So your intervention on the European Council I think it was necessary, and I heard that the MPs also commended you. At the same time, I believe that your and the SDP Club believe that your intervention on the European Council was insufficient and delayed. Why? It is nice that you have succeeded in generating and supporting members of the European Council primarily Prime Minister or President Macron, for example. also the High Representatives for Foreign European Policy, for the Foreign Policy of Mogherini. Now, why she was late, because the intervention took place after the elections in BiH and could not have had a direct effect on the state of affairs in terms of amending electoral legislation. That the intervention came after the Constitutional Court's decision on the need to amend electoral legislation, and before the elections themselves could possibly generate enough political will in the European Council to give guidance to ministers that, in the Council of Ministers and then to the whole European Union, the institution of the European Union to take up a common position that the upcoming elections that have not been made in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of its own State would be treated. From the perspective of the European Union, this is about the rule of law. The European Union rests on the rule of law and the European Union insists on each candidate for membership in the rule of law. We know that BiH is not a candidate for membership but we also know that BiH wants to join the European Union. Such a public position of the European Union on electoral legislation in BiH could help bring together enough political will within BiH itself and access to amending the legislation before the elections came out. Why was your reaction insufficient? It is precisely because it did not win the result which it was complaining of, which is an amendment to the electoral legislation that would ensure practical, so in reality equality and the Croatian people with the other two peoples in BiH. It's nice that now the Council of Ministers, or foreign ministers, have been tasked with making so-called. full app and it is very good only it would be much better if the whole political process had taken place before the BiH elections were held. Your intervention was not by my long conviction contrary to the principle of non-interference in the domestic affairs of the neighbouring country. Therefore, from the perspective of Croatia as members of the European Union and the European Union itself, as I have said every country that wishes to join the European Union must respect the rule of law and of course the European Union must worry about when it comes to a potential candidate. Therefore, any raise of questions concerning the rule of law should not be considered as interference in internal relations but rather a legitimate debate within the European Union on a country which is on its way to the European Union itself. So in my opinion, this is not about meddling in BiH's internal affairs, and given that BiH is on the agenda of the European institutions and the Council of Ministers, so that the European and Commission are not able to say that these issues are some interference in neighbouring countries' internal affairs. So I don't like to say hello to your activity like that. I'm just saying, at the SDP Representatives Club, we think she was too late and insufficient. What did we get at that time before the election? We have received a hyperactive president of the state who visits Moscow and Ankara is trying to lobby to amend legislation and a passive government that does not do the same, where, with our first partners, which are members of the European Union or NATO members. Well, I guess we must first convince our own allies of the correctness of our position with them to make that position a common position and as a bloc to act together towards BiH. Such a development would certainly bring much more benefits to the Croats in BiH than what we have now. The president's departures, which we do not know whether they were in agreement with the government at all or whether it was another unconformed foreign policy action, brought in fact to the Croats in BiH as well as the Republic of Croatia only harmful consequences in Moscow and Ankara, the president received a refusal, which further complicated Croatia's relations with BiH, which has irritated the Bosniak part of the political scene that was publicly and manifested about it and, of course, wanted to show the Croats in the Federation who is the boss and will show in every way possible, from irritated by such a policy of the Republic. I therefore think it was much more opportunistic that the government took action, and there is activity that has implemented this activity within the European Union and NATO that it has tried to establish a common position of the European Union in line with our interests and then act together in space and in relations with, not in space, but in relations with BiH. A similar mechanism, the technology of this work was held by the SDP government of Zoran Milanovic, who, if you remember, tried to reasonally convince European partners of the correctness of our position, the position was accepted in Berlin and London and by the strength of the two countries together with Croatia, we managed to sort of interpret it as a common European position and from that position to act very differently in relations with BiH, rather than with one side. So it's about technology, this, the work we think is necessary at the SDP club. As for the argument spread to the Croatian public that the elections were held in accordance with the Constitution, but not with the spirit of the Dayton Agreement or the Constitution of BiH, which is Annex 4. The position of MPs, the SDP's club is next, the constitution makes it clear that, especially for the election of members of the presidency, we have a person who is Croat, Bosniak and Serb. It also says that Croatia and Bosniaks are elected in the Federation area by all BiH citizens. So, in this context, Mr Komsic was elected in accordance with the Constitution. The spirit of the Dayton Agreement, as you said, was not in line with the spirit of his choice, depends on how we interpret things. According to the information we had was that the Croatian delegation who agreed to this text of the Constitution which was obviously not accurate enough was interpreted in Dayton that, of course, Croatians, Croats in the BiH presidency would choose Croats and Bosniaks would choose Bosniaks. Croatians also gave the green light to such a text, and perhaps they should have sought an interpretative statement that would make such an interpretation formal, as we had, for example for the Istanbul Convention. It is certain that Bosniaks were interpreted differently, in a way that, yes, it writes nicely in the Constitution that all citizens of the Federation choose both Croats and Bosniaks in the BiH presidency. So one different interpretation. In practice, this particular interpretation was rooted. Therefore, without amending the electoral law, there will be no change to what is called, which is that Croats elect representatives to the BiH presidency who is a Croat. So the current formulation in the Constitution is actually a compromise formulation between civil and national understanding of electoral legislation. It's confusing, and that's why it leads to the situation we're currently in. To change it, we must amend the electoral rules or clarify the Constitution, it is not on the Republic of Croatia, it is on BiH. But those things, I think they have to be clear for the public's sake. And in this context, the Republic of Croatia cannot ignore Mr Komsic as a member of the BiH presidency because he is simply directed to work with the official institutions of the country, or with people representing the state and elected in accordance with its constitution. It is also said that Mr Komsic was elected to the vote of Bosniaks. I believe in a very simple analysis that it is possible to determine exactly that. However, it is also neglected that there are people living in BiH who may not want to vote exclusively for national parties who experience politics differently and who want to vote for parties that have some supranational programme. Komsic is interpreted as part of a Bosniak project to take over BiH's domination. He may be, but he may not be. Both Croats and Bosniaks and Serbs who advocate a different discourse in BiH may have voted for it as well. When you look at how many votes he received, then you realize he got about 70,000 votes more than HDZ candidate Covic. When you see how much Becirevic received, SDP's candidate compared to Šefif Djeferovic, then you see that it is 3% difference, some 20,000 votes difference and you wonder if it is possible that Bosniaks could have easily played with their votes, transferred them to Komsic and not have a safe victory for their candidate SDA. Komsic built his campaign precisely on this as the protector of BiH as a whole state, as the opposite of the separatism experienced through Dodiga and as the opposite of the autonomy experienced through Covic. As an attempt to protect BiH from the influence of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. A part of BiH would have obviously accepted the rhetoric, and it turned it into a new mandate that is in line with the constitution. And those things just can't be so easily denied or challenged. The interests of the Croatian people to elect representatives to represent BiH, in order to do so, must be amended by electoral rules or by the Constitution. Without it, there will be no thing we call upon. How do you do that? The Croats themselves in BiH cannot do so only with other citizens and peoples in BiH. And that is the path to go, and the Republic of Croatia needs to insist on EU member states respecting the rule of law in BiH, so if the Constitutional Court has found that the electoral rules are not in line with the Constitution, that they should be changed, then they should be changed. And this is an opportunity to ensure that Croats have full equality in choosing their people's representatives. The other way is by me, or SDP's club, we don't see which one can go. And there is the role of the Republic of Croatia to therefore, in line with, first of all, participate in the formation of the position of the international community, first of all the EU, as well as the partners in NATO, and through a common position, we work together towards BiH to actually meet what is already written, and that is the equality of the 3 constituent peoples. Any unilateral activity and action in BiH will not end well, nor neglecting relations with other constituent peoples will also benefit the Croats in BiH will benefit from the only relaxation of the situation, the establishment of constructive relations so that their legitimate demands are truly discussed and that they will receive international support and support for those who are authorized to amend the laws and the Constitution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102183	Thank you. Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that Living Wall and Power, time will be shared by respected representatives Branimir Bunjac and Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102184	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear Prime Minister and Minister. Today there are 2 Reports ahead of us, which in little part represent panaegirics about the work of Andrej Plenkovic in Brussels, and for every point discussed there we can read what Mr Plenkovic said, these are very wise thoughts and are expected to be published one day as an anthology of the character and works of the former Prime Minister, to be a promotion in the NSK, there will be Borgs in the audience, and the reviewers of the book Ante Ramljak and Martina Dalic. However, regardless, we really need to ask ourselves what European and NATO integration is offering. It seems that not much good, for for example, by staying in the European Union, we are losing many aspects of our own independence. For example, about 70% of Croatian laws are passed in Brussels, where Croatia has modest 11 MPs of 751, and 1.46%, respectively. This is equivalent to the 2 MPs in HS, so we can figure out for ourselves what is the impact of Croatia in the European Central. From these reports that are now ahead of us, we can see that the preparation and complete confiscation of Croatian monetary independence is being seen, as the government, such as the modern foggoose, rushes into the non-critical takeover of the EUR, which can bring us nothing useful but tax hikes, higher prices and huge costs of so-called conversion and transition, adjustments that go up to around EUR 1 billion. The EUR is not only evil, because these reports show that the preparation and introduction of the banking union, the creation of a European Monetary Fund, as if one IMF is not enough for us already, not to say excessive, and that it will even be appointed European Finance Minister, which means that the Croatian wallet after Vienna, Budapest and Belgrade will finally end up in Brussels, but this time in full. Our former masters have left us with at least a little independence, but these new, well, not even crumbs from the table. With all these announcements, we now see that new costs are constantly coming in, that we are giving €3 billion 650 million for membership fees to the European Union, that we have increased it by 500 million for Brexit, that in 2019, we are giving €142 million more in the budget for European bureaucracy, that in 2020 we will give €241 million for the Presidency of the European Union, we are giving very much, but in return, as we receive funding from European funds which are unfortunately lower than our contributions. Because we see from year to year that some projections are being made in the budget based on European funds, and then at the end of the year, which is right now, doing a budget rebalancing where these funds are found not to be withdrawn. The only difference is that the amount missing from year to year is increasing, so this year 2,700 million kunas are missing, or 2 billion 700 million, compared to last year's, billion and 900 million. This is because European tenders are extremely complicated and bureaucratic, intended for the implementation of European and not Croatian interests, and refuse to report even those who have the knowledge to apply for them. Whether we need greater evidence of the harmfulness of European funds when not even the Ministry of European Funds has succeeded in withdrawing the planned funds. So even the Ministry, which deals exclusively with this, is unable to take funds from European funds, so how can the rest of the ministries take them, how can they be taken by Croatian entrepreneurs, citizens? And it is very important to say that what the government is saying, that the funds from the European funds have been withdrawn, they have not been withdrawn, they have been agreed, and from the means agreed to pay or not paid, it is a very long way to go. In addition to the huge money we give to the European Union, we have to give every year hundreds of thousands of hours of work, in order for these European funds to be written, to be implemented, in order to ultimately justify themselves. In accordance with the error and harmfulness of European funds, the Living Wall remains with its previous opinion, and it is necessary to stop paying any membership fee to the European Union, and in return, the European Union should leave its EU funds to itself. Since they claim to give us more than they're receiving, I don't think they should, therefore, object. We will spend our 4 billion dollars on the European Union, on what is important to us, for example, for tax discharge, without excessive procedures, and that will be much more useful to us in any case, than this robbery of the Croatian budget, which is increasing year by year and leading to economic and any other crisis in the Republic. Here, I will now give time to my colleague Pernar, so the rest in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102185	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Pernar will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102186	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in the report from the European Commission, it seems that, according to the papers we received, they appear to be... Jens Stoltenberg, who said NATO's presence in Iraq and Afghanistan is helping resolve the migrant crisis. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here I am asking, how NATO's arrival in Afghanistan, or its presence there, helped solve the migrant crisis. The more we know the actual figures, the more we will list 2001 migrants or refugees, whatever they call them from Afghanistan for Germany was only 5,000, and 2016, so last year there were as many as 150,000, which will say that the number of refugees from Afghanistan, thanks to NATO's invasion, has increased 25 times thanks to NATO's presence. Secondly, we all know that by attacking Iraq, America created there, in fact a basis for conflict and a prerequisite for the creation of what the media will later call ISIL, ISIS or whatever it is, and in fact the entire region has been affected by a wave of terrorism, so there has been a civil war in Syria that was by its nature everything but civil. I'll explain why. Well, because in Syria, fighters from 80,90 countries in the world fought, who shared everyone in the plan to bring down President Al Assad, who had the full support of America, I mean the plan of destruction, not the president, President Assad had no support from America. Also involved in the destruction of the legitimate Syrian government was Israel, which repeatedly beat in the position of the Syrian army. And for that, of course, like the Americans with the ballistics i.e. that ballistic missiles, etc. And when all of this is considered, we can see that NATO has not helped solve the migrant crisis, neither in Iraq nor in Syria nor in Afghanistan, but has already led to its burst. There's one more thing that's interesting. Jens Stoltenberg does not mention in his report that NATO's or his presence helped resolve the migrant crisis, for example in Libya, because we know that the migrant crisis in Libya began only the moment NATO intervened, brought down Muarem Gaddafi and actually pushed the country into a civil war that lasts until today. It is unfortunate that Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO killing pact that sows death around the world, does not see its mistakes and has no sense of self-criticism when we know that they are precisely responsible for the current situation in Afghanistan, both in Iraq and in Syria and Libya. Also, Prime Minister Plenkovic said that the Republic of Croatia successfully protects its border from illegal migration. The thesis is incorrect because it is witnessed by thousands of illegal crossings of the Republic of Croatia that took place according to the BiH authorities' statements. So BiH authorities have crossed our border illegally between 15 and 17,000 migrants this year alone. If the illegal crossing of more than 10,000 people is considered by our prime minister to be a successful defense of the border, then we must ask ourselves what a failed defense of the border is. And these thesis where the Croatian border is said to be secure, is sure of what? The Croatian border is secure for illegal crossings, but is unfortunately not sure in the sense that it prevents illegal migration, it is not sure how our country's laws are respected. However, what is most hypocritical of all is that one association, the Centre for Peace Studies, which insists on calling the Croatian police, in fact the Croatian state for inhumane treatment of migrants, is co-financed by the government itself, or the state itself. So I ask why the state finances those organizations that actually blacken it in every way possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102187	The next club of MPs is that of Glas and HSU in the name of which they will speak the respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin with the fact that we consider the positive reports submitted to Parliament on the meetings of the European Council, as well as on the summits and other meetings at the top of EU Member States. It is certainly good to discuss this in the Assembly, and of course also the topics that on these councils are part of the agenda and what the Republic of Croatia is also involved in and as far as direct concern is concerned. It is obvious that one of the key topics is also at these meetings, and also for, I would say, not only Europe, but the Republic of Croatia, given its geographical location, is certainly the topic of migration. We often, when we talk about migration, mix 3 things, it happens quite often here today. These are legal migrations, illegal migration and refugees. So, legal migration is something that is covered here by the Marrakech Social Agreement or the Marrakech Agreement, and what the European Union is trying to do by opening this topic, which is, in fact, the Marrakek Agreement is to open a debate at European level on how to reach a consensus that does not exist at the moment and we need to reach a consensus on regulation of legal migration. It should be recalled that legal migration is also a migration in which a large number of Croatian citizens who are currently in Ireland or are in Germany or elsewhere in European countries are involved, these are legal migrants. And the recognition of the fact that by reaching consensus at European level which at the moment does not exist about how regulating legal migration would certainly help in the effectiveness of fighting illegal migration, and not to the issues of refugees, because refugees and the topic of refugees is the subject of a debate on a common asylum policy which, at the moment when the European is concerned, unfortunately on a very long stick, therefore there is no such thing as the Dublin Agreement, the Dublin Agreement has, in some ways, been run over by him for a time when there were no such mass waves or large waves of refugees, so for a regular situation. The situation in which we were faced in 2015 and then in part and 2016 is quite different from the one regulated by the Dublin Agreement and therefore requires a new European policy, but I say this is a special topic which is not a consensus being seen in Europe at the moment. Consensus is seen on the subject of legal migration and I think that Croatia is directly interested in taking part in this and at this point actually contributes to some kind of structured public debate at the level of Europe, anyone who, of course, looks at this proposal of the Marrakesh Agreement which has been formalised at the level of the Member States of the European Union for a long time, this UN and then, in particular, the European Union is something that can possibly lead to some common policies in the future, at this point it is actually a matter of putting on the agenda of legal migration where we are interested not only as a country where legal migrants can possibly come from, but rather as a country from which legal migrants go to others, or in the first place, members of the European Union, and that we should be aware and take up our position in this debate, and that, among other things, we are short for example, that we represent the position that legal migrants of people, in other words, that they have certain human rights, and that we need to be able to be able to be able to be able to comply with any possible and to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to deal with any possible and to be able to deal. So in this respect, I think Croatia has taken one rational position. As regards asylum policy and what these reports call internal migration, it is a much more complicated topic, Croatia has accepted in this context I would say 10 people not some significant numbers, but one reason that caused the crisis in 2015 with a major refugee wave was precisely misunderstanding at European Union level in Turkey and relations between the European Union and Turkey. Migrants, or refugees, who came to Croatia in 2015, all of whom, regardless of their countries of origin, came to Turkey. Turkey had warned European institutions a few years earlier that there was this problem, so first half a million, then two million, and then over two million refugees in Turkey, the European institution did not respond to this by financial assistance, and at one point they are there, it was actually released to cross the sea to Greece and thus opened so on. The Balkan route. Based on this experience, it is obvious that the geography is clear that cooperation between the European Union and Turkey is necessary regardless of all the other difficulties we have here in the cooperation and remarks we have on Turkey. The fact is that Turkey is carrying the burden 2 or already over 2 million refugees on its territory and that it is something that the European Union must engage for obvious reasons and must co-operate on the topic with Turkey. As in this respect, what we heard about the Africa fund is positive even though this fund for Africa is on a very, very long stick and until it comes to a situation that first in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa is peace and then possibly what kind of conditions for life, however, further climate change worsens the situation and the topic of migration and migrants will be safe with us for our lives. So in our lives we're going to need this topic and we're going to have to deal with it because it's obvious that it's not going to end. So, the fund for Africa is certainly something that is positive although of course it has results in a possibly quite distant future. In the prime minister's report, there is nothing concrete about the Croatian stance that the French President Macron expressed the other day, which refers to the joint defence, European defence forces, I think it is something in view of all the changes that we are witnessing, something that is in the European and Croatian interests and that it is something that Croatia should absolutely involve and support that initiative in the debate. And the final issue of the Croatian prime minister's intervention regarding the situation in BiH and the BiH elections. Imagine that Serbia, Slovenia or Hungary in their parliament are making a declaration requiring changes or obliging their officials to demand changes to the Croatian Constitution and the Croatian Election Law, all here who would stand on their backs and consider it inadmissible. Croatia has an obligation to take care of Croatia and the Croatian government and Croatian institutions have obligations to take care of Croatia, its reputation and its international position. They also have an obligation to take care of Croats outside Croatia, both in BiH and in Montenegro, in both Serbia and Hungary, both in Italy and Slovenia, so where they were. This direct intervention and interference in the results of the BiH elections and in BiH regulation will not only cause reverse effects, not only will Croats in BiH put in an even more complicated position than they are today, but directly harming the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. So, what is possible, of course, are to have an opinion, to have a position, but directly in this way to base Croatian foreign policy, in this way to interfere in the results of the BiH elections, if something obvious from the result of the BiH elections is that 2/3 of the Croats in BiH did not want to vote for Covic. And it is very likely that this is why Komsic was elected, but at the moment that Komsic was elected as a member of the presidency, as we know members of the presidency are elected one Croat, one Serb and one Bosniak, when he was elected member of the presidency, then it is in the interest of both the Republic of Croatia and all Croats in BiH to do the job as well as to promote the interests of the Croats in BiH. And what is the fundamental interest of Croats in BiH, so the fundamental interest of Croats in BiH is that BiH succeeds on its path to membership in the European Union. It's the only thing giving the country a chance to get out of this, I don't know what to call it, the chaotic state in which it is at the moment, and therefore in Croatia it would not be in any way to assess the internal changes in BiH, but to try to help on the way to qualify for membership and the equality of all citizens in BiH, to solve the issue of equality not only of the constituent peoples but also of other citizens, it is otherwise Sejdic-Finci, if you spent Sejdic-Finci no longer having one Croat and one Bosniak and one Serb but you have anyone who has the right to run for BiH citizen. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102189	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102190	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We used to be very enthusiastic, it hasn't been many years with regard to the expectations of our prime minister's report, not just this one, but the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia's sessions. Today I see we're not. Of course, things have changed with us and things have changed in the EU but from that enthusiasm that may have been uncritical in some parts of it. It would be dangerous if we entered into indifference or apathy that would also suffer from the same disease as we suffered at a time when we were too enthusiastic. Politics is looking for an engagement that has been considered. Indeed, all those who are members of the EU and all who live on the European continent, regardless of whether they are members of the EU, are currently in need of engagement. An engagement that will preserve the stability of the Union and stop further conflicts on European soil and stop further tensions at European borders because they threaten peace in Europe. Europe recently won the Nobel Peace Prize. Whoever decided that, as if he'd given us some kind or wanted us, or he'd either given us a name to act on, which means we have to, that we have to keep peace in Europe. Now let me say a few words that should justify it, in turn as the prime minister spoke in his presentation and how the report we received spoke in writing. As for the multi-annual financial framework and its increase by 1.25%, it would be better if the matter were as ambitious as the President of the European Parliament said it, but for some countries, this increase, including us, would be great. And that's why, unfortunately, we can't be enthusiastic or optimistic and we're not in any particular position to say no. Why aren't we enthusiastic and why aren't we in a good position? We are not because we entered unprepared between 2014 and 2020. Everything, all of our energy seems to have been spent in the period of accession and when the moment has come to take advantage of what the EU is offering we have remained unprepared or exhausted or uninterested. More like this first, not prepared enough. I'll give an example, we'll discuss the budget next week. The planned European funds that belong to us were a reason to say that we will have a discharge in our budget because we will have the money that we will get from European funds. What's going on? It happens that we actually have a burden because that money is planned but it doesn't come true and it doesn't back down and then we spend our own resources and we pay for our share in the multi-annual financial framework, but also for what we didn't do at home and we should have done with European money and we pay it with our own money. As we spend this European money here, I will not speak out of a sense of national responsibility which in this case is not exactly the best, moral, best moral feature, but this feeling of national responsibility requires because in some areas we do not use that money so that it is long-term good for the branches for which it is used. I hope that our preparation for the multiannual financial framework in the coming years will be significantly, significantly better than it has been so far. As for the security I have started and the defence, on the one hand, Europe is divided into its territory and, on the other hand, there are tensions on almost all sides of the EU's borders. The process, a halted enlargement process, has contributed, at the same time, to the non-preparation of the Union itself to protect its own borders, has also contributed to this. Efforts to create and strengthen assumptions in this respect to strengthen surely common, security and defence policies are good but is not unconflict towards European and our overall traditional, decades-old partners. This is seen not only in defence issues, but also in trade procedures and misunderstandings that exist between Europe and key actors of world policy and global economies. As far as migration is concerned, the reduction in numbers, the high reduction in the number of illegal migrations, therefore the reduction in number by 95%, is a significant achievement. And indicators in a certain sense and sobering when the Wednesday hunger is for cheap labour and fast labour that some EU member states have had. And at the same time, the sign of sobering that the production of crisis hotspots of war and economic hotspots that stimulate as someone here has been saying migration is something that encourages it. What we as a country should certainly be and avoid is two things. The first is not to be the first, one of the next first countries of entry. Because the experience of Italy, the experience of Greece, the previous experience of Spain that had politically dealt well with it, for Italy, we are not sure how to deal with it, but o it has its own plight, so we will not add our salt or our comments to it. What's important is to avoid it for sure. The other thing to avoid is the production of hatred, prejudice, stereotypes and nationalism not about migrants and migration. We are the land of entry but we are not the land of rest. And anyone who passes through to Croatia turns into a political asset like this case has been transferred to this benign Marrakesh declaration is something that is not smart and is not good because of our country itself. Our experience of war and our war heritage that has kept the elements of animosity with new animosities can greatly harm our country, its political culture and its ability to face its serious problems. We're not a country that doesn't need migrants. Unfortunately, we're a country that needs migrants. Since the '90s, we have lost more than 700 thousand of our citizens in different forms of Serbs who have had to go through young people who have left in the last 10 years. And we need to realise that if we want to do anything about our economy that sooner or later we will have to reach out to people who haven't found a chance to work seriously but I agree with a fellow Milosevic who rightly raised the issue of stopping labour draining trends from new EU members and achieving mechanisms that will keep people in, new members like Croatia. This is important for the future not only of Croatia but also of the future of the EU. We're talking now because it's important to us. And the state should commit itself, not to naked rhetoric, naked sovereignty or nationalism, but to serious economic development measures and serious struggle within the EU for Croatia's interests when it is on Wednesdays its policy. It won't be solved by the demographic measures we have here, give birth to more children. Well, somebody go ahead and tell them if they're gonna do it. And what money someone will pay for it under the present circumstances. The third thing, the fourth thing I'd like to mention is the question of destroying multilateralism and danger... Nationalism, which is probably more dangerous for the European continent and for Europe than other continents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Marrakech Declaration is a good example. We're not talking about trade agreements. I'll leave it to my colleagues who know more about it and can talk more about it. But multilateral regulation of legal migration to become a bauk by means of which nationalism will spread within Europe as it tries to spread to us is a direct work against the interests of small countries and small peoples such as our own and direct interest, direct work against the stability of continents and countries such as the EU. One who does not see the danger of the international multilateral order being replaced by nationalist order, political order, is blind. One who doesn't see how dangerous this can be for our country is equally blind. As far as enlargement is concerned, yes, I'd like to say one more thing. It is interesting how the European Parliament's declaration of October 25th, October 25th, against the rise of neo-fascism in Europe, passed with us liso. It's as if we have nothing to say about it either in ourselves or in the EU. As if the words made by President Macron about the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I should not sound warning and sobering for many countries and especially for countries in the southeast of Europe, including ours. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to skip the enlargement issue, although I think it's extremely important, although I think that in our foreign policy it should be even more important, let no one mind me because I highly respect everything the Minister does and what the Government does, but it should be even more important in that regard. BiH as well as Serbia, as well as Montenegro, when we talk about the South are important for us neighbouring countries because of peace, for stability and for the rights that exist in those countries for parts, in this case the Croatian people in BiH, Serbia, Montenegro. As for the solution for BiH, there is no easy solution and complex tools need to be hired. Tools that will not expose the Republic of Croatia and will not deepen any misunderstandings between the Croatian peoples in BiH and the other two peoples or at least one of the two peoples. And that it is quite clear that it is necessary to ensure more clearly the equality of the Croatian people in the electoral procedure, it is true. That it is necessary to make the Constitutional Court's ruling more effective in the Finland case and that is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102191	Thank you, dear Mr. Pupovac. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102192	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I'd like to continue my debate on several topics. So let's continue around Southeast Europe, one issue that has started to cause, uh, different views and positions that are being raised in public. And that is a question that can also be repercussed to the stability of Southeast Europe, which is a question of changing borders. Recently, we were faced with a proposal to change the borders between Serbia and Kosovo by agreement. Our government has taken a cautious approach, which given the experience we have in Southeast Europe with such things and needs to be taken, as well as a series of European states, and has actually advocated that Pandora's box is not being opened. Such a thing really seems to be very excessive and very political and externally wise at firsthand. However, given that such a discourse was dominant during the cold war and was codified, of course, in the Helsinki Declaration and in the 75th year of the OSCE, the unchangeability of borders was a principle. However, Germany was united after that, 24 countries formed in Europe and proved not to be. Therefore, the question arises whether it is necessary to safeguard the borders at all times and in any case, or whether there is a way that they can be changed. International law says one way to change is with the agreement of states that have a limit. So if there was a full agreement between the two states, around their border line, that it would move here or there, then it would be the only way that such a change of borders could possibly be recognised, peacefully through the full agreement of the interested countries on whose border it is working. The absence of any violence, therefore, or any imposition of a solution. So that's one element that I think should be considered, regardless of what is a very sensitive question and what the political connotations that follow after such things can be unpredictable. Caution is certainly welcome, but on the other hand, international law still allows for the agreement of interested countries on their own border, and that right no one should actually challenge them in the International Community. So I'm talking about the full agreement of the interested states on changing their own borders. And with all the Declarations, there and Helsinki have not yet cemented to the end of the border between European countries. Another thing I'd like to hear from the government is about Macedonia. Is there a hodogram of activities within the EU, is it being negotiated at the Foreign Affairs Council, both after the referendum, how does the EU plan to perform with Macedonia after ratification of the name change? Is there a hodogram of activity, thereby lineing some steps towards Macedonia's desire to start accession negotiations with the EU and how the Croatian government will be placed in these talks, whether and in a way to support Macedonia's desire to speed up, therefore, its accession to the EU. The next topic is climate change. We have a very soft formulation in the conclusions of the European Council, and we need to be aware that climate change is very closely related to migration. So according to the World Bank and Studio, which came out in March this year, 143 million people were estimated to be migrants by 2050, exclusively for the reasons of climate change. So these people will have to leave or want to leave their areas of living because they will no longer be suitable for life. They will come from Africa, from Asia, from many parts of the world. We can expect that tens of millions of such climate migrants, so we're not talking about migrants running from war and political crises, from dictators, in the desire to save their lives, but from migrants going, changing their residence for climate change. Europe is unable to manage migrant processes that are currently one and a half million people in Europe. How, as the EU, will we be able to deal with dozens of millions of migrants coming? It is obvious, therefore, that one deeper revision of the migrant policy and additional action in its external dimension is needed, therefore, to do everything to prevent climate change that will lead to this trend of migration and therefore it is not clear how it is so easy to go over this topic in the EU or in the conclusions of the European Council. I would also suggest that our government include this topic, therefore climate change and in terms of migration, as one of the priorities of Croatia's EU presidency. We must all be aware that most migrants will come to Europe as climate migrants and not as persons who escape from war conflicts. In the context of migration, one more thing is important, I would like to point out, the EU is trying to find a hotspot beyond the EU's borders to concentrate, where migrants would concentrate, we are not enough in my opinion to say that Croatia cannot and will not be hotspot equally important to suggest the EU and to advocate in EU institutions not to be BiH either. The Croatian border with BiH and now shows itself ugly and difficult to protect for objective reasons, but that is not enough reason, the change in the composition of BiH's population on a larger scale can become a very important internal political fact in BiH that can have a crucial impact on the situation of Croats in BiH, the position of Serbs and on the state itself as such. Therefore, if a BiH proposal for a hotspot comes to mind, then it must be aware of the political dimension of such a decision, and I do not think Croatia should support such a decision. Of course, it is difficult to find a country where you will make a hotspot but it can do the same to Africa, as it can be the eastern, eastern borders of the EU and these Southeast. However, in this context, Croatia's policy should be very clear and our representatives should come forward very, very precisely in European institutions. The next topic that many people are talking about in the EU, which Croatia has not yet had an attitude, because it has just begun to talk, but this discussion should certainly begin, is the issue of the European military. We heard President Macron, he came out with such a proposal on behalf of France, we heard Chancellor Merkel who supported it, we heard some other European statesmen like Orban or Zeman who also for some of their own reasons support the European army. It is not clear how all this will develop together, as fundamentally as we heard the reasons for the establishment of the Croatian army to ensure full security of the EU by the European Armed Forces in order to finally get away with it, were emancipated as Macron from the US security umbrella says, or in order to be able to respond independently to a potential threat from Russia, according to President Macron. What Croatia must certainly take into account in this discussion is that it avoids a real Europe of more speed, in which certain EU countries will, in particular, be more, more powerful, politically influential, regardless of what the rest of the EU's membership means, this is not an idea that we can just reject, but it should also be reminded that we also have permanent structural cooperation between the countries that have signed it, and among them is Croatia, too, before finally deciding to see and how this one idea affects our relations with NATO and the United States, how effective it is in the current conditions in the EU to command such an army and who will do so, whether the army will be European in some new uniforms or group of national armies commanding elected commanders. So there are absolutely a lot of issues to think about and Croatia should also start to bring The best decision in our country's interest. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102193	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. We have replicas, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you for the presentation of colleagues Klisovic, I would just like to hear in this little time how much you may have in the shortest lines that you believe would therefore be exclusively your personal perspectives which might be some kind of backbone of some common policy of the new that you mentioned is needed towards migrants and refugees. So how do you see a possible European response and then from the Croatian perspective of your personal opinion on these challenges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102195	Answer, colleague Klisovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102196	Thank you very much, so above all, EU policy towards migrants should be based on the principles of international law and the treatment of migrants as human beings who are empowered to international protection that they can achieve in the EU while they are in migrant status. This does not mean that they will remain living in the EU area when conditions are met for their return to the country from which they come from, this will be done. But they are absolutely entitled to full protection under international law recognised by the EU and the national order of the EU member states, and there should be no doubt there. However, in order to reduce the large uncontrollable inflow of migrants into the EU, it will not be enough just to go into politics from these points of view, views, foundations. It should work in those areas that generate migration, whether it works to calm down the political crises that generate migration, whether it works or not. as I mentioned on eliminating the causes leading to.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102197	I thank my colleague Klisovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102198	Dear counterpart Klisovic, here you can see that you have entered a bit of a theme related to the Marrakech Convention, but I would like to point out that this convention is, or a compact as they call it, in fact contrary to the sovereignty of the state. Yes, this Convention is all that it propagates, that is, what it tries to place is in opposition to the sovereignty of all European states, of all world states. With the fact that it is still very important to stress here there are 23 objectives of this Convention, there are various objectives. I find the goal very interesting. No. 5 which says to improve the availability and flexibility of regular migration. And when you get a little bit into the metrics, you'll actually see that it's working, that this is a key goal and that the whole convention is actually about this goal. How to facilitate the movement of people in the world, not taking care of the sovereignty of the states.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102199	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102200	Thank you, Vice President. So, the Maraca Convention does nothing to disrupt the sovereignty of the states. Why? Because it's sovereign law, it's actually a deal, it's not a convention or an agreement, it's just one agreement between statesmen. The sovereignty of every country's right to take and take over in the management of migrant processes is one of the recommendations found there. It means that it is the sovereign right of every country to take it and to reject it and thus sovereignty is not violated. The sovereignty isn't broken. Superstition should not be seen as absolute power within a hermetically closed community of political which has no contact with the world. That sovereignty in the 21st century isn't. And we need to understand that sovereignty is the highest power in a country that makes a decision in accordance with the interests of citizens living in that country but that does not mean a hermetically closed state because we ourselves will not ensure the safety of our people and our own country, nor can we in isolation provide, for example, climate change and many other global issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102201	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102202	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about migration, and I would like to say that, in fact, Croatian citizens are not interested in EU documents at all, agreements were called those Marrakech or I don't know how, a vast majority of Croatian citizens are interested in one fundamental issue, whether the border is crossing illegally or not. If the border crosses illegally, it creates uncertainty among people, they begin to fear that there will be criminal acts, God forbid terrorism, fear that they will run out of property or have some extra costs and they do not want it with a simple dictionary. That is the question the Prime Minister should have answered. Citizens among other things are interested in whether we will enter Schengen or not, whether we will be able to cross the Slovenian border without a passport or not. And Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is essentially not telling the truth when he says the border is not crossing illegally. He knows very well because it is just too obvious that the border on a daily basis crosses hundreds of migrants. And it's enough to call any other intended in Lika or even Gorski Kotar, policeman, official, ordinary citizen, and he'll tell you that migrants are passing through, that they're even raising in some parts and smaller tent settlements and that you can simply spot them naked in just a few hours. It is important to say that no one normal in the Republic of Croatia has anything against migrants, however, hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens have become migrants because of the bad policies of the SDP and HDZ government and for the sake of the search for a better life or work have left the Republic of Croatia but have done so in a legal way. So they crossed the border at the border crossing with valid documents, so passport, visa, work permit, which they already needed, and they tried at least to learn the language of the country they were going to. And no one mind that migrants come to Croatia and they can live here and live and work both the Syrians and the Iranians and the Russians and the Chinese and we see that they already live and work here. But we want to know, all Croatian citizens who are the identity of these people and we want to respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And that's all. But unfortunately, that's not happening. Here, they want illegal migration to be presented as ordinary migration or worse, they want to equalise illegal migrants with war refugees to whom every country has a duty, moral, international, legal and financial but not according to illegal migrants. Therefore, the government allows and allows its inaction to cross borders illegally instead of zeroing the number of illegal crossings, so it simply tells potential migrants in BiH that there is no passing here, so it tolerates these migrations and falsely presents adventurers of different profiles as some endangered people. And that's where we see and we hear that that's the mood that's in the so-called mood. the opposition, the endless subordination of the EU to structures, but above all, by the Prime Minister. Which we should not be surprised because he said in Brussels a few days ago that his party would literally prescribe the European People's Army programme in the upcoming euro elections. And here we see to what extent HDZ has been able to delete, not only its own Croatian identity but also its own party identity, and it is clearly permanently defined as a party of false patriots who worships the golden calf of European bureaucrats with a carefully staged right hand, on the heart, and a party that cherishes the form without any content, without any benefit for Croatian citizens. But let's stay for a moment with the migration. However much migration is concerned, it is important to point out that the only party that wants to deal with their cause is the Living Wall, everyone else deals only with the consequences, but whether it is Mr Plenkovic, Mrs Pusic, or Mr Klisovic, because they all mentally support the imperialist and aggressive NATO policy that created the migrant crisis, just as they support the policy of debt slavery coming from the United States of America from banking circles, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other creditors of modern times. Now Croatia is giving great money to calm the situation in Iraq, to calm the situation in Afghanistan, to calm the situation in Libya, I don't know tomorrow will be to calm the situation in Yemen, and we have just given the arms and the green light, the silent blessing that these countries are being destroyed, to violate the sovereign right of these people to decide for themselves about their fate and their future, that the people of Afghanistan without NATO interference, including Croatia, which is a NATO member, chose its own government, I guarantee you that there would never be any problems for migrants, and there would be no 20 and 30 million Afghans, nor Iraqis, nor Syrians, or Libyans, fled from its own homeland, that there was no aggression and occupation by NATO alliances, which therefore supports a complete Croatian political scene. And that's sad. And that's why this whole story came about, and that's where this problem can be cut in the root, where something can finally be solved. And nicely said my colleague Pernar the other day, how the bird put out the fire with a beak, so they told her it couldn't put out the fire, and she said here I tried. And we, we didn't even try. The Prime Minister and his circle of contemplators, selling weapons to Saudi Arabia, look at the crimes committed in Yemen by the Saudi army, see what crime was committed in Istanbul, is that the policy we support, is that humanity policy, humanity policy, ideal politics, Christianity policy, if you will, with which you falsely boast again? Peace in the world, solidarity and brotherhood policies with bloody hands cannot be promoted. That's where you're wrong, not just as a politician, but as a man. And when you understand the root of the problem, then you'll know what you're doing. Since I'm running out of time, I'll be in touch with the final word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102203	Thank you very much, Comrade Bunjac. We have replicas, a respected colleague, Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102204	Thank you very much. My colleague Bunjac, I am pleased to hear that you, I believe, are open to the acceptance of migrants who enjoy international protection, protection of international rights, and that you are not for hermetically closed Croatia that rejects anyone in Croatia. If you think people who run from the death of war will come with ID cards or passports, then you're wrong, some will, but some won't. People know things like that and they've been destroyed, and we've been through war as a people and we know how people have been running from houses before bombs, and they haven't been able to carry every single document they've ever wanted to file. But your demands to open up to a modern migrant policy, which is to establish the identity of people who enter, and that migrants who enter your country under the protection of international law, respect the Croatian legal order, are quite legitimate, and I think that the government, and the European Union must come from these two conditions in its migrant policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102205	Thank you, comrade Bunjac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102206	Thank you, well-respected representative Klisovic. As I pointed out in my debate and I don't see what the difference between you and Mr Plenkovic is, so you're saying exactly the same thing, I can only tell you one thing, Croatian citizens don't care what the European Union thinks, Croatian citizens, more than 90% of Croatian citizens are interested in not crossing the border illegally. Don't cross. I guarantee you that the plebisitarian mood of the Croatian people is. Then what's the limit for? Then I want to live in the Vatican, and here I am living in St. Peter's Square, if we can all go wherever we want, wherever I want to go, and now here I am, burning my passport and I.D., what do I need that for? Then I don't need to spend money, I don't know, take pictures, give fingerprints, why, if you can come to Croatia as anyone will, which tomorrow that man will ask to live in my backyard, in my bedroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102207	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bunjac, we have, I think we're talking about one subject here all the time, and few people are actually talking about facts. So we have a problem because we can't agree what the facts are. You're talking about the things you read somewhere, I suppose, that you're convinced, you wouldn't be talking about them if you weren't convinced they were true. But I urge you to reconsider the facts you're dealing with. Moreover, I invite you to go look at the refugee camps in BiH if you weren't, perhaps, I know that you are a man who likes to see things with your own eyes and I invite you to go see with your own eyes who these people are. I'm not saying that we need to be unreasonable, just that we have to talk about facts, and what the facts are right now is under question, and that's why we have big problems. And that's why we can't make a deal. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102209	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102210	Thank you very much, Mr. Glavasevic. I haven't been to Bosnia myself, but he was my colleague Pernar in the Great Claudius, Casinian province. According to him, 95% of the people there are men, working hard, who don't come from war areas. As a member of the National Security Committee, I took part in several sessions, spoke to a number of police officers, including the Associations to Help Migrants. I didn't get the impression that, therefore, these people are being treated badly, except in the part where they're trying to cross the border illegally. So I repeat again, let him come, regardless of race, nationality, religion and sex, whoever he wants, but at the border crossing, that's all. If a man comes from a war area, normally the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to help such a man, but to migrants leaving their homeland for undefined reasons or different reasons Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you for the response of my colleague, Bunjc]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102211	We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras is not present. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a few years ago I would say to myself that I was Euro Optimist, at which point it seemed to me that the EU was doing everything right, that it was perfectly consistent with that forward, that summer and bold vision of the future drawn and dreamed by its founders. It's clear to me today that, at least if not for us, I've been riding on a wave of optimism that's probably been created there by the fall of the Berlin Wall. I understand that we were not aware of the challenges that will put climate change or uncontrolled globalisation, the development of technology. I mean, one economic crisis almost cost the EU Greece. One refugee crisis cost the EU a wave of fear that has driven itself into populism and the reviving of fascism in some new routine in many places in Europe. One social network, or one technology whose consequences we did not understand, cost, not only the EU, but some other countries the unprecedented impact on the very nature of democracy, the nature of the political order that we have today and which has brought us unprecedented progress. All of this, I don't think, is that we can't view it as separate phenomena, but I think it's important that we understand that it's all connected and that we should understand what kind of political moment we're living in right now, what this is really about. And I think that today, in these discussions on the future of the EU, it is actually about fighting for the very soul of Europe. And more importantly, what we do here and what we can talk about here is the soul of the Republic. If we're talking about migration, and we talked a lot about it today, I wouldn't want it to be a mistake. The Republic of its borders must and should defend, I don't think we should open the borders without any attention or caution or discrimination. No, but I also cannot bear that my Republic of Croatia, which in the war drank a bitter cup of persecution and refugee, has denied people their rights under the International Treaties. I also cannot stand to make it impossible for these people to seek asylum and gain security from persecution. There's usually a sterile name, and that sterile name is a smoke escape, so, in a nice way, through a sterile term that doesn't sound that bad at all, it's actually just that people who knock on our door, we drive off that door without actually letting them ask us anything. It's a famous escape rifle. I also cannot bear that the Croatian police are making violence against those who seek for themselves only what each of us would ask for for for for himself and for his loved ones, which is peace and security. There have been cases like this, such cases have been written by the media, such cases have been written by the Ombudsman, such cases have been discussed in HS, and I think we should look the truth into the eyes. I'm sure none of these guys and girls who protect our borders would have brought themselves into a situation that the family, even if it wasn't, let's say it wasn't a family, and they were mostly families, but even young people like what it was, who tried, the truth, illegally crossing the border, that they were making violence that is systematic, that is known how it works, so they took your phone, so they broke it up, so they beat you up a little bit, and then sent you back. Some of them without shoes. I'm talking about things that were public but unlike most colleagues here, I've had a chance to hear it firsthand. I went there and I talked to these people. Look, I have no reason to doubt anyone would lie on purpose. I have no reason to doubt, too, that there would be so many cases that are so well-coordinated. But regardless, these are the things that need to be questioned and what the Home Secretary said about it and the Prime Minister just didn't convince me, but I know that something like that our police wouldn't do because they're not cruel people, they're people who protect this country, who listen to the orders that someone had to give them. And that's why there's one sterile name, push back. When we talk about the famous Marrakesh here, it's about affirming value. This is about, therefore, not imposing obligations, but talking about what we want, as I said, this is about talking about who we are and what we want to be in Croatia and us in Europe. That's what I'm saying, the question of value to me, maybe it's my fault, but it's just not an acceptable Pharisee because I don't have any other words for us to share people who show up at our door, and yeah, you're coming because there's a war somewhere with you, so you're okay, and you, well, you can't live and you can't feed your family where you live, I'm sorry, there's nothing we can do with you. So it's a Pharisee's, people to whom it's acceptable would, and many, I think I'm going to say, I'm going to use an example that might not be acceptable to everyone, so I apologize, but those people would give Joseph, Mary and Jesus who were running away from persecution in their own country, shut the door for them, and wouldn't let them go, wouldn't give them safety because they didn't have war. ... Come on, please, buddy... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102213	Dear colleagues, please do not interfere with such incursions with the respected colleague Glavasevic in his debate and let him finish his debate. Thank you very much, Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102214	Thank you. I can be called a fool, fellow Lucic, because of this example or because of my views but I only ask that Croatia forgets what it has been through, to find this real balance between reason and feeling because right now what is done is neither reasonable nor do I think that these are certain feelings that we are worthy of. In the end, we also mentioned that these fears of people who are ultimately only in search of peace and security are fueled by panic on social networks that we don't understand, we don't know how to deal with it, I asked the prime minister today what he means to do and how he thinks about giving Croatian citizens security in the digital ecosystem, in which time most of us, most Croatian citizens still get their information online. If they get lies there, it's not their fault that they feel the fear that helped the hunger they feel and because of which many people in this country are leaving, it turns them into anger at those who didn't deserve it. The anger should be felt by politicians who have not given them prosperity, to us. They should be angry at us, but instead they're angry at the naked people at our borders because they're afraid that if there's any more hungry mouths, their children and they'll never get their turn. It's the nature of fear. And that's what we have to fight. If we want to be more consistent with our values and our ideals, then we start at home. And then we have to deal with everything that's pouring oil on the fire. Lies and many of them are targeted and there are such, so the prime minister was talking about a hybrid kind of war, so there's a hybrid war, so I'm not going to say no, but we have to start to deal with it. The discussion will not be enough, more concrete measures must be taken. After all today, I say, I started out as a euro optimist, today I think we just have to be the euro realist. We have to decide where we want to take Europe and, above all, where we want to take Croatia because Croatia is Europe, there is our place, we dreamt of it, and we need to accept the responsibility that and what we do with us is what shapes Europe. And the way we treat the weakest who appear at our borders without any protection, if we put it as a priority to be cruel to them because it's effective, I don't think we're really doing ourselves any favors that we remember war, or generations that are just coming, that don't remember it. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102215	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Replica, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102216	Dear fellow Glavasevic, I was also in the Casin region, I was in Bihac, I was in Klajuda and I saw immigrants, so it's a wave of working age, young people, men. Official data from the BiH MUP say that about 7% of the vulnerable groups, meaning women and children, so we don't have a flossule on some refugees, means it's a working-age population that came to BiH and who came illegally and who illegally across the border enters the Republic of Croatia, means that it's even impossible for you to enter illegally without documents in Bosnia, you give them the right to do so. As for the Bible, Jesus and Mary did not flee from the war but went to the census because Nero had instructed them to do so, so that they were not refugees but were going to sign up or be listed where they were from.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102217	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic, the answer of my colleague Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, my colleague Zekanovic, because someone is able to work doesn't mean they need to close the door, because someone is working hard doesn't mean that where he went he can actually work, because it's not like you're flowering the economy in Baludistan, that's for sure, that people can only be there when they don't have a job to go to the Employment Office and act like everything's normal, namely, it's not. So, being able to work doesn't mean he didn't deserve the right to at least seek asylum, so he's rejected, and you know why they're illegally crossing, because the name was denied when they came to the border crossing to seek asylum there, so they're illegally crossing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102219	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102220	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I am pleased to discuss the reports of the Prime Minister on the meetings of the European Council this may not be interesting for everyone, but it is a contribution to strengthening political culture, increasing the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament. I am glad that my colleague Glavasevic has become an EU realist, I am a realist for a long time, and when you are a realist, then it is, then you are much harder to disappoint in life. The EU as such is an interesting thing for an average citizen in the Republic of Croatia from the aspect of freedom of movement, the possibility of hiring elsewhere is still a positive thing for the Republic of Croatia and for all of us in this country, for those of us who live here. I also believe that it is very important that we in Croatia, even though we are a smaller country, a smaller people are developing a pan-European consciousness, but this is especially true for larger peoples and for larger countries in the EU, all-European consciousness, means when politics is being run, when measures are being considered, national measures should be taken into account in the global world. This was not the case in Germany completely 3 years ago, so we experienced the destabilisation of the German political system, we experienced the strengthening of the AFD, which today to 14-15% of the popularity in Germany, because it went unilaterally. Well, even in the country itself, they haven't made a consensus on that migrant policy. I also find it very dangerous that today 2018 we listen to the words of one of the EU's most prominent leaders when you're talking about the situation for 30 years, it's irresponsible, it's irresponsible and it's bad because it's not true. We do not have 30 years of last century as an atmosphere in the EU today, it is simply not true, 30 years in Germany means that Adolf Hitler is in power, we do not have anywhere in the EU in the power of a party similar to Adolf Hitler, there is no such thing. Nor is what is most important now in this whole story, and that is what is most important for all of us in Europe, the EU, is that there are no wars in the EU, there are no wars, and I also find the possibility of wars really irresponsible, are we far from that. Wars could have been when you looked at the laboratory 3 years ago when it was a migrant crisis, but they were not there, why, precisely because of the EU, the EU has resisted such destabilisation means some wars over the inflows of migrants, people who wanted to move to the EU area. So that's reality, and then to cover up your incompetence you're talking about the European army, be careful talking about the European army that we're about to create. The European Army is a project that makes sense, of course it was already an attempt 64 years ago that failed the European Army project. Who then initiated it, our French friends.../The speaker speaks a foreign language, incomprehensible./... who did not ratify our French friends in the National Assembly, because they opposed Germany's rearming, who wanted Germany to arm itself again because of the Soviet Union, our American friends. So, let's be real serious, and let's say we Croats and friends of the French and Germans don't use such words, don't be demagogues you who speak against the populists, act like populists, talk about 30 years ago today is irresponsible. That is not how it works, and we who are EU members today have the right to say it because there is no ban on thought, there is no such thing. Because if we're gonna ban thoughts, then they're gonna strengthen these so-called. I call them manipulative populists. So those who consciously use misinformation to come to power, manipulative populists. Because populism isn't as bad as that, if it's about contact, if it's about closeness with citizens with voters, it's a good thing. Now we're coming back to ourselves, we need to emancipate ourselves, we need to say the next thing. You want a European army, great, we're in principle about having NATO so we have to sort it out, but before we can solve the issue of the Western Balkans neighborhood under the quotes of Southeast Europe that we're going to be global actors, so that's funny we're not in a position to speak in the EU right now, because we're part of it solving a space of less than 20 million people. That's true. BiH, the EU is a witness to the Dayton Agreement, regardless of Germany, Great Britain and France, as the British leave, come out. So where the EU is, Felipe Gonzales then signed the Dayton Agreement in Paris. So, a global actor, a European army, and we are unable to resolve the issue specifically in BiH where we have the responsibility of the EU as a witness, we have countries that have signed the Agreement as the Republic of Croatia, we have a witness in Germany, France and the United Kingdom and, of course, in neighbouring Serbia and when we talk about Macedonia, Kosovo, Albania. We're not able to solve problems there. And we have strong lands, strong mechanisms. Are we credible? No, maybe we're wrestling, we wrestling are less guilty, we're interested. But that's what we have to tell them. You're insecure if you're being unserious, let's go sit at the table, first solve what we can solve, and later we'll think about some kind of Syria, about Lebanon, about Mali, about what. This must be our approach, we have the right to do this because we are Europeans who later joined, but we have experienced our own skin, which means EU ineffectiveness in the 1990s, we have experienced it, so Americans have come to us to Pacific both the Republic of Croatia and BiH, we have done it ourselves, but we have had some understanding. Because the thing that's good for the EU, its characteristics are the following, no more myths of the Middle Ages, we're thinking about the future, we have our own national history. E, there the EU can be helpful and can Pacifice, stabilise, political, under quotes, europeanise Southeast Europe, and that is it. And the final word for so-called. In the Marrakech Agreement, there is no Marrakech Agreement that we once again invented in the Republic of Croatia, there is so-called The global pact or compact is whether, therefore, a modern document, just as there is no European integration, so colleagues in Serbia have taken over from us integration, there is one integration into the EU. So, the Marrakech Agreement has a good idea, however, it should be made clear that there are provisions, several provisions in that document that may not be very well formulated. And it needs to be made clear to the Croatian public that standards are being created to which someone will be able to call and that is very clear and that we must be aware of it, are being created in a way political obligations and it needs to be clearly communicated and we as a state must therefore be manifested. We have neighbors who are the opposite. What are we going to call them so they don't understand anything? We have to consider that. The Austrians are the opposite. Hungarians are the opposite. Bulgarians are the opposite. The Czechs are the opposite. Maybe the Poles are too. Maybe they're Italian, we don't know that. We have to, these are our neighbors, the wider neighborhood. We must therefore determine and make it clear that it is essentially positive, but it is not made for Croatians who go to Ireland, who go to Finland or Germany because they left 50 years ago and in Germany and elsewhere, but for, mostly, migrants from Africa and the Middle East. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102221	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac. We have a few replicas, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102222	Dear Representative Kovac, I did not fully, so I had one meeting, but I find it interesting that you had this presentation and I wish that in the context of what my colleague Petrov today asked the prime minister a question, and since you were included in it, because while you were the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, this Committee for Monitoring the implementation of the criteria set out in Chapters 23 and 24 with Serbia, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia made the decision and it was in the decision that 4 times a year the Committee had to meet. However, it does not meet in either 2017 or 2018. The Minister here is in violation of the government's decision that hasn't been changed. And you know very well that in the decision to set up the commission stands, I think it is one of the first decisions of the Commission itself, that a list of victims of Serbian camps will be drawn up and that they will be given legal protection. And our people are camping alone right now. They're pressing private charges, and the Committee is doing nothing and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] and European affairs. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102223	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy. My colleague Kovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102224	Thank you very much. So, the important thing for me is content, and the important thing for me is that two and a half years ago we installed several criteria in Serbia's negotiating frameworks, more specifically this very important thing, which is that the victims of war must have access to justice, otherwise it is embedded in Montenegro's negotiating framework. Montenegro solves the camper issue, it does so as a state. I am convinced that Serbia will also have to address the issue of Croatian campers. Our campers have the right to compensation, those who can, of course, prove it and of course the state will have to stand behind it, that's understood. Now we come to an important point. Why did we do that? For the sake of justice for our people for satisfaction, satisfaction, and for the change of culture in Serbia. This means the adoption of European values.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102225	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102226	Thank you very much, Reverend Kovac. So you're saying that the U.S. has come to Pacific this area. However, it seems to me that the United States has come here to prevent Croatian victory. You tell me, you're old enough. Did the United States prevent Croatia from entering Banja Luka or not? Here, that's one question. And if by any chance the Croatian army had entered Banja Luka and it was only 10km from the city, would there be a Republic of Serbia and such problems in BiH today? Is BiH Pacificed after 20 years or destabilized after 20 years? It seems to me that Croatia has achieved its military goal in co-operation with the BiH Army, in order for Bosnia to be a much better country, much more decorated, much happier and calmer than if the United States had not interfered in the events in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102227	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac, my colleague Kovac's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102228	So now we can talk for hours about what might have been, which wasn't, why something was but the fact is that Croatia was freed. Croatia was occupied, Croatia was freed, part of the territory was peacefully reintegrated, which is a great success and for neighbouring BiH we can say is Pacific, however, that it is unfortunately not a functional state and now we have to think instead of what it might have been, we will not spend time on it rather than what we can do to make it a functional state. We have here, for example. and the model Belgium, in Belgium, all those language communities of the Flames, the German speaking area, the community and the French speaking area have their Parliaments, their governments, and everyone chooses their representatives. Both the EU and NATO alliances have their seats in the EU, so they can be inspired by the model Belgium for BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102229	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Kovac, for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102230	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens who listen or follow us, we are discussing the subject of the report by the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic from the European Council. We see here that today a very important topic has been imposed, it dominates these discussions of ours, and that's the issue of migrants, the migrant crisis, and it's about the consequences, it's about events, it's a little bit about the causes, not to say at all. Let me remind you, in early 2016, I proposed to this House and asked that the problem of migration and migrants be placed as a item of the agenda, and since then no one has considered it important to put it at the plenary session of the Assembly. Which is actually the cause and where, what will be the development of the migrant crisis, which will wait for Europe, the EU, we can read if we know demographic tendencies, economic and if we know geopolitical turmoil in the competition of major forces in this area. When we talk about demographics, we need to know that over the past years and especially in the coming decades, there has been a real demographic explosion in Asia or the Middle East, and especially in Africa, so I'm just going to list a few countries that will have 100 million inhabitants in 2050. It's Egypt, it's Iran, it's Yemen, even he'll have what's surprising, it's Turkey. Now imagine what will happen when these people who, due to climate problems, because of their lack of water already now and because of their eating problems, when they start thinking about looking for life for themselves, and on the other hand, the West, as far as demographics are concerned, I won't say that they're dying, it's falling. Germany will have 60 million inhabitants by the end of 2050, so 20 million will disappear. The countries of Europe, including the European part of Russia, will be reduced by 130 million people by 2050. Russia will not be able to maintain infrastructure at the southern border with China. Why am I talking about all this? We simply need to speak seriously, with arguments and with far-reaching thinking. What needs to be included here in particular is a change in geopolitical and geostrategic relations, especially when it comes to Europe and the EU. All the other changes have occurred, we have a new American doctrine, a new American policy that practically destabilises the EU, and in that sense we saw on one hand the President of France, Mr. Macron, criticising President Trump, he quickly retaliated, so we see that there are no more alliances between the EU and the United States as it was before or as expected. In this sense, nothing is happening in Croatia, you see. Our foreign policy on this is silent, in this House no debate has been held on this subject, around us the world is fast-moving, overruling, and we talk often about trivial things. Now that's a question, what place does the migrant crisis take? I will immediately say when we talk about it in front of the party We change Croatia whose committees for foreign policy, economy and demographics have discussed these problems, I can say that we gentlemen, we are not sure in Croatia. We're not safe. During that time, we are not convinced by anyone else, from the minister of police, prime minister, the foreign ministry, and stories and images from the field say otherwise. We look at people on routes where migrants are passing towards Slovenia, according to Austria, further towards Germany to look for their place under the sun, that's quite another story, people are scared when a group of 10, 50, 100 people pass by your houses, your fields, you're just not sure. We don't even know how many thousands of people go through Croatia and it's very dangerous. My intention is not to create fear and panic, but we must not hide the truth from Croatian citizens. We're not sure. And why aren't we sure? Well, because we don't have a defined policy towards migrants. Why don't we have a defined policy towards migrants? Why don't we have a defined policy towards migrants? So because it is waiting here for Brussels, not here what the Parliament will say, what the Croatian people will say, what policy towards migration will be taken, but what it means is what it is, what someone will say from Brussels and how it will behave. Migration will be a permanent problem and danger in these areas. To be clear, there is an approach to migration, economic political, mixed with terrorism. What I should point out is, when I first mentioned, that the laws of Europe, demographically fall, it needs a new workforce on a continuous basis. In only one Germany is missing annually between 600-800 thousand workers, new every year. But let's see how that should work. At the time of the former Yugoslavia, the same German woman had great needs for foreign workers. However, they sent, to Greece, to the former Yugoslavia, to Portugal, to buy, by the bureaus, to hire, they prepared the staff they needed, the papers were solved and they went with passports, trains, buses, to a certain workplace. Something like that today has to be restored. And not that this, these migrants, they're actually modern, modern slavery. They used to catch slaves in Africa, 17 and 18 centuries later, now they come alone in thousands drowning, it's chaos. It's not politics, it's chaos, it's a direct threat to all EU countries, to all Europe. In that sense, which are our views, you could talk about it a lot more, but this is not an opportunity for that. We don't need dry reports from a council meeting of a non-existent state, which is powerless in all of this, even now that America has pressed, we need to know what's going on around us, as a small country, because we are particularly vulnerable. In that sense, it is also the position on behalf of the party PH, Let's change Croatia, no one can cross Croatia's border without documents. No one. Those who do not have documents must be treated separately until certain parties are investigated. What is humanitarian character, a problem, so we have to treat ourselves humanely, however, humanism, so that's what Pope Francis himself said, in a discussion on migration debates, he said, if it's such a number of migrants that cross over, certain frameworks, numerically and endanger national security, then it's no longer just a question of humanity. Here is the question of humanity, in my opinion humanism, I won't say, it's suppressed, but other interests are interests, interests of capital. The key problem of the EU is that it is not a Union of citizens, people, it is a Union of citizens, people, it is a Union of capital. And in the EU, capital capital in capital, it doesn't matter where the workers come from, they can come from all sides of the council, it's important that they're cheap and work hard. However, when these workers from their jobs go to the streets, to the floors, to live in buildings, with the local population, then there are problems, and they no longer care. I don't think much of the Croatian citizens are informed about it, but they feel that something bad is right behind the hills and that it really needs to act preventively. So in this context, I will mention that 22 million people are currently living in the EU, who have come outside the EU. In 2016, only 2 million immigrants came in that year. Please, it's huge numbers. Croatia cannot stay, meaning in such a context, that it only sees what happens, etc. We want a safe Croatia. Whoever comes here, we need to know who comes, why comes, who needs to keep us for economic reasons, they need to respect the law of this country, the customs, the tradition and the language. All the others are loose stories. And everyone else who talks, in another way, and they treat all of these people who think like me in another sense or just say, you're xenophobia, this, this, what, these people are insecure and not just that, they're not talking in the interest of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102231	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. The next debate, dear colleague Pernar, is not present, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102232	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, it is interesting to listen to your report from the European Council, that all the debates, but absolutely all of them, and already 20 of them, have been focused on the issue of migrants. So the question of migrants is the Marrakeche convention, that's the first finding. The second finding, unfortunately, here, the SDPs are almost there now, the HDZ has something, but what they have reported, we have one agreement, actually both on the one hand and on the other, that the Marrakesch Agreement is fine. I haven't heard the opposite attitudes yet, and I feel bad about it, but apparently the diameter managed to do what he wanted, to set up his army properly and to make a difference from the Istanbul Convention, this time there will be no conversation. Given the public's great interest in this topic and parliamentary representatives, I would like to hear that this subject, precisely the Marrakes Agreement and the compact, as we call it, is being discussed at a plenary session and not just on committees, although I am glad that even on committees it will be, but here it is, I recommend... because I believe that Croatian citizens must hear it, and that there is obviously one wish, will, with parliamentary representatives to discuss it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, not the HDZ, because it's not exactly pragmatic, but I see the rest of the assembly is in the mood for discussion. So, you're nice and in your presentation you pointed out that this problem exists and you said that there are countries that after, if I'm not mistaken you said a year and a half of the debate on this subject and everything was agreed, 192 countries, here if I'm not wrong, the United Nations, all of them were for this Agreement, it was only Trump and the United States came out, a little later Hungarians, but suddenly there's some domino effect, something is happening, I'm glad that I personally succeeded, here it is, that I influenced this topic to come into focus, in the focus of the public in Croatia, I'm glad... I'm glad it's being discussed, because if today's 6.7 countries, I wouldn't want to mistake the number given up on this agreement, I think something is still hiding in it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about that agreement, he looks very nice at first sight, so he looks very nice, as the Istanbul Convention looks, that is, what it looked like, because... If we're talking about it, it's 90, so I'm not going to say 99 or 95% of things okay, and it looks nice, and it's all in the cellophane, but if we scratch a little bit better under the surface, we'll see that there are things that aren't right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to try a few things here, but before I say anything about this, I still have to say, accepting or not accepting this agreement is showing the statesman, and that is you, Mr. Plenkovic, I'm glad you're here, and our President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović, what they think of the key problem of the world today, of course we have environmental problems, problems of war, problems of peace, but one of the key problems today. Are you a sovereign or a globalist, or are you more, a sovereign or a globalist? Unfortunately for what you said, you're more of a globalist and very little of a sovereign. And I am sorry very much from one Croatian who, for this border and preservation of it, has recently died, many Croatian soldiers, thousands of them, that one prime minister and president of the Republic of Croatia who are not sovereigns is coming from this very Croatia... Better to clarify one thing, I don't know why you're here saying that the president has the opposite attitude from the prime minister, so they have the same attitude. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally didn't hear the president say it wasn't for the deal, here's to correcting me to the Prime Minister in the closing statement, I didn't hear her. I heard her go to Marrakesh, so she said she wouldn't go to Marrakesh, and then later in that statement in the same sentence she said she wasn't in, but she wasn't against the Marrakech Agreement, or the compact. So, I haven't heard yet, on the other hand, here it is, since you care about having that fellowship, I recommend you have coffee so let's be on your side that the rest of us know what we're on, that she's for the deal, or maybe pleasantly surprised us. She didn't surprise us for the Istanbul Convention, she kept her mouth shut, and I have to admit that you're a bigger guy than she is, so good for you. Yet you were so consistent with yourself and you were what you claimed to be all along and you pushed it out. You said, "I am for Istanbul and you will be HDZ." And good for you. And she kept her mouth shut. We didn't hear her. We haven't heard her say it's good, it's bad, I'm in, I'm against it. I'd argue with her a little because I think she's a statesman if she's not a sovereign already, she has to be determined. You are, well done. You're for Marrakech, and you HDZs will be in Marrakech's office unanimously, because I'm telling you so. And that sounds nice. And there you are, you're good here, very good. If you were a little bit more in the other part of the political spectrum, I'd enjoy being in your party, or you'd be my political commander, unfortunately, you're a little bit, it's gone a little in the other direction, so it's not possible. Well, I would now, as soon as I got in and in Marrakesh, still mention what happened to Mr. Kaikic, today you answered me in one way, I find it inappropriate, if he hadn't reported it. Here I am reporting to you right now, that the Croatian citizen by means of the Serbian Intelligence Service which was directly under the control of Mr. Alexander Vukic was examined for 5 hours, and the topic of the main survey was that the Croats who were in concentration camps in the 20th century in the 1990s in Serbia were seeking compensation during the time they spent in the camps. And we keep our mouths shut. I mean, I'm talking, but I think you should talk. And then when I ask you if you have finally raised the issue of Serbia and its entry into the EU on the European Council, I do not hear that answer. And you know as well as I do, you know very well and you all know who you are here in the assembly that this is an ideal opportunity to really solve these issues. I understand that it's not easy, and if the Brussels policy wasn't a wave, but come on, here, try to enjoy that sacrifice a little bit, here's what I wish you were in Vukovar when it was this protest. There were people there who were personally, had personal losses in the Homeland War, and I'd like you to talk to them a little bit, with those thousands of people who lost someone, in the Homeland War, to feel a little with them, to actually why they came there. So when you ask them if Serbia should finally tell us where they went, where they died, pay, let them pay for ours, so Croats who were in concentration camps, finally. And finally, let's ask the question and the boundaries, to solve that too, and why not the question of war damage. That's what they want, and you as the statesman representing them have to sort of do it. And finally, I'll tell you, you were talking about Mr. Tusk, you were talking about Tusk and you were talking to him about the situation in BiH. You didn't say the key. I don't really know which is other than election law your as Prime Minister's target there. I'd like him to be clear, for example. to make it sound like this, I, as Prime Minister, want the Croats to get their third entity, or their entity, as soon as possible. But I didn't hear it from you. Ask some Croats in BiH, you have two HDZ deputies coming out of that space, they'll confirm the same thing to you. Maybe not loudly because they're afraid, but when you're alone with them, they'll tell you the same thing. And that's the only way to keep these remains of the Croats in BiH, the only way we all know that. And on the third hand, it was horrifying to listen to Mrs. Pusic, here, horrifying. It's actually, you're there, yet much more moderate than she is. So she spoke, in fact Croatia has nothing to get involved in BiH politics. You're messing around, but you're too shy not to mind Europe. If the only way for Croatia to take advantage of its own, by signing the Dayton Agreement, let's take advantage of it, let's make an ultimatum. We ask for an amendment to the agreement, we protect the Croats in BiH because soon they will not be there and when they are not there, we are in Croatia in trouble. So, I'll finish. I wish they were Croatian statesmen and that's you, that's our President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, a little less globalists and a little more sovereigns. To listen a little more to Hrvoj Zekanovic and a little less to Tusk or someone else from Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102233	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. The replica of my colleague Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102234	I've been listening to my colleague Zekanovic very carefully. I'm only answering for a little while. So this, dear colleague Zekanovic, around Serbia, that there are no confusions there are criteria, there are so-called. Transitional criteria embedded in the negotiating framework, in this famous chapter 23 dedicated to the judiciary and fundamental rights. This also covers the question of compensation for campers, meaning people who are victims of war, have the right to access justice, courts. It refers to the missing, refers to the Croatian minority because it says that Serbia must implement its legal framework. And international agreements are part of the legal framework. Therefore, all these criteria are in place and Serbia will surely be on its way to the EU because it is in its interest if we trust its leaders and must meet it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102235	Thank you. We've got, just a little bit, Mr. Zekanovic. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Zekanovic: May I answer?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102236	The Honorable Chairman, for the second time and I had to react, my colleague Miro Kovac deceives the public, violates the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, says that something is embedded in the negotiating standards, so he talks about getting rid of all this, deceives the public, and we have the fact that Croatian citizens, campers themselves, press charges, hire lawyers themselves, instead of being given legal protection and legal aid by the Croatian state and the reason is not to call the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102237	.../Intruder Brkić: Thank you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102238	Be braver colleague Kovac, at the time you started that commission...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102239	.../Intruder Brkić: A colleague of Grmo./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102240	...and this minister does not call on him because he is in conflict of interest because she has been engaged and has advised the Government of the Republic of Serbia.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102241	I'd like to thank my colleague Grmo. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you referred to Article 238, I would ask you to read Article 238 again. The Rules of Procedure will see if there is anything in that article that you have spoken of. So you misused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a reminder based on Article 239. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102242	I must say, at the beginning, that I'm in a terrible state of mind when my colleague Grmoy breaks his Rules of Procedure in this way. My colleague, I was given a replica, not to you, so I answer, not to you. Do you understand that? Just a little bit to get you to look at this. And a little bit of you, Mr. Grmoya, agree with yourselves, are you in Marrakech, are you in Istanbul, where you are, are you on the left, on the right, up below. Make a little deal. Here you have this believer, you have an atheist, so a little bit of a deal where you are and what you're secular, political because you're nowhere to be found. And you fellow Kovac, here's what I'm going to say to you, any colleague of yours, I deeply appreciate you, it would have been better if you hadn't given the line. [[Upadica Brkić: Kolega Zekanovic.]] It would really be better for you if you hadn't given it up. Because there is if I'm not wrong about Chapter No. Serbia's 34th relations with Kosovo. There is no chapter in Serbia's relations with Croatia, it does not exist. And it doesn't exist. And really why do Croats go to Serbia to press private charges if that will be settled. My colleague, you know that's not true, and it would be better if you kept your mouth shut, I'm sorry if I appreciate you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102243	I thank you for your answer. You responded to the line by your colleague Miri Kovac, not Mr. Grmoja, and you have nothing to replicate to Mr. Grumoja but to replicate your colleagues to Kovac. So I'm asking you to stick to it in the future. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of re-respected colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102244	My colleague Zekanovic, you have spoken very incorrectly to me, so I haven't spoken to you at all. When you talk about why I am, I went to elections alone with MOST and got the trust of Croatian citizens and you are with this man here, here you are in the picture, look, with Andreja Plenkovic, see you here, how sweet you two are, something Plenkovic looked better meaning than now. So don't tell me what I am and who I am. I voted in every vote, so I didn't run away from anything and now you're playing a great sovereign and you and HDZ went to the polls together, don't sell it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102245	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. You did not call for an injury article, I give you a reminder based on Article 240 by taking away words. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102246	238. So, like this, I'm glad to look just as good as I looked three years ago, 2.5 years ago when it was a campaign. We did a great job, that picture's in front of the cathedral with the thumbs, great. Unlike you, I told Mr. Plenkovic no, and he chased you, he gave us a basket, and now if it were up to you, you'd be little good enough to still have your ministers and... But you can't because you got your foot up your ass. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102247	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you for peace at the Assembly. Dear colleague Zekanovic, you did not specify, you listed the article, but you did not mention any breach of the Rules of Procedure, you misused the Rules of Procedure by virtue of Article. 239. I give you a warning. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102248	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here today we have had a real debate on many topics within this already common debate, or reports submitted by the Prime Minister on the meetings of the European Council. However, two topics were somehow dominated, which is the issue of BiH and the issue of migration. In these ten minutes, I'd just like to say something about what hasn't been said yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102249	Dear, esteemed colleagues, I beg you. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Dear colleague Zekanovic, I would like to ask you to step away from the session. Coli Zekanovic, a colleague of Zekanovic, a colleague of Zekanovic, I have given you a notice from the session until, until the end of this agenda point, I ask you to leave the session. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at 19 hours and 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102250	[[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING IN 19.42 HOURS]] Continued individual debate, esteemed colleague Davor Ivo Stier, with an apology for interrupting. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, an apology accepted, we should actually apologize to those who challenged her, but here we could say that demagogy eats its children, as it ends. But let's cut back perhaps now in view of the time lost on the most important thing I wanted to mention, as regards the debate that has developed on BiH. There we heard a lot today and also critical tones towards Croatia's state policy about BiH about the need to go some way that the government of the left centre then of the SDP and the HNS was launched in agreement with some EU member states. There have been such discussions also for the public but also for the sake of the here truth to be spoken here in the Croatian Parliament. I think it is necessary to say that on 1 October 2013 they participated, or we also participated in the European Parliament, together with Enlargement Commissioner File, had one action that led to all BiH actors agreeing that it was 1 October 2013 that the electoral law must be amended in principle, on the principle that one nation should not choose their own representatives and that everyone here agreed. And on that basis, the European Parliament's resolution was later elaborated in early 2014, where it was first discussed the need to adopt the principles of federalism, and in the electoral law it was later discussed, about the harmfulness not only of separatism but also of centralism. At that time, however, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launched an initiative, and later today we heard that both Germany and the UK have accepted and made their own initiative, to put the issue of electoral law aside and to move forward with economic and socio-economic reforms in BiH and to focus the whole EU policy on this. It hasn't given up changing the electoral law but to put it on for a better time. My opinion, if that moment had been lost, that moment which was created to make one step, then it was agreed was clear and the position of the European Commission and those views could have helped to bring about this desired change. With this move, this was left at some margin for a better time and it was not seen that without resolving political, structural problems, all possible achievements on the socio-economic plan in BiH could be questioned. And it seems to me that only after these elections may some have seen it, and some are not yet, which is clear from some debates. So it is said that there is a need for greater pluralism within the Croatian Corps in BiH. And that's true, but it's just going to be achieved by changing the election law, it's often said, and today there's been some illusions about how relationships are, for example. between the political leaders of the Croats in BiH with Dodik, but this is part of the consequences of this electoral system, or a new electoral law that would ensure, that Croats feel safe whoever is elected, will be a legitimate representative of that people, would open up a larger space for pluralism and would certainly open up more opportunities for a better dialogue and with Bosniaks, and then, of course, in that context, a different way of functioning the Federation. So these are some of the things that are missing from this debate and I think it was important to mention it. I'm not going to go to all the other topics that opened today because it would be too long and we don't have enough time, but I wanted to refer to this, I think it was important to mention it in this debate, and also as a preparation for that debate that awaits us about BiH or if you want to talk about our policy in support of BiH as a country where both Croats and Bosniaks and Serbs and all citizens must feel that they have the same rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102252	Thank you, fellow Stier. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102253	Thank you very much, Vice President, my colleague Stier never opposed the SDP government's amendments to the electoral law that would ensure the equality of the Croatian people with the other two, never. There was not enough political will and trust among BiH's main actors to amend the law this way in 2013 and therefore there was no such change. And that's why we tried to build trust and facilitate this process and we started doing it through the economic and economic segment to get to the hardest, most sensitive, and that's political. And don't forget that just during the SDP government, Dragan Covic was elected to the BiH presidency by the votes of the Croatian people. It is therefore crucial to relax relations between BiH's main political factors and act exactly in a way that creates conditions for changing electoral legislation in line with the equality of three peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102254	Thank you, dear colleague Klisovic. Answer, Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's counterpart Klisovic, I followed closely how the whole situation was going on then, there was indeed a difference there between the position of the then foreign minister, the Ban Court and Pantovic on the issue, so there were different approaches. I think this approach where the emphasis has been placed on socio-economic issues that are important socio-economic issues, but just put an emphasis on it, has shown that it has not led to the desired results, that we have an institutional and political crisis and therefore, it is good to put the focus on it now. What is necessary and I think that what we can all learn from this is that we need the greatest consensus of Croatian policy on relations and policy towards BiH in order to achieve the desired goal. And in that we must all, of course, work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102256	I thank my esteemed colleague Stier for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102257	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this debate, we ask another simple question, and this is how much will Croatian citizens cost to take care of migrants, how much is it costing us these NATO actions that we are trying to resolve the situation that we ended up doing? Here, if the citizens don't know, we'll give short information for NATO actions next year 125 million kuna, according to these reports we received on the table, we'll give 300,000 euros in the mutual fund, we'll give for the refugee mechanism in Turkey 6 million euros, we'll give for the crisis fund in Africa 600,000 euros, here we give for the Sahel region 200,000, for Lake Chad 100 000 euros, we pay for the Afghan police, so I really didn't know that Croatia was so rich that it could finance both the foreign army and the police, which might be okay if it was able to protect its own border at the same time. Croatian citizens rightly fear how much they will have to provide social assistance for migrants tomorrow, for their housing, for employment measures without themselves being able to achieve elementary rights while a lot of Croatian workers have to work for a minimumer, literally destroying their health so as not to say getting a coat of arms on their backs and Croatian pensioners are digging through the trash. From these two reports, as well as all previous reports, we see in essence that the only constant in the work of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic is a struggle for his own career and positions in Brussels and at the same time cowardice when it is necessary to fight for the interests of the Croatian people. The difference between HDZ representatives and the Living Wall representatives is that the first ones are ready to take care of their own, material benefits while we are ready to lay down our lives for Croatia. This distinction began in the time of the Homeland War and continues today, and it is not said for nothing to burn iron while it is hot. This government's attitude towards the EU cannot be assessed differently but rather as condescending, subjective, humiliating from the point of view of people's interests, in short, pathetic, anemic and grotescan. The reports that we receive here in the Assembly only further shed light on all misery, which is what a servant's mentality from a people's government and confirms what we've been saying all along, which is that with the HDZ government, there will be no and cannot be a true rebirth of an independent and sovereign Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102258	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this final word. On behalf of the Government, the President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102259	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, thank you to all the clubs and representatives who have participated in this united debate of the 4 meetings of the European Council, which would have become commonplace, in two parts, one useful and attempt by a series of representatives to discuss meaningfully, meaningfully, on the subject, to contribute to what are key global European topics, which are Croatia's positions, how to look at our path towards both the Euro Zone and Schengen, as how to prevent illegal migration, how to help Croats in BiH, how to articulate our position in European institutions, how to take themes such as digitalisation, innovation, competitiveness, investment, take a step in the wake of what brings us to IV. The industrial revolution because these are the key topics of today's world, and I am truly grateful to those who, with a desire to have this debate as it was originally imagined by the government's position, and we use it. There is, of course, this other side, a party in which every debate in my opinion is aware of so much more than the banal, untrue, manipulative, pathetic debates or attempts that have nothing to do with the subject show the enormous ignorance of the club representatives such as this last presentation here of the Living Wall, which are the best picture, opportunity, legitimacy, what these parties are essentially, who they represent and what they stand behind, literally behind nothing, behind a simple attempt, to use this stage, to say something, and about topics they really know nothing, or have anything to say, and maybe it's good, that the bigger circle of people actually realizes it. So this debate from my point of view is good, because those who have nothing to say are naked here and then the public realizes that these topics, which are not important to them, in the sense that they have ever made an effort... from manipulation, lies, misinformation, something too much to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's good and that's useful, and every time I'm more convinced that despite having to admit a little and agonizing patience, which requires this to be heard, it's good that clearly the Croatian public knows who is on the Croatian political scene. And it's useful and it's quite useful and it's quite obvious, however, it should be played on social networks that even those who cultivate or do not know for what reason some sympathy, according to such parties and politicians, understand their despair and complete lack of confidence. To refer somewhat to these debates concerning the attitudes of some clubs in the BIH. First of all, the opinion of MP Klisovic, who speaks on behalf of the SDP, which is nothing disputed, nor the subject, nor the way, but it is a controversial timing, so you don't think, colleague Klisovic, with our experience, that we have now, just after the election, opened the topic of electoral law with our partners for the first time. So there are no talks that any, who and I, who and the Croatian member of the government, who deals with foreign policy, one or some earlier, parliamentary representatives in their international activities, European representatives at European Council level did not have a chance, and that the topic, coordinated and coordinated, was not opened. What's the problem, though, is that those who should hear it at that level don't see it until the problem comes to an end. When it escalates. Btw 2014 was not chosen by Dragan Covic, as a candidate for the BiH presidency, because you were in power then, but because this scenario, majorisation, could not be repeated three times because Komsic could not run three times in a row at the time. And yet, yours seems to me the president of the party was going to the congratulators when he won the election back then. Therefore, we all know very well that we have no problems with institutional memory, nor with the belief that we are doing right and good and we will continue to do it, firmly, very clearly and very affirmatively, for interests, according to my deep conviction of the entire BIH, what is good is not good for BIH as a country. For relations between three peoples, not just for the position of Croats, which should be equal and constitutional. On the other hand, everything we've done, we're doing with full confidence that we're doing good, the way we're doing it, and the goal of helping to remove the anomalies that are happening here, practically desavouring both letters and spirit and the foundation of what's the Dayton Paris pension agreement. What you find easy is that maybe it's okay and legal, it's exactly the rhetoric that those who want this to happen are using. All those who want this to turn out to be normal, say exactly what you're saying here today for the Assembly speaker, and it's bad for you as a politician who represented Croatian interests, and thinks you're trying to represent them, to use that thesis that it's okay, it's not okay, and that was my main message. And the message was that we wouldn't let it go until this topic was resolved, because no one else in the way that it has articulated it won't even be able to articulate it anymore. Because the objective representative of the Croats from the BIH, in this situation, which you could clearly say, in international forms, is now, by the principle of representativeness, gone. Who's gonna say that? As far as this migration issue is concerned, let me say something. So, very much confused, very much false information, very much manipulation towards the public, not pears and apples, but all the possible genres and sports that are trying to change, and yet from all these events, no real content-based reason to say, people, this is really a problem. But some of the formulations, maybe someday, could be. It's not serious, it's escalating, exactly what's happening right now in one... The campaign, which has begun, so what has been generated in our country, has no roots here, is somewhere else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will recur, this theme will be used. No other topic, such as the topic, the refugee migration crisis, has affected the change of political architecture in European countries so far. Nothing, no major financial crisis, no institutional crisis, no other problems, this is a crisis, which has thus been perceived in public amongst the citizens of a number of members, that has experienced the greatest political consequences. The way to solve this issue in a meaningful way, it's rational to approach it that way and that's what we do. So we work in a way that has a national dimension, which has a European dimension, which has a global dimension. In either of those three engagements, we are not giving up what is most important to us, and that is our national interest. So our national interest to protect borders, i.e. Croatian police, from illegal migration, that at European level, their legal and institutional action and adaptation and good absorption of European funds to adapt and meet the role, which is to protect the EU's external border, we get a positive decision for Schengen, and thirdly, that we recognise globally phenomena, trends and be part of the international community's response to these problems, not to isolate ourselves from solutions and not to participate them. It's not the politics of this government. The policy of this government is rational and approach is quite pertinent how any level of solving this migration problem should be done, so that all of these thesis, these parties, strangers, individuals, who try to make a difference in a rational approach like any other topic half a year ago, will not get any effect. In rational people and I appeal to it, it's my message to the public and to other parties, people will eventually see who's responsible, who's serious and who's not. Those who do not grow up like mushrooms after rain. And it's very obvious. But people see it, too. In the end, people will decide who's serious and who's not. Who's the manipulator and who's not. Who's normal to say it's okay, to lie to Croatian voters and Croatian media and then live with it and who isn't. And that's what people will see, it's a taste of this debate, which, unfortunately, I don't know what time we're here, I don't say in all of us, but I appreciate all the ones that have constructively given up the metrics of the debate, but I will insist on it both as Prime Minister and as the entire government in communication with the Parliament because we have a contentious discussion about the public, but also in another way sensitizing our public on European issues. We are going to meet the elections for the European Parliament, extend the effort of dialogue with citizens, consultation with citizens and through direct conferences and through, therefore, social networks and portals, the Internet, to ask, should be one of the ways for people to know a little more about content, but justified and quantifiable, rather than manipulative, incorrect, showing as some knowledge, and basically giving up to those who know more about these topics really little and cheap. Here, thank you so much for this occasion. I believe this report will be useful to those who want to be better informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102260	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, for this final word. We have exhausted all the debates, I would like to conclude the debate, once again thanking the Prime Minister, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, and the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Marija Buric Pejcinovic, on the report submitted. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102261	First report on the meetings of the European Council. A report on the meetings of the European Council and of the European Council 50, held in Brussels on 28 and 29 June 2018. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, reformists and independent representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I am voting for the next conclusion. The report shall be adopted on the meetings of the European Council and of the European Council. 50th held in Brussels on 28 and 29 June 2018. Please vote. I find that most of the votes, 80 for, 22 abstentions and 22 against, the European Council and the European Council report on the meetings of the European Council and the European Council held in Brussels on 28 and 29 June 2018 (b) The report on the meetings of the European Council and the European Council on Article 50 and the Euro Summit Member States held in Brussels on 17 and 18 October 2018, submitted by the President of the Government of TH, the debate was concluded. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, Reformists and Independent Representatives, the SDSS Club, I am voting for the next conclusion. The report on the meetings of the European Council and the European Council of Article 50 and the Euro Summit Member States held in Brussels on 17 and 18 October 2018 shall be adopted, please vote. I find that most votes, 84 for, 27 abstentions and 20 against, the European Council and the European Council report on meetings of Article 50 and the Euro Summit Member States held in Brussels on 17 and 18 October 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102262	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the housing law in assisted areas, second reading, P.Z. number 411. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of Article 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure. 197. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. I call upon the representative of the proposer, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care, Mr. Nikola Mazhar, to explain to us the final draft of the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102263	Dear Vice-President of HS, honourable parliamentary MPs, as we are told, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Housing Care in Supported Areas. I would point out that at the 9th session of HS, held on September 28th in our first reading, we discussed the House Care Act. I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate at the time. I would point out, therefore, the opportunity to repeat the objective of adopting this Law is, above all, the establishment of an effective, operational and efficient system of measures and activities that will contribute to the return, remnant and settlement of the population in these areas subject to this Act, given the new regulation of the area with developmental difficulties in accordance with the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Housing in assisted areas will regulate housing in these areas. What is important for the highlighted, other than housing in assisted areas, remains in areas of special state concern, in order to continue the continuity and work of state property management in these areas. For this very reason, the work cycle is increasing by 151 units of local self-government, i.e. the Law will be implemented to a total of 336 units of local self-government or 2/3 areas of the Republic of Croatia. Compared to the current Law, I point out the increase in cash compensation for users of the donation program of building material for building, building or rebuilding houses. An increase in the volume of donation of state property, a reduction in rent prices for certain categories, an increase, therefore, and a range of donations in areas which so far have not been enabled, and housing of the necessary and professional staff. A more detailed arrangement of the extraordinary housing procedure. The housing of victims of domestic violence, and the reduction of the deadlines of the note and the possibility of purchase. The whole housing process is also simplified, and the rights and obligations are largely more precisely defined for the users themselves, which will certainly contribute to a transparent, but also to fast and efficient housing care. Amongst the first and second readings of the Law, certain articles have been corrected, certain amendments have been made, above all, adopted the comments of the Committee on Law, and are... The technical provisions of several articles are explained the retroactivity of the provisions of Art. 51st and Art. 51st. 53. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certain proposals by the representatives and representatives of HS were also respected during the first reading, but the applicant himself intervened in certain provisions of the Law in a way that had been completed, deleted or modified. They also agreed to certain provisions and complied with the construction and spatial arrangements regulations. In conclusion, it is important for the Final Proposal for a Household Law to point out that the necessary funds for the implementation of the Housing Management Act are secured in accordance with the established divisions of division 033 of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care in accordance with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2019-2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102264	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have a replica of respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102265	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Mazhar, I have a question regarding the deadlines of course. Do you think that 10 years after the staff can buy the housing unit as provided for by this bill is not too long, or would the purpose not be achieved with a shorter period of 5 or even 3 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102266	Thank you, dear fellow Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102267	Dear colleagues of MP Jeckov agree with you, so I must point out that with the law so far, there was no possibility that the staff could buy out the housing units, or they could only use them while they were in a position. This law enables the purchase of therefore and personnel apartments and, as you have said for 10 years, is only a condition of residence in the areas of law enforcement, and 5 years is the possibility of housing. So, after 5 years of housing, we will be able to apply for it to be an appropriate period, given that only, not only would they bring in personnel, but they would also be staying in these areas, or that there would be no abuse that after a year, two or three apartments would be bought out and then those areas would be abandoned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102268	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply, whether or not the rapporteur of the board will take the floor, no. I am opening a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MostA Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102269	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State, is before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Housing Care in an assisted area. The Republic of Croatia certainly needs a new Law on housing in the assisted area, assisted areas are rural areas affected by a high rate of emigration which, according to urban environments, is located beyond the borders of our Republic of Croatia. What characterizes assisted areas is low economic activity, and if we look at the age structure, it's a wave about third-age citizens. Furthermore, when we talk about assisted areas, we have available data from last year which took place under the House Loan Subsidisation Act and only 1.25% of requests come from the first and second group of development indices. The situation is also devastating in both the third and fourth groups from which 6,37% of the claims came for a loan to resolve housing opportunities. Supported areas are areas where there are fewer children, if there are fewer children, then there are other services less or there are not enough quality services or transport and more. Data speak of the number of completed schools, 6 of them in this school year and 117 schools are not enrolled any new students. With this condition, measures are necessary for the economic and demographic recovery of these areas, it is necessary to provide for measures that young families will retain in those areas, and with this purpose we propose to amend Article 37 who we have proposed in the first reading that has not been adopted. You yourself said that the purpose of this law is to return, stay and demographic recovery. Since economic recovery is actually necessary to ensure that people in the area of special state care or assisted areas are provided, we propose to reconsider in Article 37 percent of the amount of financial support, for construction material, and from the consumption of 25% raises to 80% of the value of construction material, and we have proposed the same as the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102270	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sonja Cikotic. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Loncar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102271	Thank you, Vice President. This Final Proposal for a Household Management Act in assisted areas and areas of special state care has regulated categories of users that can exercise the right to housing. The right and purpose of this law is to return, encourage, survive the population in.../incomprehensible/... areas, because.../incomprehensible/... are stressed in Article 2 of this final law. The tasks for implementation and procedure of the final solution shall fall within the competence of the Central State Office which must lay down specific conditions for users and their rights. In order to achieve the right to care, a natural person is required to submit his request to the State Office at the beginning of the calendar year with additional necessary documentation and all for the delivery of reports by state offices by county, which will, on the basis of the solutions issued, propose a list of those users who can, have the right to exercise their status of care in assisted areas and areas of special state care. Furthermore, the areas of m2 of the house or apartment as the holders of the solution are determined precisely as well as the members recorded through the settlement solution. As regards renting apartments, the user who signed the contract has the sole task of respecting the obligations of the contract itself, otherwise losing the right to rent and must bear all the damages incurred on his own cost. Furthermore, when it comes to the donation and purchase of housing units, time limits, reconstruction rights, the advantage of Croatian defenders, etc. where you point out in which way and condition someone can enter into a lease contract or buy an apartment or a house. In addition to these two Central Offices, there is the possibility of assigning building materials and building land to build and reconstruct residential areas in which users will also be able to unsecured for the resolution of housing. As regards personnel and emergency housing situations, the State Central Office may exceptionally provide accommodation in cases of natural disasters and others, if there is a special indication of the need for personnel, local administration units may also provide a housing unit and make it available for use by persons who are needed for business programmes, other activities of importance for the work of the unit of local self-government and the wider community. The envisaged measures under this Act are the sole intention of promoting settlement in assisted areas, and areas of special state concern, which can contribute to the creation of new jobs through economic operators, competitiveness, better conditions and quality of life, which will ultimately lead to a more balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and, more importantly, should be increased demographic recovery. In order to achieve this, more money is certainly needed to provide a significant number of families that will create an effective and operational system for normal life in assisted areas and areas of special public care. The effects expected by the application of this Law should be as soon as possible and should result in enviable results through the survival and return of the population. On something that I must warn, how, where and when, and to whom to submit requests when the state office connects with the Countys that have so far been unable to make it, because it is in jurisdiction, because jurisdiction has not allowed. I see and demand that amendments be tabled in the final proposal to address this problem for the next period. The HDZ Club will accept this Final Proposal for a Housekeeping Act in assisted areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102272	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lonchar. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102273	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here after the global topics, we return, we return to the sovereign national themes, after the stories of thousands of migrants, we return to the subject that speaks, therefore, of the Law which speaks of assisted areas, so, the Law which speaks of an empty space like, empty space of Banovina, Kordun, half-empty space of Gorski Kotar, half-empty islands, so before us is the proposal of the Law, i.e. the Final Proposal of the Law on Residential Care in Supported Areas. On behalf of the SDP Club in my first reading, I supported it, so we supported this Bill proposal, so we will support it in the second reading, and for a very simple reason, because we believe that this Law, that this Bill is correct, that it is good, offers better, higher, and even fairer solutions than it was in that previous Law. The Central Office for Reconstruction and Housing is clearly a floor, obviously from its draft, more perhaps through a set of circumstances than some continuous policy, remained unbroken in its capacities, and from this final proposal of the Law, it is evident that there is continuity in finding concrete constructive proposals related to the problem of housing care in assisted areas. The observations which could apply to this Act are, above all, principled and refer to a common policy of regional development, i.e. a policy with which this Law is only part, i.e. one of the tools. In Parliament's procedures, therefore, there are already a set of laws relating to regional policy, which is the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, the Law on assisted areas, the Law on Islands, and I think it would be more appropriate for these laws to be discussed together because only then could MPs concentrate, or focus on one of the most important issues of this country, which is the vision of the regional development of Croatia, which are the tools, which are the solutions that will seek to reduce the extremely large regional differences that year after year, instead of shrinking, they are deepening. But the government has clearly decided to go along a line of less resistance, so it offers us first these legislative proposals that are not controversial, but are focused only on a smaller segment of the overall policy of regional development, as is this Law, as is the development, as is the Law on islands, which is also under discussion, its Final Proposal, this week, will therefore be debated on Friday. However, when we discuss this, therefore, without the final proposal of the Law on mountainous mountainous areas, when we discuss this without a final proposal on assisted areas, then we can hardly get a complete picture of the vision of the future regional development policy represented by this government. So, once again, it would be more meaningful, more practical, more useful, if this Final Bill had been discussed together with these other laws relating to politics, to the overall policy of the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. The second principled remark that could be imposed on this legislative proposal was, in fact, the focus on solving housing problems stemmed from the consequences of the Homeland War and, that is, the areas occupied during the war. Since the war, enough time has passed, and this problem of housing should be solved for refugees and returnees, and focus should be on solutions that are in synergy with other measures in all areas of special state concern, regardless of their position in the course of the Homeland War, competitiveness, sustainability, better quality of life, economic growth, sustainable development. One of the objectives of this Act is the co-operation of the central government body with local self-government units in assisted areas, so that this Law is an effective tool in strengthening local sustainability and stopping demographic decline in areas of special state concern. It is evident that the Central Office for Reconstruction and Housing has established good communication with local authorities, and, in my view, this experience would be beneficial to other central state institutions, and I therefore hope that there is a certain horizontal link between these institutions to share these experiences. And in the end, I will repeat once again that the SDP Club will therefore support the final proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102274	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Matjana. Dear colleague Vesna Pusic is not present. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102275	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. So here, for the first time in 20 years, this matter gets a form of law and a proposed law on housing in assisted areas represents a significant simplification and legal improvement compared to what we have so far. We representatives from that area are particularly interested in its implementation and we will closely monitor the implementation of it. The proposal for a new Law on Housing in Supported Areas extends territorial jurisdiction from the current 185 to a total of 336 units of local self-government enabling housing to be managed according to privileged conditions. In the focus of the laws and accompanying acts are the specific categories of users and the most socially vulnerable groups of the population, as well as the professional and educational staff. The law also introduces the housing of victims of domestic violence throughout the country as well as the model of exceptional housing care in the case of natural disasters. Proposal for a housing law in assisted areas aimed at encouraging the return of remains and settlement of the population. In the first reading, MPs generally assessed positively. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS supported the legislative proposal in the first reading but we have proposed and certain, we hope constructive proposals. So one of these proposals was the initial housing plan, so for the sake of easier, faster and better quality resolution, we have proposed that the initial housing plan itself will indicate how many housing units or packages of construction material will be allocated to individual units of local self-government so that users who wish to submit a request for housing. So in some ways, to speed up the whole process and to solve administrative difficulties. Furthermore, we also talked about restrictions on the sale of property that someone has received by housing and bought, the proposal is to ban and sell 3 years, so that in fact, if there has already been a ban, let it be as short as possible, or in my case it may be unnecessary because if someone wants to sell it he will do it one way or another and we in some way encourage people to break the law because whoever decided to sell it will do it even after 3 or 5 years. Furthermore, the question of cancelling the lease contract due to non-inhabitation in a residential facility for more than 6 months. This problem has been highlighted because of possible abuses, however, we have received one logical explanation on the board that it will be taken into account, that it will therefore take into account the specificities of the assisted areas with all their specificities as such. Therefore, in order to define and address this issue, it is extremely important in the procedures where the loss of the right to care is prescribed to effectively determine and explain the reasons under which the lease agreement would be cancelled and this procedure must certainly not be carried out by arbitration or volunteering at the expense of the user. As for the humane dwellings that are very important for each municipality and city, we have suggested that it would be good to consider the possibility that the final decision on the allocation of humane dwellings should be decided by the representative body. And finally, what I really think is very constructive is that the process of establishing the right, so that applicants of the application or the requirement for housing that they should submit a belief of residence or residence for the last 15 years actually take into account the possibility of using the e-system. And finally, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this bill by considering it really good. However, what is certainly most important and as far as this law applies, it is an insurance of funds in the budget of a larger amount, if possible in a larger amount than it has been so far. Otherwise this good bill of law will remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102276	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to individual debates. My dear colleague Mira Bulj is gone. Dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102277	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing a law that is important and important to one significant number of our fellow citizens and given these late hours, I will try to be as brief as possible and as clear as possible. This law, in my opinion, really creates one assumption of promoting the return of remains and population settlement in assisted areas, which can only be realised through an effective operational system of measures and activities that can certainly contribute to the demographic and economic development of assisted areas in the future. Given the great disproportionateness in the development of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia to a large part of the territory located in the assisted area and since more than 90% of the municipalities and cities of my county are located in the area which we today consider to be demographic, economic and socialally weakened, I believe it is very important and necessary that we have a functional system that has a task of helping the very most socially vulnerable in these areas in which it is truly and most needed. I am pleased to see how this law includes all those necessary, socially endangered but also professional and educated personnel in their perhaps biggest step in life, and this is exactly the housing, through the rental or donation of state houses or apartments through the donation of materials or building land to build houses right through housing, which is one of the main preconditions of the remaining youth, persons of young families right in their cities and right in their municipalities. We have had situations that have waited 10 years for the resolution of requests, we have these examples today in my county, and even though there has been a better shifts in the past two years, I have been appealing to you State Secretary, to really speed up these deadlines as quickly as possible and what I would also like to point out is that once we have declared this law, access to the stronger formation of our fellow citizens about their opportunities and to provide them with all possible assistance when they are registered, we see that the interest is great if the number of needs is large and, in some ways, the realisation of them is in our interest to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102278	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic. Next debate, esteemed colleague Stipe Sapina, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102279	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. This law regulates the category of users who can exercise the right to housing, the way in which housing is provided, and the conditions for the exercise of the right to housing. The aim of this law is to encourage the return of remains, the settlement of the population in assisted areas. The housing law in assisted areas regulates the territorial jurisdiction of housing, housing models, conditions and procedures for regulating housing rights, the process of obtaining ownership by giving and selling housing units, management, real estate management and provision of special groups of residents, implementation of operational programmes of the conclusion strategy and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and inter-resorship cooperation and co-operation with units of local self-government. At the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 28 September 2018, a conclusion was reached which adopted the proposal of the House Care Act in assisted areas in the first reading and addressed to the second reading. The effects expected by law are encouraging the rest of the population in assisted areas which will have a positive impact on demographic... RH, normative regulation and definition of housing policy and housing of the most vulnerable groups in assisted areas and housing of target groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The difference between the proposal that was in the first reading and the final proposal was that 7 amendments to the Legislative Committee were accepted, 40 articles were completed in relation to the draft law in the first reading, 11 objections were not accepted to the articles of the draft law by the respected representative Darinko Dumbovic, another 6 remarks by HDZ, MOST and others, as well as 6 proposals. I am sorry that, I had one proposal, which was not adopted and it is a proposal to submit requests in units of local administration and self-government, in cities and municipalities, and then to municipalities across their housing commissions in the first degree to resolve the requirements. I think it is necessary to support the Final Proposal for a Law on Housing in Supported Areas because it promotes the return, stay and settlement of the population and such incentives in assisted areas, contributes to the demographic and economic development of these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102280	I thank my esteemed colleague, Shapini. Next debate, esteemed colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102281	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Law on housing in the assisted area, and when we know that the assisted area includes 336 units of local self-government, not 60% or 2/3 of Croatia, we would understand that this law is actually one of the crucial laws for the remaining young people, young families and preventing emigration from rural territory of Croatia and 2/3 of Croatia. But when we look at today a little bit here today, tonight's assembly, when we see how many MPs are present, how many clubs are active, everyone's mouth is full of young people, the remains of young people, but in this debate, we see that there's no big activity. Maybe it's because the law is late, but since we had a little break, I don't know what Parliamentarians could all get tired of. But finally, what does this law bring? I welcome the law as well as the new Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and the new Law on an assisted area, and you know how there is that old saying "How much money, how much music". So when we sum up this law, we say that with 100 million kuna we will provide housing, help all young families in 2/3 of Croatia with 100 million kuna. Under the new Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, there were 35 million kunas, in the new Law on aided area, the financial measures are foreseen at 85 million kuna. So when you sum it up, it's not like, 200 million kunas for 2/3 of Croatia, 2/3 of Croatia that emigrates the most because unlike urban areas, in rural areas of Croatia, assisted areas of Croatia other than eviction outside the borders, there is a process of urbanisation, a process that is little spoken in Croatia, in our areas, means the Maltas do not go by the population and in the larger environment which Split, which Zagreb... which Rijeka, which... So, we're twice threatened by the eviction process. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Within our own Republic of Croatia through the process of urbanisation and the process of eviction beyond borders. And now we're talking that with 100 million kunas, when we know what our state budget is, we're going to solve all the housing problems in the assisted area. And we have some other state processes, from the restructuring of the Uljanics, where billions of kunas of state guarantees are given, where we have different other, uh, exibitions in the state budget, where we see that we are getting whatever and which why, many elements that are not justified, and it's full of, I say, mouths in the RH of the process of emigrating, stopping, moving, and then the law that I will support is coming because every law that brings something new is positive, but we can't say that we're going to stop the car from going downhill because there's not going to be 10 km an hour anymore, which I say often in debates than 9.99, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102282	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic. Final word on behalf of the motionary State Secretary Mr. Nikola Mazhar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102283	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected parliamentary MPs, MPs, here, in short, I am most pleased and grateful for the constructive debate and for the suggestions. What I am pleased to see, therefore, is that everyone has recognized the importance of this Law and that in some ways they have given their support. I must point out that I support and agree with the parliamentary deputies for saying that finance is what is key and what is important. I would like to point out that this very government has also recognised the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing, and in the past two budgets has increased the limit of the Office significantly by more than 40 million kuna, and the limit has also increased by the following year. I must point out that 100 million kunas or a little more than 100 million kunas for housing does not only mean construction, but it is through the adaptation and rehabilitation of state-owned apartments. So, we're certain state property that we get back, given whether someone returns or dies, we're going to resuscitate somewhere between 10 and 30.000,00 kn, so, with a small amount of resources, we can rebuild a lot of state property and then give people a move in. I must point out that precisely because of the increase in the budget next year, we are expected to build more residential buildings than the Prince's vineyards and the White Manastir, all the way to Knin, across the Republic of Croatia. But if we take only for comparison in 2015, 147 materials were delivered for the reconstruction of family houses or the construction of family homes, and this year we will end up close to 400. So we can see that the increase in all housing segments, not only in construction, but in the supply of construction material, has increased by several hundred percent. What is important to highlight, and related, is for the position of Mosta or MP Cikotic regarding the increase in compensation. The increase will happen now. So, so far they could get 10 or 15,000,00 kn if they fit in, now it's going to be 25% of the net value of construction material or if it's 160.000,00 kn it's going to be 40.000,00 kn in cash. However, compensation is only one part of what families receive from the Republic of Croatia. When the supply of the construction material of the Republic of Croatia or the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care takes over both construction and construction permits, idea project, electricity connection and this cash. So there are a number of measures that these families will get. In addition to all of this, the new Law places that apartments located in the first category will pay 20% of the protected rent of 2,70 kn, which means 0.54 kn per m2 or transferred for a 50 m2 apartment will be 27,00 kn. Also for family homes located in the first and second category of assisted areas, monthly rent will be 1,00 kn and for all families located in public apartments or houses, and the social care centre's solution will receive the guaranteed minimum fee will amount to 1,00 kn as long as it lasts. So there is a whole set of social measures that, apart from this fee, allow people to come and live in these areas. What makes me personally Secretary of State happy on the one hand, therefore, increases all the activities of the Office in two and a half years, but also increases and demands. So we can see from the city of Vukovar who this year had 1018 requests for housing, including all other units of local self-government, that the increase in the number of requests shows one wish, first of all, for young families to want to stay in these areas and that regardless of all these other negative aspects that are seen, there is still the desire for people to stay in those areas, so here we have it for us to make it possible for them by this new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102284	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102285	Dear Secretary of State, I'm interested in one thing, regarding the Housing Fund, which is owned by the state. Are you reporting for energy efficiency measures, how much own resources have you invested state resources in the energy efficiency of the facilities, and how much have you withdrawn from the EU funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102286	Thank you. Secretary of State Mazhar's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102287	So, the number of properties owned by the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is currently being managed by around 17,000. Since we, in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, donate or give under privileged conditions in the sale of real estate. That number's changing on a daily basis. What is important to highlight, everywhere where the Republic of Croatia is a majority owner or in several residential buildings where it is minority, together with building managers we sign energy efficiency and I can say an example that only this year, 8 more residential buildings in the town of Vukovar have made energy efficiency, so by increasing the reserve, where together with other co-owners of the building we enter into reconstruction and that is what we will continue in the area of the entire Republic, and also here, together with the Ministry of Regional Development of the EU Funds and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, we will launch new activities related to the creation of energy efficiency preconditions in higher residential buildings where the Republic of Croatia is not the majority owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102288	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply to the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State of Central State for the restoration and housing of Mr. Nikola Mazhar and his associates, Branko Aljević Grgas, the chief secretary of the office and the head of the sector at the Central State Office, Mr. Mark Brajk, for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues with this have exhausted all the points of the agenda foreseen today, we continue work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a set of tax laws, so 9 points of the agenda. Good night and good night for the rest of the day. Session interrupted in 20.47 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102289	Final proposal of the House Care Act in assisted areas, second reading, P.Z. No. 411, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Representative Miro Bulj. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, the esteemed Nikola Mazhar, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. Here you go, Secretary of State. The first is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Please be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102290	... Honored parliamentary MPs, parliamentary representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the earlier Law on areas of special state care, the beneficiaries of the right to donate construction material are entitled to cash support depending on the model of construction for the family house's recovery model achieved monetary support of 10 thousand kuna and for the model of construction of a new family house, cash support of 15 thousand kuna regardless of the number of members of the family of the rights users and independent of the residential area of the family house, or the amount of donated building material whose construction is organised and financed by the beneficiary of the right. The determination of financial support according to the amount or value of the donated building material is more adequate and fair because it is in relation to the costs of installation of the donated material. In addition to the proposed principle of sounding, financial support is increasing by an average of 30% compared to the previous one. The proposed increase in the level of cash support at 80% would significantly reduce the number of beneficiaries of the right to care for the model of donation of construction material for which, in practice and in the areas covered by the implementation, there is a great interest and need for implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102291	Who's going on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club? Here you go, colleague Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102292	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I have tabled an amendment to ensure that in assisted areas, citizens get 80% of the price of construction material because it is very important to us in assisted areas that are the wave of rural areas where people emigrate to keep their youth there so that economic activity can be stimulated later. And once people leave certain spaces then we can no longer activate means economic activity, it's impossible to restart the economy so much, and it's 6 first-class, so no more, 6 schools are closed in an assisted area, 170 schools are not enrolled a new student, all because there's no meaning left in that area. People need to be provided housing in assisted areas because there are extremely large areas, in Slavonia of the agricultural area, and later if additional factories are to be opened, if people need to start certain economic activity where they will find people, where they will find young people who will work in these facilities, who will send children there means schools and kindergartens. We have a 7.4 measure, we build in settlements of up to 5,000 inhabitants of the waterway, sewerage, we build unclassified roads, we build playgrounds, we build kindergartens, we build for whom we build if there isn't any, if youth doesn't stay there. With what measures and with what incentives and with which support we will tomorrow encourage entrepreneurs to open the plants. Where, in assisted areas where there will be no young people? So we need to be the goal of keeping these people, and I think the budget item needs to be increased, that 80% is certainly not much. Because think of only 3% of the demand for, so 0.31% came up with a housing requirement, so through a co-financed loan model, 0.31%, there's no talking about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102293	Are you looking for a vote? ... Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the 2nd Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102294	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Since the amendment is identical to the previous one, the difference is only in percentage and instead of 80% is required to increase to 90%. For the same reasons, the amendment is not accepted and in addition to the financial support we are talking about, I would like to emphasise that this model of housing of the family of the users of the rights is also a free production of the project documentation, the supply of a set of construction materials, installations and sanitary equipment at the site of the facility, professional supervision of the installation of the donated material and ultimately a free connection to the low voltage network all at the expense of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102295	It's an obvious fellow Bull. Here you go. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102296	Dear secretary, secure the money for two-thirds of Croatia, which is empty. The mountainous mountainous areas are empty, we must provide young people with a minimum of 90% in the budget of funds and you will get that amendment to build and survive in these areas. And that's how it starts and employs because construction will be an increase in employment in these areas and this way when we co-finance... One percent of people's material will build houses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Believe me, Dalmatian Zagora is empty, 100,000 people have moved out in the last 10 years. Just look at the results from 2011 to 2016, so people go to third countries and not an old, older population, but young people and entire families who are hard to live in third countries. A few days ago, I was in Germany. Our people have a hard time living there. We have the most beautiful piece of land in the world. I don't believe that people from like, Slavonia, parliamentary representatives, representatives of the people, here, in my Cetitian province, people are moving out of my city, from Trill even more and more in percentage, increasingly empty, uh, schools are also from Drnis area. Here, I call on everyone from the 9th electoral, 10th electoral unit, from Like, Slavonia, from the Brdo Mountain Area, MPs, vote that young people can build houses, thus encouraging them to survive, co-financing with these 90% give them the opportunity to build their own house and survive in those areas. It is not just enough for the government to tour and make false promises every 4 years before some election, now the Euro Parliamentary, various laws, but we are fighting and we are legally allowing people to survive in this area. There's money you say, money secure [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's not enough to be a server of the Brussels Junker. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-14-0.u102297	Are you looking for a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Housekeeping Act in assisted areas, please vote. I find that most of the vote 101 ZA, 11 abstentions and 15 votes against, has been passed the Housekeeping Act in assisted areas.
