ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89582	we will now continue with the points that are on our agenda and are coming: - Final proposal of the Cyber Security Act for operators of key services and providers of digital services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 320 Let's not, please, throw ourselves out of the chair. There's 2.5 of you in the hall and you're still throwing yourself away. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Art. 172. in relation to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, in accordance with the Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Policy on National Security and the Defence Committee. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation, yes. Dear Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89583	Your Honor, Vice President. Ms. Representatives and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. In front of you is the Final Proposal of the Cybersecurity Act of Operators of Key Services and Digital Service Providers. This law in Croatia will transpose national legislation to the Directives on measures for a high common level of network and information systems from 2016, and its main objective is to introduce common minimum requirements for capacity building and planning information exchange, cooperation and common security requirements for entities providing or providing services that are essential for economic, social activities, and in particular for the functioning of the internal market. To that end, this directive, known as N from the directive of its English card for... The selected sectors are important for society and the economy, such as energy, transport, banking, infrastructure, the financial market health sector, water supply, its distribution, digital infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these sectors and digital services that must be covered by these minimum requirements have also been defined, the obligation to identify key services in defined sectors, as well as to determine the dependence of key services and information systems has been introduced. The types of entities covered by the NS Directive, and thus the obligation to apply this law, are divided into 2 groups, first operators providing key services to society and the national economy. So key service operators and others, digital service providers, of primary importance for the EU's single digital market, therefore, digital service providers. The development of obligations for the operator of key services is in the full responsibility of the Member States. As long as the obligations of the digital service provider are developed by the European Commission Implementing Directive, which is directly applicable to Member States, whose implementation is to this end provided by coordination bodies at national level. The law provides for the implementation of the regulatory process set out in this Directive for the purposes of the operator of key services. Therefore, the development of procedures and identification of key services and the necessary parameters, or criteria. For the purposes of digital service providers exclusively of those based in the Republic of Croatia providing services throughout the EU, for which they are not excluded as small or micro-enterprises, this law provides for a system of competent authorities and treats the requirements of such providers in the Republic of Croatia, or, where appropriate, coordination in case of incidents, which may include citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are beneficiaries of these digital services in the EU, based in a Member State. Equally weaving, the law defines the necessary competencies, the exercise of the mind and the relevant infringement provisions for breach of the law. In order to fully implement the NS Directive, it provides for the adoption of a sub-legislative act, i.e. a Regulation on cybersecurity measures, key services operators and digital service providers, which will more closely list measures to achieve a high level of cybersecurity of operators of key services and how to implement them, the criteria for determining incidents that have a significant impact on the provision of incidents that have a significant impact on the provision of key services and the content of notifications on incidents, the way in which these notifications are delivered and other issues that are relevant to the handling of such notifications. Therefore, the proposal for this Regulation has been prepared and, as soon as the law enters into force, it will be adopted and thus rounded up by the whole pact which this Directive imposes. Compared to the text of the draft law which was in the first reading and which was adopted here in the Croatian Parliament, in the final proposal of the law there were certain and largely new technical differences as a result of respecting the proposals and objections made by the parliamentary representatives, primarily to the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee, as well as the opinions of the body of the ministry and other bodies between the two readings. All these remarks have been properly introduced into the final draft of the law and we seek to improve this text of the law and the Government proposes that it be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89584	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89585	Thank you, Vice President. Here I know it's Friday afternoon, but it looks like the only HDZ club is concerned about national security. This law, otherwise this proposal for a law now in its final reading, has been harmonised for 3 years between the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States and the interest in this law does not seem to be quite proportionate to the importance of this law. But here won't be the first law to pass like this. When I first spoke about this law, I actually became aware that I was the name of the law and all the concepts that are mentioned in a certain section of the public are actually inconclusive because this whole law is actually full of various concepts concerning information and technical professions and, of course, it is clearer to those who deal with this profession. But in fact, the paradoxical fact about this law and which is very important for the highlighted is that all these concepts are actually part of our daily life and that many people, in fact, most people are not even aware. And this topic of cybersecurity that's a key topic of this law is actually much wider than this law. This law is, I'd like to say, just a piece of the puzzle on this subject. And that is why, despite the fact that there are four MPs in this House, I will say what I consider necessary on behalf of the HDZ Club and on the subject of cybersecurity and the final draft of the law. Speaking of this law, several globally important facts need to be cited. What is generally known and not particularly stressed, is that the information space and information environment is something in which we all participate and what is around us, but there is also one important moment, which is that individuals of a particular interest group actually want to abuse this space and want to control it. What's common today, so in the future it's going to become so let's say for one level or two, more dramatic. What we know is that it's already being attacked on the Internet and it's going to be attacked even more, everything that's considered to be worth some side of the conflict or a particular interest group. It's all literally, everything, from web pages to social networking services to communication and information infrastructure, so everything that's part of the Internet environment. What is conventional warfare in one sense will become and has already become, in the future, the disenfranchisement of information systems and it becomes an inescapable process of any conflict or war. Maybe it's less known information that when NATO was in '99. Mr. started his military operation in Serbia, that the urgently pro-Serb-oriented hackers attacked the NATO and US defence websites. Is that why I'm saying this? So anyone who thinks that the turbulence in the world caused by the development of the Internet will, in my personal opinion, be very wrong and in fact he's mistaken. On the contrary, and so does this law. All shows, therefore, that the system will exist increasingly complex, increasingly complex, and together with this growth and innovation without permission because proportionally of course, with the growth of legal components, growth and illegal tools and systems. And when I say the future, then I don't mean the next 50 years, but 5 or 10 years. destructive innovations, we should be aware of that, and this is what world authorities who deal with cybersecurity say. Of course, as people, we are very flexible and that we will adapt to this as we have adapted to every kind of industrial revolution, but the real question is what is the positive ratio to negative. And here is the important role of states, tools and levers that the state uses. So I will not repeat what the objective of this law is, because we have already heard this in the first reading, so a high common level of cybersecurity between Member States, but it does not exclude that each Member State individually has its own security system and that it participates in the common security system because it is also a single digital market, a digital single market, one of the most important objectives of the European Commission and the digital economy and, in general, the EU in all plans and programmes. So as anti-terrorist action depends on the exchange of information and military cooperation between countries, this cooperation and support is very much true in both the virtual world and this information or cyberspace. And we are aware that countries cannot function on their own here, it is worth even technologically more modern and so to say richer countries, let alone for Croatia, which still shares the money it invests in this area significantly less than some countries. I would like to remind you that last October, the European Council proposed adopting this very common approach to cybersecurity, which was the continuation of that reform package proposed by the European Commission in September last year. And these are three important things, so the joint European Cyber Security and Reform Agency, as well as the Agency, is becoming more efficient. The introduction of certification at European Commission level in terms of cybersecurity and in terms of the tools to be used and as quickly as possible the implementation of this Directive, which is actually implemented now by this law. What is so important is to point out that the bodies dealing with this topic in the European Commission, i.e. already in the European Union are forecasting some dramatic scenarios, and in fact, they are realistically saying that much more needs to be regulated and repaired in order for those bodies dealing with this topic to actually deal with all threats in the future. What is also important to note and which concerns the EU bodies involved. As opposed to military or terrorist training camps for terrorists who are relatively easy to detect as satellites and drones exist today, training camps so-called. Cybernetic specialists aren't easy to detect at all. Moreover, they can be located anywhere, in the library, in the antiques, in a regular Internet cafe and there is so-called. Cybernetic jihad the recruitment of prospective young engineers or students and this is actually a growing problem and it happens without us being realistically aware of it. Why? Well, because it's not even in conventional electronic media, and it's something that hasn't actually reached all of us yet, and intelligence sources say that it's just the easiest thing to do to involve someone in the way that they're, so there's some kind of connection. Three of the strongest motives are the first ideologicality, it's a common known motive, other money. But one worrying motive is blackmail. And of course there are also countries that are sponsors of cyberterrorism and co-finance attacks and are actually hard to trace. And what is a tendency around the world and especially in the EU to change military and general security policies and of course tools used for increasing threats to cybersecurity. But what's going to open up to us as a problem here is this law is really a positive and big step ahead. However, how will the Ministry of Interior of the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior pay several top-notch informers in the cybersecurity sector when, for example, the coefficient for the job is somewhere in the middle of medium-level expertise with someone who works in HEP. I mean young, informed and educated and high-level IT personnel, of course, will go to work somewhere for double or triple the salary and that's the thing that's neither being solved by this law nor meant to be solved by this law. In my personal opinion, however, this will, in the future work of those bodies and institutions that are expected to implement this law and sublegal acts on this subject, actually become a growing problem. The U.S. has a very good model in this case, of course, and it all depends on money, but so far it's one of the biggest steps in this regard that hackers and government organisations have been cooperating on the contract for several years. So you sign the contract and the fee at least in the cybersecurity sphere, so we understand each other. And now, let's say, the Agency for the Development of New Technologies, phonetic, Croatian-based DARPA and the National Security Agency, so-called. For many years, the NSA has been cooperating precisely in a way that young perspective individuals fish and use them for various purposes that clearly define the contract and then they get a fee. And as part of such a programme, the American agency has contracted with a few individuals, hackers, who would not even cooperate in madness with the state, let alone work for the state. In this way, they actually took advantage of them and the boys improved US national security and the success of the programme and such programmes showed that it was a positive model likely to be considered in the EU in due time. And go back to Croatia. I have already pointed out in my first reading of this law that it is indeed positive and indeed the strongest co-operation by Member States in the area of cybersecurity, which is one of the smaller segments of national security. And now, of course, it is expected that each country has certain capacities and contributes to common capacities. I have raised one concern here, but what is also important to emphasise, Croatia as well as other countries, this law is fully regulated by the competent authorities for cybersecurity and it is important that these authorities have identical functionality. This is very important because there cannot be a major deviation from these competent authorities if they all participate together in a common cybersecurity strategy. What should be pointed out, therefore, is a certain legitimate concern that a deficit of excellent IT personnel will occur within our institutions. In fact, that deficit already exists, and it will appear in those bodies that are expected to implement this law. It is therefore necessary to constantly consider possible models, including this American who I mentioned, public private cooperation, cooperation with the academic community, the funds of European funds that are provided for by this law, the use of two funds and, of course, continuous professional training. Because as we know information communication technologies are literally progressing from month to month, and they need to be constantly reached. Here are these wishes and aspirations for a better implementation of this law by the HDZ Club of course supports this law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89586	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be colleagues of Hrvoje Zekanovic, gone, losing his right to speak. And I'm finalizing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89587	Final Proposal for a Cybersecurity Act for operators of key services and providers of digital services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 320. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Cybersecurity Act of the operator of key services and digital service providers. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 95 votes for and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Cybersecurity Act of Operators of Key Services and Digital Service Providers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89588	We move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 351 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Mario Šilek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Law on Biogrodives for Transport was adopted in 2009 and since then it has been amended and amended four times, and lastly 2014, in addition to the essential additions that introduced the promotion of biofuel production in 2010, other changes have been to improve the implementation and control of the law. The amendments to the laws now proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are primarily conditioned by the amendments to European legislation concerning biofuel production, in nature, the amendments to the two directives, the quality directive on petrol and diesel fuels and the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources of energy. In accordance with European procedures, these amendments were implemented through the adoption of a new directive on indirect application of land use. This Directive was adopted in 2015 and for its implementation, the countries received a deadline of 10 September 2017. The provisions of the Directive have been transposed into the Air Protection Act and remains to be incorporated into the Biofuels Act. The laws on biofuels for transport, the production, trade and storage of biofuels and other renewable fuels, the use of biofuels in transport, the adoption of programmes and plans to promote the production and use of biofuels on transport, the authority and the responsibility for determining and implementing the policy to promote the production and use of biofuels in transport, and the measures to encourage the production and use of biofuels in transport. The law introduces a new concept of new concepts and definitions related to the use of land and raw materials for the production of biofuels, which includes a 7% limit on the use of conventional biofuels, i.e. biofuels of the first species. Biofuels of the first generation are obtained from olives, sugarcane and other sugar crops, cereals, and other cultures rich in starch and are grown on surfaces, which could be used for the purposes of the food or feed market. In order to avoid indirect change in the use of land used for food production, it was necessary to introduce a limit to the maximum quantities of conventional biofuels placed on the market. Amendments and additions to the law are designed to set up a functional biofuel market and aim to establish an offer and demand including the continuation of the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia and the market mechanisms. Therefore, the model for the penalization of biofuels on the markets, which, in addition to fees, will be changed because of the non-fuelling of the existing biofuels, will pay an additional fee if they have not reduced greenhouse gas emissions. This measure should help to establish a system for ensuring Croatia's 10% renewable energy target in transport by 2020, which each EU Member State is obliged to meet, in order to ensure that the penalisation measures are effective and market-efficient, well-measured cost of non-compliance with the targets, seen through the closed cycle of life-cycle of fuel, is aimed at driving demand to local producers, as it reduces greenhouse gas emissions in raw materials and produced fuel distribution. Given that the 10% target has been set with built-in restrictions on the production of first-generation biofuels, the minimum share of advanced biofuels present on the market, the emphasis is on the use of electricity in transport. It should be noted that all sublaws, i.e. implementing acts, are prepared and these amendments and additions of laws are expected to ensure that the objectives set by 2020 are achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89590	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89591	Thank you for ending one interesting topic, which is renewable energy sources, in this case biofuels. You say that this is an EU directive, we have listened to the EU directive, only of these EU directives, we have brought it all together, but only fuel is more expensive in the Republic of Croatia, gasoline than in other countries. Interesting thing is, you said you needed to control the agricultural surfaces, so you wouldn't now from once... They are certainly empty, weeds, better to be, mass, planted for biofuels, than to grow ambrosia and pests, which are primarily by the ministries and, of course, in our fields, due to the lack of ministry and government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are directives, as far as this is possible and so far as the directive is concerned, we need to know that out of the 30 billion kn, which we have paid in the EU funds, so far Croatia has only returned 900 million kn. Therefore, good wishes without any kind of verified act. The only thing we will have more expensive fuel than in other EU countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89592	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj, here's an answer to your question, what this law rightly brings on the subject is next. So the way to limit the use of agricultural land for the conversion from agricultural production to biofuels is the following, so only 7% of first-generation biofuels can be used means up to a 7% share. So that's what we wanted to prevent from... agricultural land because of certain things, as has already happened in Europe, is being transferred to biofuel production, but this only refers to first-class biofuels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This encourages our entrepreneurs to go into production processes for other and third-generation fuels. The other thing is, what else does this law actually make? It makes it concrete that for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, even though it was an obligation before, it will charge the fees to continue biofuels on the market, so we expect a cumulative effect between 150 and 250 million kn per year.../The speaker is not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89594	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Totgergelia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89595	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's one brief review, given that the 2015 directive was already to be applied in September 2017. A lot of what is here in the law and what is the subject of this whole text of the directive must also be regulated by certain regulations or regulations. So I'm just wondering what time you're expecting these regulations and regulations to be passed, or what stage it's made at, is that over? 'Cause we're a lot late and it'd be convenient if we actually started using it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89596	The answer to the respected Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, so here's what I said and in my explanation, so most of the sublegal acts have been prepared, we expect and we're sure of their adoption within the prescribed legal deadlines, and that could mean up to 60 days from the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89598	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate and we have a club of MPs and that's the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Totgergeli will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89599	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the Biofuels Act for transport, which is, in fact, changes and additions to the law, and we're actually continuing to talk about how to reduce greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, or how much of it is the share that comes with these greenhouse gases. If we look into the EU, then traffic spends approximately 30% of energy and generates about 25% of all greenhouse gases of which about 70% is waste on road traffic. In our past years, somehow transport-related energy consumption has only fallen in rail transport while in all other modes of traffic, so road, sea, river, especially air traffic has actually been growing all the time. Well, I think that's how it is, although I don't have the data for the past year that it was like that last year because the tourist season that was very good certainly also made the consumption of energy in transport, especially on the road increased last year. So we see that actually one significant part of the creation of greenhouse gases is just coming from traffic, and when we look at these changes and additions to the laws that you've proposed here, then somehow it's all going in the direction that the amount of these greenhouse gases actually decreases. Now, if we look at what was in the law so far, then we had that first generation of biofuels, so the fuels that were actually made out of cereals, of those plants that have a lot of sugar, so all that could be used in the diet, and it's kind of good that for the total quota prescribed for biofuels in the total amount of fuel used for transport to reduce that quantity because it was practically possible to use all of those 10% that was prescribed right now with the biofuels of that first generation. Now it's going to be 7%, but it doesn't mean that those 7% have to be achieved on first-generation biofuels right now, but it's a provision that's maximum and that we can't exceed. And we're still left with the total energy that we need to have 10% of the total amount of fuel we use from renewable sources, so whether it was fuel, whether it was electricity from renewables or something else. Here with this bill of law, it goes in two directions. On the one hand, the potential of biofuel production is increased but compensation is also determined for those who fail to meet the targets set for greenhouse gas emissions in the life span per unit of fossil fuel energy. So now a plan has been made for the following fuels so that the amount that needs to be achieved has increased. This amount is, in fact, related to the reference year, in addition to 2010, so how much we are in traffic, which is as much fuel as used in transport, how many greenhouse gas emissions and 2010 are now required that those who put fuel on the market, so that they actually put fuel on the market that will have fewer greenhouse gases per unit, by the same energy unit for that amount of fossil fuel. In order to do this at all, they need to adjust the fuel and mix more biofuels into the fuel because it is known that it is biofuels in its structure as it is, creating much less greenhouse gases than the fuels we've come to, i.e.. to fossil fuels. This is one part of the incentive through compensation if they do not make that reduction compared to 2010 so they pay certain penalties and are in their interest to reduce it. In order to reduce that, they actually need to install as much biofuel as possible into their fuel, which they place on the market. And in this way, it is actually an incentive to do what we haven't experienced, which is to increase the production of biofuels in Croatia, i.e. to invest as much money in development as possible, to move from that first generation of biofuels to the second generation, and perhaps the third generation, and then to fit in to not spend the land that we can use for food, to produce biofuels, but to be waste from biomass, etc. as already defined by that second and third generation, where even the algae in production were mentioned was diesel. As regards public transport, a commitment is introduced, to all public transport services and railways, to use exclusively, to use for their own purposes exclusively renewable el. Energy and this measure will certainly further encourage and bring savings throughout the process of transport, and the coefficients with which these accounts are now, in fact, give us the opportunity to get as close as possible to that 10% quota as we've been defined for the end of 2020. encourage the reduction of fuel consumption, for example in cities themselves, major problems create traffic jams. So one part of the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions can be solved by working on more intelligent urban transport or using some alternative means of transport. As far as national programmes are concerned, we have defined some 10 measures that are also being implemented and other than these amendments and the addition of the law, as you have already said, State Secretary, there is also a need to adopt a regulation on specific environmental compensation for the production of biofuels on the market as well as two regulations. One is the Regulation on the method and conditions of application of the sustainability requirement in the production and use of biofuels and another is the Regulation on measures to encourage the use of biofuels in transport. If these rules and regulations are already in place, then the practical adoption of this law can be brought closer to the implementation of the provisions of the 2015 directive. and also enable all those who have prepared for the production of biofuels, to create conditions so that they can actually make distributors on our market, that biofuels that can produce and sell, that is, make distributors really put on the market and part of the biofuels, that is, mix it with that fuel that they are now selling anyway. The HDZ Club, of course, will support this law and I think this is a very good law, i.e. that there are well-defined measures and that after that, what we adopt and when we really live in application will also receive economic positive results based on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89600	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will see each other again Monday, so I stress 2.7 at 9.30 p.m. on Monday and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Accession to Trade between the EU and its Member States, on the one hand, and Colombia and Peru on the other, in order to take into account the accession of Ecuador, second reading, P.Z. No. 349. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-29-0.u89601	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 351, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for Transport and Others will be adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 91 for, 5 abstentions and 1 vote against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
