ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96911	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and counsellors. It is before you in the first reading of the Bill on Librarys and Library Activity that I would take some time to explain the basic intentions and objectives of adopting this law. I will remind you, the current law dates back to 1997 and from that time in Europe, but also at global level, a number of documents relating to the library community and to the work of the legislator, which highlight the important role of libraries in the democratisation of society and the development of knowledge society, and that is certainly one reason, as well as compliance with the numerous recommendations made by the Councils of Europe and other international documents intended for the library profession for which we have initiated the amendment of the law. In addition, as you know, earlier this year we were in the Assembly with the Law on Museums and the Law on Archives, this is actually the third law that we are rounding up the revision of legislation in these three activities and it is very important for us to lay a good foundation for their future development, especially in the context of a digitalisation project that the Ministry of Culture has started over a few weeks ago during the defence of these two laws here and spoke. What is regulated by the law applies roughly in a broader sense to the basic principles of the provision of library services and library activities on the conditions of use of library services and services, inter-book credit, I think that much more quality defines the status of library building which is also cultural good, protection and construction, digitisation and revision and write-off. In the opening part of the law, we have tried to describe in more detail the Croatian library system, very briefly, the most important part of this system is actually a national and university library that we want to give this law even clearer powers in, if I can thus say professional supervision or the setting of professional standards for a complete library system that actually consists of 4 relatively distinctive units, so sub-system of national libraries operating in cities, municipalities etc., sub-system of school libraries as important segments in each school, national library system in science and higher education, which makes up 7 university library systems in Dubrovnik, Pula, Zadar, Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb, and where, in fact, it may be more common, in this part of the system is actually the most inconsistencies and very different standards. And sub-systems of special or professional libraries, these are those that collect structures from certain scientific disciplines or certain areas of human knowledge, and are established closely with the operation of individual institutions. The adoption of this new law will newly regulate the area of library activity in line with new trends in library and information and communication activities, as well as trends in new technologies used and made up an important part of the library system. It also refers to information and digitisation. A digital library is defined in particular, services such as digitalization of digital matrix collection, the protection of heritage with digital environments that have not been covered by the applicable law so far, because at the time of its creation, such technology and capabilities did not exist or existed at the very beginning of development. Also provisions on free access to information and public access to the network, protection of privacy and respect for copyright and related rights, digitisation of the digital library, inter-booking loan, mandatory copy of electronic publications, and on the continued professional improvement of the provisions are necessary in an appropriate manner to regulate which have not been arranged so far and which we foresee to edit this new bill. In addition, we think that, after the adoption of this law, the strategic planning will be fully accessible, and with this in connection with the financing of the development of libraries and library activities, since this law, as well as the two previous ones, which I spoke about earlier, provides for the adoption of a national plan for the development of libraries and library activities to be adopted as a basic strategic document by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this way we will actually allow this whole system, which is very fragmentedly treated and financed on one hand through the system of science and education, on the other hand through the system of culture, to be unitedly set certain strategic goals which could then be adequately financed. After that, I have to mention that we are sorting out the question of cultural goods for the book and other printed structures where, in fact, according to the letter of the law, everything that occurred before 1850 will be, immediately considered a cultural good. And we have also introduced a similar provision as in the Museum Law that this part of the register becomes, in fact, a library catalogue, becoming an integral part of the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia so that in fact this system of protection of cultural heritage relating to the written word is much better regulated and standardised. Similarly, the current law did not cover all legal persons, i.e. all legal forms of carrying out library activities, so that the library could only be established as an institution. We already have in Croatia cases that some associations have their own library and as simple as other areas, we do not feel that there is a need for this law to limit the possibility of setting up a library as any form of legal person by making the law explicit says that public libraries, therefore school, folk, university all those who are founded by a body of public authority or legal person owned by a majority of the Republic of Croatia or by some body of public authority, so colleges, schools, etc., the law of explicit says that they are founded as public institutions. I note this because there have also been some questions on committees, because of some issues raised by the Croatian Librarian Society and about how they pointed out the privatisation of libraries, so this is very clear and from this place I reject, it is not in the bill. So on the contrary, the bill stipulates that all public libraries are established as public institutions but we see no reason to disable, for example, public libraries. associations that may be for years, we know in Croatia some associations such as the Croatian Mother or the Society of Librarians who have been engaged in publishing for more than 100 years, if they wanted to set up a library where they would allow the public to use library services and, for example, for their publications, such a library when established by the association would be a person of private law rather than public law. In addition, the content of library activities covering the digitisation of library buildings and the organisation of a line of library services shall be arranged, the establishment, establishment and management of public libraries as institutions, the bodies of the public library shall be prescribed, so the director, the board of directors, the expert council and the conditions for their appointment. As I was saying at the outset, we propose extending the scope of the work of the national library and its tasks especially in this part of the systematization and standardisation of the structure and standards for libraries. For the first time in this law we are also editing the work of the Croatian Library for the Blind as a central public institution of interest for the Republic of Croatia. It is now being financed regularly from the Ministry of Culture system. As such, however, it is now specifically mentioned in the law. It is also with this law that a complete collection of Croats, so we declare the National Library Building Collection a cultural good, which I think is very important to keep this valuable fund in the right way. And the catalogues of this library building are part of the register of cultural goods. It is also prescribed that founders are obliged to provide funds for the work of libraries, the purchase of buildings and the means for continuous professional training. I particularly stress here the issue of building procurement because unfortunately many cities and especially fewer municipalities, but we also have this problem in the education and science system, pay is paid, costs are paid, but no necessary funding is provided for the purchase of the building. The library system of the Republic of Croatia and the parent activity are regulated, the obligation of the national plan is prescribed, which I have initially explained and is defined in a different way by the composition of the library council. As I said, given that there were questions on the committees about some of the Croatian Librarian Society's remarks that were addressed to parliamentary representatives, I will use a little more time to clarify some of these issues so that we would not, I believe later have to enter some further discussions. So, first of all, these questions are addressed to the Croatian Parliament, we have already mentioned them on the board. First of all, there was indeed one large number of remarks, more than 2000, of which one major part of the remarks refers to observations, 71 of the remarks of the Croatian Library Society, which they then referred through the network of their members to public consultation. I also said in their annual assembly yesterday that I welcome it, and I think we all need to welcome such engagement, and in this way it shows how important a legal proposal is. After these remarks, we held two meetings with representatives of the Croatian Library Society and with representatives of the parent services of libraries and most of the remarks we could appreciate, so of 71 remarks, 30 and a few we did not appreciate, 40 we did not. There have also been 26 comments from the National and University Library, 25 comments have been noted so that we come to the first reading with one text that has largely respected the comments we received through public debate, by saying that we will actually sit once again with the library profession and see that there are possible ambiguities to the second reading of the hearing. So, very briefly, the tax issues that we have also answered on the Committee on Culture, but I think it's important to clarify here as well. This law does not provide for the privatisation of public libraries, it does not write or predict any commercial provision of library services, on the contrary. So, I repeat, the law stipulates that a complete system of public libraries is still established as public institutions, therefore, national, school, university, university and all others, and if a person of private law, then some association, some foundation or some commercial society, for example. Pliva, which has its own institute, which has an extremely rich library, wants to open it to the public, we do not see a reason why we would limit such individuals' private rights in what legal form they want to choose to carry out this activity. So the public system remains completely within the system of public institutions and is prescribed very clear management rules, and those others who want for some reason, if at all, to set up a library, there is no limit to legal form, but those others will assess what legal form is actually their most suitable. This is the part about public and private. The law continues to maintain the division of, until now, the law has been talking about independent libraries and libraries in the composition, but the law dates before we join the EU, and you know for a fact that all laws come here, that such a nomenclature is no longer applicable in today's laws. The next question asked was the question of removing the standards of the profession reached regarding the appointment of the director. So please take a look at the bill. It makes it very clear that the director of the public library can become a person who has the meaning of this Bologna nomenclature of higher education and who has acquired the conditions for library calling. Why can't we write in the law that he's a graduate librarian? Because in Croatia, we have 3 cathedrals that teach librarians and each department issues diplomas with a different name. One university schools libraries, other librarians, third information sciences in the field of literature. I usually have all these examples of diplomas, informationology, library direction. So there's no way we can keep the term librarian, simply because today's diplomas don't have that name. But by regulation we will include all those terms that exist now and this part is in line with the Ministry of Science, the only way we can by law verify the outcomes of learning or competences that students today acquire that five-year education. This applies equally to the conditions for directors and the conditions for librarians. Also, as regards the provision in a law where we say extremely, it is exceptional that a person who has a legally prescribed profession, therefore who is a librarian, and here I am thinking first of all about smaller environments, can be appointed director of a person who has adequate preparation and experience in culture or education. We can't get into a situation where we may have two or three employees in the library, for some reason none of them want to report to the principal, that we have to close the library by law because there is no librarian who was also the principal. So the law very clearly sets the criteria. The director must be a librarian, especially if such a person does not appear, at least this House knows what the situation is in Croatia, what demographic movements are, unfortunately, this Government is doing a lot of work to change such trends, but it would be terrible to bring ourselves into a situation that because some library doesn't meet the condition and meets that it has a structure, that it has professionals, but it can't simply find a person who wants to be a director, which is a profession, that we close that library and then make it impossible for citizens to access the library service. We are, I believe, when you read the bill well that this is completely clear. I need it further highlighted, but of course if there are any questions we will further clarify in the debate. Afterwards, one of the remarks was related to the library council to depose the professional advisory body within the Ministry of Culture for the implementation or supervision of the Law on Archives, Librarys and Museums, the Croatian Library Council, the Croatian Museum Council and the Croatian Archive Council were established. In fact, for the first time in the law, we have introduced that in the library council they can only be experts in the field of library, science and education. So far, the case has even been that they have been sitting in the council and civil servants, either from the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Science. We don't think that was good, and you'll see that when you read the bill. After that, another question was asked about the Committee, which is whether or not school libraries must be established. So it's an explicit regulation of the Education Act. So, it's... and now it's a rule in the Republic of Croatia that every school has to have a library, it's governed by the laws that are in the education system and no intensity is to close libraries in schools, nor can it be read from this bill. This bill of law in the part where it speaks, speaks of the whole vertical. School institutions, higher schools and public scientific institutes are obliged to establish a library in the form of a special contract with which another public library provides library services necessary to carry out its teaching and scientific activities. That's exactly what we now have in the Republic of Croatia. In the city of Osijek, the library has been called city and university for years. They gave the founding act to one library the authority to be both city and university. Is that a good thing to talk about in person? I believe from the position of the Ministry of Culture that it is not good and that it should make an effort to be in Osijek a folk library of the city as a parent and that the university has its own library. In Pula, then, the scientific library became a university. The University of Rijeka has a very well-established university library that covers all universities. In Zagreb we have a National and University Library which performs the function of a university library, and then by each university we have a separate library because it is such a tradition. So we have in this system of higher education a completely colorful situation and we actually resisted this article. So either the basics within the legal person library, and I think that depending on the size and structure of the university at all should be seen whether there will be one central library which is logical for a smaller and new university or retaining the tradition of libraries by colleges, which is, for example, a specific culmination of the Zagreb University and is exclusively related to this article. So I want to introduce that there is no thought or conversation or discussion that in this primary and secondary education where standards and now regulations of the Ministry of Science and Education would change anything. And finally, another question that I think is very important to mention, which was also highlighted in the remarks that we talked about on the Committee on Culture, which was a mandatory issue. At this point, the Law provides for 9 mandatory copies which, in fact, in only two or three places in the Republic of Croatia, can be found to be stored in an appropriate manner. The mandatory copy includes everything. So everything he's got... , so books and magazines and daily period to daily papers, to what are called kits, means dolls that have a small brochure, postcards, posters, posters, so everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know what spatial resources are and what conditions it is kept in the Republic of Croatia. We kept in the Law the obligation of the right mandatory copy, so 3 copies + deposit copies and we said that we would use the rulebook, and already there are outlines in which direction we would go, to arrange how to proceed with the mandatory copy. What I think will be the most rational solution for such libraries to have the right to a mandatory copy, but then, depending on their collections and needs, they can say this in a mandatory instance, and we don't need this. What we need to know, unfortunately because of insufficient resources in the system of science, is a number of libraries that receive a mandatory copy throughout all these years have been completely left without the means to buy a book building and actually a mandatory specimen that should not be out at all and which does not serve to be a regular library builder of substituting for the purchase of a library building and is used to fill in the regular library fund of these libraries. I am going back to what I said at the beginning, the national programme for the development of library activities must address these problems and simply set the standard, that we must, therefore, propose what is written in this draft law, to pay, expenses, etc. the purchase of books must be one of the central obligations of the founders. So, the national programme for the development of library activities, it must actually set standards in this system, which some of these practices, which we are unfortunately used to, but which are not a good suspension. So much intro. I will, of course, answer all the questions. What I would like in this debate is that we are guided by what we have proposed in the text of the law, because I think that some of the comments that have come to us and who have come to this High House cannot be found in the very text of the law, but of course we will answer all possible questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96912	I thank the minister. Before the replica, my colleague Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96913	Thank you, Your Honor. I would really ask you to return the dignity to this Croatian Parliament, which is entirely your chairmanship of the sub-government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the representatives of Club Most, the government of the Republic of Croatia, is not responding at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96914	Comrade Thunderbolt, I beg you, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96915	I would like to warn you and ask you, along with all the haste that we have given the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not answer any parliamentary questions and violates the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96916	Comrade Grmoy, please sit down. I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96917	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96918	Because you're breaking the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96919	So we could warn you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96920	You can warn me... which you have every day, for five minutes. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96921	What are you gonna do about it? I'm going to give you these questions. What are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96922	You don't have to give these questions to me, pal, because we are, don't choose to give it to the Secretary of Parliament. I'm warning you, because he broke the Rules of Procedure, this isn't meant to be... I told you, on the current morning, here in front of everyone, you can check it out, that we sent a rush to the government. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Ask the government, I can send an ambulance. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I sent an ambulance, which you should do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What more do you want? How am I supposed to ask the government to respond? We can't talk like this... You have a five-minute hearing. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Grmoy, don't perform plays, we have the procedure we're working on, you have 5 minutes of free debate, in which you can say whatever you want and I'm asking you to stick to it... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I never get the right to speak when it's in accordance with the rules, but this has nothing to do with the rules. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, I reacted and sent an inquiry to the government and asked... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's go now, comrade Bull, don't yell from the bench, let's go to the replicas now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96923	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, therefore, on the board of your secretary of state, I asked if you had reached a high agreement with the Croatian Librarian Society and he replied that there was almost unanimous agreement, that you had observed all their remarks. I was skeptical of that answer, so I was restrained, but I got from them a lot of e-mails and I heard from the phone that no agreement was reached at all, i.e.. There has been an agreement on small things, around the key ones it is not, so what you said is not true, but it would ask you in the replica, why you are breaking up the existing functional system of the information sample, in which examples will lose regional university libraries in the Republic of Croatia and Mostar, and halve no. a book that will be made available to the local academic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96924	Thank you. Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96925	Dear Mr. Representative, thank you for this question, I'm sorry you interfered and disobeyed my explanation, but I saw that you didn't actually listen to anything I said. I finished my opening presentation by just explaining that actually mandatory copies have replaced the procurement system. And he can't, and a mandatory copy of what he's defined can't replace a library fund, which he can borrow. The mandatory sample must not be borrowed. So, exactly your exposure ended with this, that this model simply didn't do well and clearly said, that all the libraries that want to continue to get the books to get them, but you won't have to... all which is an integral part of the mandatory specimen and which they do not need. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96926	Let's move on. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96927	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Minister. Are you aware that this proposed Library Act of yours has made a law that I could say as a parliamentary representative that is one of the worst and perhaps the worst in this parliamentary term? In fact, no draft law has caused so many objections over 1840 p.m. observations in the public consultation report, over 2,500 remarks, which you said, here from the pay phone, that you accepted well. No, there's even evidence that you've written, and that you accept certain remarks, for example about the selection of the director and their terms, where you accept the remarks, and then, in the bill, you don't accept them. It's a scam, so you tricked the participants in the public hearing, in the election... [[Intruder: It's a scam.]] You definitely did not accept the comments on the page. 25.../Speaker disabled./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96928	Comrade Podolnjak, thank you. Time's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96929	Thank you for this comment, we certainly didn't accept anyone, I initially said hello, and I think we all have to be satisfied if some associations are engaged and a large number of remarks show their attitude. When we systematized all these remarks it was 71 remarks of the Croatian Librarian Society which they multiplied through their members and that is good and it is democratic. In my opening statement, I said that 3 Zagreb universities for this particular question were asked to issue 3 diplomas with different titles. We'll listen like every time between the first and second reading, if you can make a suggestion so that one name, we and the Ministry of Science didn't know that, could include three diplomas of different names, please give us a concrete proposal. I'm sure as well as all my government colleagues will listen carefully to all the good remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96930	Thank you. Dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96931	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, it is truly amazing that you, too, with your legislative proposal, continue a new practice that we have witnessed yesterday in the debate of the Law on Protection of Work to be consulted, without consulting the profession, and this has also resulted in those 2600 remarks that came from the library profession which are still dissatisfied with the proposal that we have received. You said that yesterday in their assembly you explained a lot and accepted, I received this morning after that assembly five pages of A4 formats of densely typed remarks which believe that this law does not meet the challenges and needs of modern society and is not at all applicable in the digital system. So I'm still wondering which interest groups are you actually agreeing with this law? And the question of the director, so I guess plumbers like in Senj won't be directors in other places where HDZ is in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96932	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96933	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, you have listened very carefully to me, but you are still asking a question for something that I have answered very clearly. What is written in the opening work, so the law was done by a working group where experts, library experts, is not Croatian Librarian Society the only association, it is an important association, they have mobilized, it is good, I said it is good. The law is only in the first reading, we'll see how we'll finalize it in the second reading, but all the objections of the National and University Library have been respected, we've worked together with your former ministry, and you know very well, you've been a minister, how many problems are in that part of the system. During your government school libraries didn't even get swears to purchase buildings in libraries, you're aware of that problem, you're aware of the problem I was just talking about in high school libraries is this terribly diverse, so we have to address it with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96934	Dear colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96935	Thank you, Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer to article 20 of the bill which appoints the director and there we have one legal discrepancy because if the director says the public library which the founder of the Republic of Croatia appoints and resolves the minister, not the Parliament, but so it says in the bill, but if he is the founder of the public library of the local self-government unit, then he is not appointed or resolved by the mayor, but by the representative body. This means that if it is about the Republic of Croatia, you are giving yourself the authority to appoint and resolve the Director, and by the same concept, the mayors should, in fact, solve the appointment of the Director rather than the representative bodies. So it's a simple conflict of representative authorities and executives from different levels, local and national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96936	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96937	It's kind of hard for me to answer this because I don't think we get along well. So here refers in fact to two libraries in the Republic of Croatia, the National and University Library which is later developed and the second is the Croatian Library for the Blind, founded in fact by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia. All other national libraries are founded by local units, local administrations and self-government and this question about who the director is we actually have in fact made changes to the law on local self-government in 2008 or 2009. So there is now no large number of national libraries, it is two libraries National and University, which has an administrative council in accordance with the Law on Institutions, and there are representatives of the two ministries and experts in the library profession. So the exact same model as you have HNK, as you have other central public institutions in culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96938	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96939	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So you suggest that a person who runs a library does not necessarily have to be professional and you express your belief that it will appoint another highly educated person who meets the conditions, has experience etc. However, HDZ practice shows the opposite. For example. In Slun, the city’s mayor, who is a plumber, was elected as the director of the library, and his explanation was that he could be the director of the library as well as the mayor, because the graduate does not need a university and then is not needed for the director of the library. Basically, you're opening Pandora's box and with all your honorable intentions, the local sheriffs are going to understand that completely different and they're going to name libraries again people who are going to get paid, and nothing really useful is going to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96940	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96941	Thank you for this question, therefore incorrectly. In Slunj, the director of the library was not appointed, but was appointed as the official of the office. She can't be the library director of someone who doesn't have high-end expertise. I repeat, Article 20(8) to the Director of the Public Library may, on the basis of the proposed four-year work, be appointed persons and then this entire system is graduate, undergraduate, etc. a high level of professional preparation and that fulfils the requirements laid down in the Regulation, which prescribes professional references in the library profession. That's one. Two exceptional, and I initially explained that extremely. Because I don't think anyone's interested in having anyone like that come forward that we're closing the library. We all travel through Croatia very much. I am now not going to give examples of large municipalities with whom we have opened libraries in all previous mandates, which unfortunately today barely find a professional frame and citizens have the right to a book.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96942	Thank you. Dear colleague Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96943	Dear Minister, I apologize in advance on behalf of my colleagues at MOST who have set up a replica for you, they have not heard well, so here I apologize. Probably those 2.5 thousand who sent you comments didn't hear you very well either. Now, I'm interested in one thing, you're allowing library directors to be any kind of profession, they don't have to be librarians. It's a degradation of the profession whatever you're saying. You make it possible, so I will respond immediately to the replica that you were supposed to answer to Mr. Bunjec, allow the performers to be anyone and how it is not defined in the law they can be as much as they want. Great. Is that legalizing infatuation? But now what's interesting is you're saying that if other professions are not allowed to manage the library it's a humiliation of another profession. Well, it's like I come and want to be a gym teacher and then they tell me I can't because I'm a psychiatrist and I say, "I'm sorry, you're humiliating psychiatry." And imagine your argument. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I'm asking you to make this right so you don't humiliate the institutions any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96944	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96945	Thank you. Mr. Petrov's Law on Institutions limits how long someone can be a performer of duty, so it's regulated by law. I will repeat as many times as it takes today that Article 20(8) and I ask all the honourable MPs to discuss the bill that the Government has sent you and not the interpretations that you received in your coffins. We can discuss the metrics if it says that the director of the public library can be appointed on the basis of the proposed plan by a person who has completed a graduate study, etc., it is distinguished by professional, working and organisational abilities, meeting the requirements of the rules governing professional titles in the library profession. So only such a person can become the director of the library. The next item says, exceptional. And I see that you're saying that if such a person doesn't want us to close the library, that can't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96946	Thank you. You can't get a word in. You can't, so what's wrong with you? You can't. ... Well, because those aren't game rules, so you can't play football with your hand. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96947	But I only have, I'm sorry, I only have one piece of advice. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96948	You can ask for a break. Col. Petrov, a colleague of Petrov, can ask for a break if you want to talk for 2 minutes and then 10 minutes later, otherwise you cannot talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96949	Chairman, I'm gonna ask for a break, I thought I'd just give you some advice, but then I'll give you some advice through this break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96950	Are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96951	I'm looking for a break. I'll explain the break. I would ask you to allow the minister not to have as many restrictions as she has now to respond to the replica, to give her twice as much time, three times as much time, to really explain this to us because apparently she has some other draft law on library in relation to us. I don't know how to explain it differently because the rules that the minister is talking about are supposed to regulate the officials' duties, we don't know that. In addition, he has been calling all the time for an extraordinary word, and that very word was extremely used by HDZ for 20 years to entangle in its municipalities. So here I am asking you on behalf of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to delete the word extremely, respect the profession. If you don't want anything else, then when you've already arrested people and given them 2 years of schooling so that at least they know what they're doing for four years while they're in office, give them something, so don't humiliate the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96952	It's for the club consults to read the law again and see what it's all about. So we continue at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. It's 10.20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.31 HOURS]] Now it's time for a respected colleague named Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96954	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Honored Minister with Associates. So here I am really worried, as much as I was listening here, I hope you won't criticise me too and say that I didn't listen to you, I listened to what you were saying in your presentation and later on in your replicas. But I'm really worried about the fact that understanding you is different from understanding the library profession because you have to respect the fact that over 2,000 remarks came during the e-consultation and that the obvious library profession that has come to us and the public and understanding is quite different from what you're interpreting and that's why I'm worried. Not just me or this home, the High House, but the public. You have to admit there's one big disagreement in understanding and that's what's worrying.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96955	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96956	Thank you. I made it very clear, so more than 2,000 remarks, 71 remarks of the Croatian Librarian Society, of which we half appreciated. And we're gonna keep talking and we've had conversations before the first reading. They have very loudly articulated those few points that they disagree on and we discuss here with you, we will analyze them many times and then refer the law to another reading but it is important that we deal with what the bill says and not in what came into your coffin by email. I ask you only to read the text of the law and to direct us to what you consider in the law that it is not well written. And interpretations are always different. So every comment that goes according to the very text of the law, we will listen carefully, appreciate how we can and make sure that we come with a good text to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96957	Thank you. Now it's all right, esteemed colleague of the bush. Here you go, buddy. ... Thank you very much. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Then let's go to a colleague of the Bulls, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96958	Thank you. Minister, in the applicable law of a highly educated institution, they all had an obligation to set up a library. With this new proposal, private higher education institutions do not need to establish a library. Why do you favor private educational institutions at the expense of the founders where the state and other institutions are? Why are you doing this, can you explain? That's what it says in the law, in your proposal. And will you change that until the second reading? Give me a list of the reasons why you favor private higher education institutions where the founders of the states are? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96959	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96960	If there was a conjecture, if it were written somewhere in the bill, we would listen to you and we would certainly change you, but it doesn't say, and I don't know what article you see it in, and if you can quote the existing law, I said in the opening words what models exist within higher education institutions. A very diverse university library, a city and university library, a science that functions as a university, independent library in universities. So, if you point out the article, if you say what you're worried about, please articulate it as you do every time, the attitude and suggestion of each club are equally heard and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96961	Now it's Comrade Maras' turn. ... Comrade Bulj, I beg you. [[I don't understand.]] Wait a minute, Comrade Maras. So don't turn on the microphone and throw it away, so it's really out of each one, imagine everyone doing it, 151 MPs including whenever they want the microphone and yelling. So please, I'm really asking you as colleagues, as people who have been chosen here by the people to stick to order. Elemental order. Here you go, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96962	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, unfortunately this law and this whole debate will show in essence what kind of chaos we are in as a state and about proposing laws by the government because no law I think so far has been given 2000 and some remarks, and what this law has marked, and we would have had to remove it until the second reading, this is extremely obvious that neither the representatives nor the public is r we all know that it will be extremely normal. You'll see, that's what local sheriffs and mayors like this gentleman in Slunj will put a plumber from HDZ as director of the library director, so everyone else will, when someone calls, cancel out and the next time only a plumber will come forward and become the director of the library. So, at least give it exceptional if you have to respect a certain waist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96963	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96964	Thank you. So, it says next. Exceptionally, if a person who has the prescribed conditions for the Director of the Public Library does not appear on the re-application tender. Tell us if you suggest, exceptionally, if he doesn't answer, close the library, but tell us so, close the libraries where a librarian doesn't answer. If it says in the law that the director can only be a librarian, if he does not exist in small places in Croatia, we will close the libraries. Let us know if that's what you want. If that is the goal, formulate in the form of an amendment to the remark, so we will know that you are committed to closing libraries in the Republic of Croatia. If that's your goal...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96965	Please, just a minute. Minister, I beg you. Comrade Shuker, colleague and colleague Maras, so I ask you, you asked the Minister a question, she suits you not at all, but you get used to your colleague Shuker. So don't be nice and polite, so don't be afraid. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear it.]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96966	Here, I'll just finish. So, suggest we close the libraries, start closing the libraries if that's an emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96967	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96968	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to apologize to the minister, my colleague Shucker has distracted me with his shouting, and I apologize to the minister once more. It's really not hard to be nicer than him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96969	Okay, don't continue the way it started now. Come on, please, let's calm down. We have a very interesting topic, I see it's a great interest and let's normally discuss it in a normal atmosphere. Let's move on. ... Come on, please, please. ... [[You can't hear it.]] Comrade Shuker, please. ... [[You can't hear it.]] Can I give you a warning? [[You can't hear it.]] Here, I'm giving you a warning from my colleague Shucker. ... Here you go, pal Lovrinović. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96970	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. The EU Directive defines libraries as a public good, therefore as cultural institutions. You're promoting libraries in companies here. Ministers, businesses are not non-profit institutions, they won't borrow, they'll rent, they'll pay, we'll pay everyone, and then we'll pay the author's answer. When they see that they are charged means, renting books, they will seek and activate, modify the copyright contract and the Copyright Act. So you're doing everything you can to liberalize further and this segment that is not for liberalisation. I repeat, these are cultural institutions. You want to turn everything into business. There have been about 2,000 objections but I don't remember any law getting so many objections that means the waist is absolutely against it. It wouldn't occur to me to bring such a hollow bill to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96971	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96972	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I have initially explained that this Law stipulates that public libraries are established as public institutions. In the system of providing a public institution nothing changes in this Act, but nothing. Nothing compared to the current system. Nothing. The possibility is opened if someone who is a private person has a valuable structure or has a structure he wants to offer to the public as a library under the conditions that he determines that he can do so. Such provisions have been in place in all laws since the time we were in line with the right business creation in the Republic of Croatia, nothing has happened. No private archives, we have one or two private museums or three. So nothing here, if you create an interest, nothing changes in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96973	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleague Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96974	Thank you. Dear Minister, this law is also a law concerning political activities concerning culture. Clearly, I have put the thesis that it is dangerous when national policy is achieved because then many political predators come out on stage who are using every opportunity to point out their status, their advantage. When it comes to national achievement through culture, that's what's desirable. I am interested in the example of the Bridge University, how will this Law work? So far, the practice has been of this 9 bond of copies printed, one going to bridge university. We will agree that this is a bridge university for many reasons, especially culturally important. With this new proposal, it's done. I think it would because with these three mandatory copies, none of them go to bridge university. I know, I've been listening to you since the 7th minute of your exposure problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96975	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96976	So, like I said, it's about that, so we keep the indicative number of copies. We say it's mandatory, and the other libraries will be able to look for what they need. Just so they don't bury their warehouses with what they don't need. It is certainly necessary to keep a mandatory copy for the University Library in Mostar, which is extremely important. I must say that together with the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, we have actually started to design a model where we will include the Ministry of Science and Education, Culture, Foreign Affairs and the Central State Office in order to make libraries that are either croatistics outside the Republic of Croatia, Lecterates or libraries in communities where there are Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in a much more systematic way supplying books, but the Mostar library of course remains in models of this central procurement through a mandatory copy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96977	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96978	Your Honor, your Honor, Minister. Here, I find it interesting to listen to you bickering with a colleague, Maras, who has a crush on you like all SDPs. We all know, and you mentioned that a great help the Ministry has from the Croatian Librarian Society which we know is under the control of the SDP. So I'm curious, I haven't had a chance to ask you your comment on last year's event. I'm lying, not last year, but this year at the 2nd month when these same team that means it's very prone to SDP and your fans tried to set up a working group for LGBT IQ users in the Croatian Librarian Society, not hiding that it's soon leading and setting up the same LGBT IQs, whatever that means, departments. Then you reacted to me quite this harshly. The SDPs were very pleased with your reaction, so I just want to know whether you're in HDZ or SDP to make a little arrangements with yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96979	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96980	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic, I'm in HDZ and I intend to stay there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96981	Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96982	Dear colleagues, I'm listening here about staffing. We know that the cancer of the early system was humanization, and that's where this system is being introduced today by this culture of cheating. You had deans in Split down there with no diploma, affair index, etc. You could buy in some places, before and today, maybe, order lamb, coffee and diploma, it continued, you shake here between the left, right wing of the party, it doesn't interest me. What's the content of these libraries? People come, young people, economists, social sciences, they know nothing. Now, if we have money to pay for the news millions of kunas, NGOs, we certainly have money to take weeks, supply these libraries with basic magazines, weekly ones, for example. ... which we don't have 40 kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course there's funding, we just haven't set priorities and these people are going out, are they ready for postgraduate studies and who's out there financing it? No one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96983	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96984	Thank you, Mr. Glasnović, the truth is, young people need to read more, we need to fill libraries with quality content, our government has doubled the funds for the purchase of libraries in folk libraries. Our government has adopted a strategy to encourage reading, which is now going to be implemented, in a few weeks, we will call for the first time from the European Social Fund, a tender for the implementation of the Read Encouraging Strategy, 50 million kn, and we will provide not only a more quality fill and engagement of librarians in encouraging reading, but I believe that through this project we will complete the Bible service. I agree with you, it's too little to read, so sometimes in public space, we have the kind of debate we have. I'm sure it'd be better if everyone did, but everyone reads a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96985	Thank you, no more replicas, so I ask the committee's rapporteurs, will they take the floor? If, no, I'm opening the debate, the first is the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague of Sunchana Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96986	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, Assistants, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing we started this morning's debate with the topic that got you interested and it's coming from the culture area, I think it's extremely good. What's not good, it's not good not to read, something that comes to our benches and it's not good to give a break and talk about something that's not really a metric. To begin with, I will say that in the Republic of Croatia, at least according to the register of the Ministry of Culture, 1603 libraries are registered. And I'll tell you why I'm mentioning this information right now. The most controversy is about who can be the director, how the director will be elected, what are the conditions, etc. My colleagues and colleagues, it says very clearly who can be elected director, what are the conditions, whether this can be modified into something else, until the second reading, whether there will be a debate on it, we can discuss it. But what has been standing so far and is now in the law, is the very word you discussed most here. So once again I repeat 1603 libraries, small environments. Libraries are in these small environments and they add value, where cultural programs are held, where the whole culture is actually summed up maybe in those two rooms and what are we going to do then? We will not have an expert, and we will not be able to apply this exceptionally when we do not hear from an expert, as is stated in the article. Article 20, paragraph 8, paragraph 9, and then we're going to shut down the library. I don't think that's good. So, please read the proposal, can some other articles of the law be better written, agree, and it is good that a lot of remarks have come in the public debate. I don't hold that short. I'm holding on to something, which the profession realized should be discussed in a quality way and I repeat again, the minister said several times, that 71 remarks came, most of which were adopted. Therefore, you could too and all of us would be involved in a public debate. Besides, that's why we've passed such laws, so we can all get involved in a public debate, be part of it, argue with the profession, but then let's read what came to our benches, and let's not just read what we get through the email. For comparison, yes, for the discussion yes, but we haven't heard any concrete suggestions. In addition to these 1603 libraries, I must say that the Ministry of Culture also provides salaries for employees of the central libraries of national minorities, namely Hungary, Slovakia, Austrians, Italians, Albanians, Ukrainians, Serbs and Slovenians and Bosniaks. So I'm talking here in an entire online thing we call culture, culture in a broader sense of the word. Through libraries, different programs also take place. For the purposes of this proposal for public cultural needs for 2018, almost 393 applications for the programme were granted. So, almost everything, we're talking about 20 million kn. I'm talking about something that comes directly from the state budget, i.e. taxpayers, who pay into that state budget, to return to our small environments. And I think we should take care of that. When we talk about development projects, therefore, almost half a million kn goes to workshops, seminars, libraries are not only directors, libraries are not just employees, libraries are people, libraries are members, who have there and a library that they can borrow, which they can participate in various events etc. If you want a short parallel and let's see what's actually going on. In April of this year, the GFK agency did an interesting research, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia read a book, a book, over the course of the year. It's about people under the age of 24 who read more than average, 77% of highly educated people read more than average and more than average, so this one book reads women and those who live in larger cities. Now why am I bringing this up? Because the next question they asked is how do we get the literature we read. That's usually the loan in libraries, so they're our added value and we have to talk about them and they're being talked about by this bill. That is why the HDZ Club will support this proposal in its first reading, of course, with everything we can improve until the second reading, and there will be opportunities to talk to the minister and to make some suggestions. Now, once again, I want to say what the draft bill regulates. So library activity, establishment and termination of library work, structure, management of libraries, type of libraries, work of NSK in Zagreb, library system in the Republic of Croatia and other issues of importance for the performance of library activities. The text of the draft proposal in relation to the current Library Act therefore regulates the content of library activities involving the digitisation of buildings, the organisation of online library services and the design and management of digital building depositories. The bodies of the public library are prescribed, the minister already spoke about it when she represented, the director, the board of directors and the expert council and the conditions for their appointment. It shall be extended in this proposal and the scope of the work of the NSK, its tasks, structure and management. The status of cultural goods for Croatia, the national collection of library buildings and the status of cultural goods for books and other printed works, newspapers, magazines, posters and similar works produced by the 1850s and all the manuscripts of public libraries and libraries that form the legal entities of which are the founders of the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional self-government. It is prescribed that founders are obliged to provide funds for the work of libraries, the purchase of buildings, the means for continuous professional training of librarians. I think this is a good thing, too, that in this way we will be able to get quality experts and perhaps bridge this challenge that we have discussed today, just one article of the draft bill. It is prescribed to adopt a national plan for the development of libraries and library activities, which is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the establishment, tasks, composition and operation of the Croatian Library Council. The scope, purpose of collection and handling of a mandatory specimen shall be prescribed taking into account changes in production technology and publication of library buildings. There may be room here for that mandatory copy of the magazine to be downloaded from existing databases, perhaps until another reading to think about. The supervision of the professional work of libraries and the supervision of law enforcement shall also be regulated, taking into account the different types of libraries and their status under specific laws. I'd just like to look back on maybe an article on the 34th that talks about private libraries. My opinion that private libraries can actually be resources that will enrich the public system and perhaps be added value. In addition, Article 34 provides that private libraries are required to ensure the work of professional librarians to carry out professional activities in the library in accordance with the standards prescribed for certain types of libraries. Of course there's a library code, and I think that's good, that's well-defined. Perhaps in this entire political turbulence scene we forgot to say the month of the Croatian book. So the programme board of the month of the Croatian book adopted a proposal that the opening ceremony would be held in Zagreb on 15 October. This year's event will be dedicated to cultural heritage. I think it's worth saying, and the main theme is the heritage, and the motto is, "Load the legacy." The main motif of verbs as a special feature of Croatian heritage, national and cultural identity. So let's see what it does, what happens on the month of the Croatian book, and how the book can enlarge our life. You probably met up with some fake news. Why am I saying this in the context of the law or the bill? After the US elections, an interesting analysis was made and comments that appeared in the media world or in the media page that was met by voters were actually amazing. False news was not just a matter of choice, it was and were always a matter of information and media literacy. At that point, a matter of importance and a librarian was raised. So the Librarians wondered if they might have stayed in the information world and whether libraries were relevant because of Internet availability and false news that often appear on the Internet exactly those places that must not be negligible, which must satisfy our curiosity, but must provide true information. One interesting study, and I think that in the context of libraries and in the context of divulging the truth from lies or faca news, we would have to turn to those institutions that, when we were much younger or when we were in another time, were the source of real information, learned to think, conclude and then make judgments. Of course, we must not neglect that the Internet world brings us many good things and makes it easier for us, for example, to make it available in electronic form to some magazines, books, that a lot of people reach out equally to the platforms through which their books are available. Is there room for improvement of legal provisions? I think it always exists, the laws are there to change, to adapt, but I think we have to do it to give the initiative to create the reputation of libraries as reliable organizations, to have good preconditions for the work of people who are in libraries. And, of course, through everything else, the Ministry of Culture, or their founders, must make sure that they have sufficient financial resources. I am sure that the Ministry of Culture and the HDZ Club will have not some objections, but perhaps some corrections in certain articles of the law will be open to talk and I call on all other colleagues to do so, we have time to take a second reading to look at what is actually in our draft law, which are the observations of the profession, where we can find a balance of course to find a second reading, i.e. until the final proposal we have one good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96987	We are going to the second debate of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96988	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. We have before us the Library Act, a law that is essentially very important for a number of reasons. One is because culture, the foundation of the identity of every nation, nation. On the other hand, because this law covers a huge number of users. So in Croatia we have about 1800 libraries and a million 300 thousand members, which basically means that library services are used by one third of the population of Croatia, we could practically say then from almost the entire population. Normally, some people are not yet up to the proper use of the library. And what's problematic here is that this law that should essentially be a good law, a law that everyone would accept practically by consensus has caused as much controversy as a few other laws. So as we heard in the debate in the e-consultation there were as many as 2600 objections, they were really amazing. I also don't remember as an advocate that any law had so many objections, even those most controversial laws like the Executive Act and some similar ones. The profession is particularly dissatisfied with the law and it is claimed that they were brought through a done act, so they simply could not participate in the preparation of the law in a good way, nor could they make comments, they did not have sufficient deadlines, so that this law was, in fact, exclusively a product of the ministry's work. There are so many, written remarks that if I went to discuss the article by article now, I would probably have to talk to you by morning about what is not necessary and the Rules of Procedure allow such discussions to be discussed. I will then be aware of my debate in only a few key places and the first is the unfortunate privatisation which represents the continuation of the disastrous story of concessions and outsourcing in Croatia where public goods are given to private people. This, however, existed in the world 50 or 60 years ago, but this practice is now being abandoned because it was seen that if public goods are given to private citizens to get to the next one, wage cuts to employees, cancellations, while reducing service quality and price increases for users. Because if it's private, it has to have profit, it has to have profit, while something that's public doesn't have to have profit but is enough to do business at zero. So the privateer must have at least 5% of the profits, the public good doesn't have to have that 5%. On the other hand, if something is private, it has proved to be less transparent in the work, which in this case is not good. According to international standards, libraries must be non-profit organisations. In order to apply for any competition at all, it means whether a library wants to withdraw any funds from the EU or I don't know through some other methods must be a non-profit organisation. As soon as it was founded as a profit organization, it means as a company, a private library or... etc., it is automatically excluded from the world of international libraries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what's not good. I know the minister will say but these are just a few libraries, a couple of libraries, exceptional cases, but they always start such changes and start with exceptional cases, so they start slowly and then over the years, for decades, these exceptions become a general rule. And that's what worries us that we are here today to sow seed of something that will become the main content of work in the future. So it also started with this unfortunate GMO, from the beginning a little bit, from the beginning just a few promo, a few fields, a couple of products, so today we have an explosion that no one can control anymore. Especially what concerns people, in general, think about it, and don't let God happen in practice, to privatize, be school libraries or university libraries for them to be joined or for them to take some foreign library services. This would mean not only a marked decline in the quality of library work, but it would mean most likely their closure, given that most schools could not actually organise or pay for such services. What I mentioned already in my replica now only briefly can I mention, too, that library directors do not have to be a professional person and most important in the law there is no list of professional titles at all. We in Croatia have a library study and other related studies, and there is no need then, to introduce this rule of exceptions, better then to educate more staff and ensure that each library can choose its own expert, rather than that case in Slunj, that a plumber, by order of the HDZ, can perform the function of the library director. Also, what is very controversial in the law is the abolition, the practical giving of mandatory copies, because these mandatory copies are given only nine. 8 are given to university libraries, one is given to the parent county library. However, it is important to say that the rule is already not respected. You don't respect yourself. Libraries basically get about 70% mandatory copies, which means that 30% of these mandatory copies don't come to libraries at all, and they should work on it, not even these mandatory copies that come, that they are also being abolished. These mandatory specimens allow students, above all, and students, to come to the necessary building for their education, for their student work, for their student work, for their graduates, and for scientists, to write articles, to write books. These mandatory samples do not constitute any damage to the issuer, as measures are taken in the diabolicals. So some 1,000 copies of one edition, nine copies given, that's 1%, less than 1%. If the circulations of book fees are larger, by 2,3 thousand copies, then that amounts to 0.2 0.3% of the charge, which someone can't really say, that now it's some particular financial damage, and the benefit for libraries, for society, is extremely great for culture. If libraries were to be required to obtain themselves what is issued in the Republic of Croatia, this would be the principle that they themselves must buy some 6,000 books a year and about 1,500 other different editions, so there are scientific journals, newspapers, etc. Which they simply couldn't, because there would be no such means, and on the other hand, they wouldn't even be able to find out, which all the books were published, because there is no procedure, that there are no ways, where there are some kind of central records, to get to those lists. In view of this, we especially need to be concerned that many Croatian books are lost today, they are lost and the libraries have to get them at which auctions, from abroad, and this, already now, by this law, libraries do not have everything they should have, and then probably, if the law changes, in a worse sense, they will have even less. Here we must point out another important thing, which is that the most valuable information, is the best information a person can get in books. In books and scientific journals, and there's no media, there's no computer, there's no tablet, there's no cell phone that can replace the book. And simply, the human eye is not adjusted to a sufficient extent, it is a completely different experience when reading a book, nor can it happen that all books are digitized, transferred to computers, eventually, not all people have money for quality computers and help to read these books. That's why we're actually afraid, that in this way, it's not only suitable for stakeholders who could possibly make a profit on it. Not only do they purposely think in the budget to make savings in a completely wrong place, but to try to reduce the level of knowledge in society. That people want to turn into workers without general education. Servants and pagans. And here we must very carefully promote a wider picture, especially in terms of these statements, made by Mr. Vrdoljak and Mrs. Divjak, so that, in fact, future workers in Croatia should be at the level of some Segert, who would learn to do a very narrow part of the work while not having general knowledge such as those in history, geography, biology, chemistry etc.. Interestingly along with that, let's say simple knowledge of your own expertise that you would have acquired would have taught a religious lesson but these other subjects shouldn't... And for what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? And then when we see people being denied the right to go to the library, to deny them the right to read books, we have the right to think about, therefore, that someone simply wants to lower the quality of education. And for that reason, we're worried. We are concerned and simply believe that there may be a plan, aware or unconscious that people are ultimately made less free, more obedient and that society is less democratic about which no extra questions will be asked, which will therefore not be expressed any civil disobedience, but that some structures will be much easier to manipulate than they have done so far. So this was just a brief review of the existing law. I could now say that the Living Wall does not accept the law in this form, but I will say something else, and I think that in doing so I will express the opinion of a vast number of people who are engaged in the profession, which is that it is best to withdraw this law from the procedure and start doing it over and over again with the profession, along with people who have been in it all their lives, and basically this law that has been so far is much better than this changed that we should just adopt. Therefore, if you want to avoid a fiasco-respected minister with this law, maybe it's best that we start all over again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96989	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. We move on to the next debate and the name of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96990	Thank you, Mr. President, ministers and colleagues and colleagues. So, we heard earlier today, about this also colleague Glavak how important reading is and how little we read in Croatia, just over half of Croatian citizens 56% read one book in a year. Here I will boast of the Primorje-Gorski County, which is the most read in Croatia, more than 67%, so I guess the SDP wins all the time because people are more read and then they can bring more healthy information. That may be on the trail of what he's saying and a colleague of the Bunyans. But I would still disagree with that, I don't think it's the goal in Croatia that people know less. Today information is very available, but to become knowledge is a long way to go and there must be a great role in schools and all libraries. What I want to point out at the outset as a general assessment of this legislative proposal which should replace a law that is very old in 1997 that did not do so in the most qualitative way. So the proposal we've got is not developed, it's obsolete and what's particularly worrying is completely unusable in the digital world. Proposers did not take into account solutions related to copyright, informational, informational literacy that only enables the use of eGovernment services, eGovernment. The preservation of user privacy has no letters as well as the right of citizens to information as a key role and public interest when we talk about libraries in a modern society and these are actually European achievements not this kind of false need to enable the opening of private libraries. However, it is better not to mention here what is said about a digital library that is mentioned in one section as a reference to that new era. We have heard that a large part of the profession represented by the Croatian Bookkeeping Society as the highest to say the association dissatisfied with this legal proposal, they have sent a whole series of remarks, and we have all received comments. Here I am not going to read all this, you have all received this proposal, opinions and remarks from the Croatian Book Society where everything they are not satisfied with is listed. So I will reiterate here that it is not a good practice that has started to happen in the Croatian Parliament to arrive at us proposals that are addressed to e-consultation without having previously consulted the wider professional public. The minister said the representatives of the profession participated in drawing up this draft before going to e-consultation. However, that large number of remarks shows that this is not the case. It was similar yesterday with the Labour Protection Act and with some other legal documents that would certainly be better quality for them to be conducted prior to e-consultative and expert consultation. There's a lot of objections, there's no need for me to stress them all again since you got it all, that the minister stressed that until the second reading, she would appreciate at least a part of it, and I hope that the proposal will really be more quality. But what should certainly be pointed out is that library today has a major impact on the education and culture of citizens of the youngest age, which children read earlier and will then read later to retirement age. And the adoption of this new Library Law should be beneficial rather than harmful to the development of society. We mentioned the establishment of private libraries a lot and it is still unclear whether the space of speculation is open because I repeat, underline, point out, library is a non-profit activity. In the bill of law, unsuitable barata and professional dictionaries are put in contrast to private libraries, which in the opinion of a large part of the profession is actually a bad translation for public library or public library. So here I will quote one of the opinions that says that the library activity is a non-profit activity aimed at free and accessible access to information and cultural, professional and scientific content. The assessment of the situation of this legislative proposal, as one of the reasons for the adoption of the law, also lists the Service Act which allows for the provision, the carrying out of library activities without restriction in the light of legal form. However, the Service Act is in complete contrast with the fundamental sending and objectives of the operation and establishment of a library whose services are not subject to profit and profit. The intention of opening libraries to the private sector is evident from the division of libraries to public and private, leaving the previously accepted shared independent and library in the composition, as well as the information on the financial operations of libraries established as companies and cooperatives in Article 32, paragraphs 3 and 4. I must remind you that the loan and the lease are not the same and that the Law on Copyright in this legal document is not well-compliant. I must also say that the proposal for private libraries does not practically provide for any conditions for the director or head of the library in the composition, and for the staff that only needs to be, quote: secure work, secure work. Therefore, most of the professional professions in this regard result in the ability of anyone, in particular in the light of the provision of Article 33(1) of the proposal, to be responsible for professional work, rather than to be carried out by professional staff. Therefore, private libraries can practically work and hire whatever and whoever. Some market liberalization advocates have already called for some non-existent provisions on private universities themselves so that the school would not have to meet certain or minimum requirements in the host country and thus not have a library, so that it is something that is controversial and I ask that it be resolved until the second reading. I repeat that libraries operating in public space, national, school, high school, special, national and university, science, are largely financed by public funding from the Croatian budget, EU funds, taxpayers' money, is particularly a source of scientific information. Therefore, users receive scientific information for free. Founding the so-called private libraries, companies or cooperatives shall open up the possibility of public funds being used to generate profits through the payment of information and services. Private libraries which wish to operate in public space as independent legal entities must meet the same requirements as independent libraries whose founder is one of the public bodies of the Republic of Croatia or as libraries of public institutions. Libraries in the form of private legal persons, some private colleges that want to operate in public space must also meet the same conditions for public activity. The Library Act should be prescribed significantly that such a funded and established library must meet all the conditions in order to act in public space and that is, in fact, all wisdom, so it is not necessary to mess with the division of public and private, but rather to maintain the division of the independent and the ones in the composition. The questionnaire is therefore also put on the future of libraries in school and higher education institutions, which are now 80% of libraries, and if a proposal is accepted as it is now in the law, founders of new schools, higher education institutions could bypass the obligation to set up libraries in their own composition, the minister has denied it in the opening statement, but I ask that the second reading be clearly stated in the legislative proposal. Therefore, the new proposal for a law on libraries and library activities poses quite a blow to the standards of profession reached. Directors, leaders of libraries in the future should not be library professions, and professional titles have been expelled from the text of the law, so it is unclear whether or not professional employees will work in libraries. So it's certain that in libraries, there will be fewer and fewer librarians. Proposals for legal reduction of standards and conditions already reached for the professional performance of library activities, structure and management of libraries also raises doubts that this is actually trying to legalise employment in management and other places, which we have already had the case and that is why we are very careful here. Thus, the law allows the work to be done by unprofessional workers. I think we all agree that the job of a librarian is not just to bring a book from a shelf, that this job involves processing library buildings, management of information and information sources, consulting library users and maintaining a whole series of educational programs. The new draft law for the director of the library no longer needs to satisfy the terms of the expert exam, which we also think is wrong. In conclusion, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I must say that we will be against this proposal because we do not consider it to be of any quality. The Croatian library system is today high quality despite the 1997 law, so it is clear that libraries are non-profit institutions that allow equal legal access to information and recorded knowledge, cultural, professional and scientific content. They are the social communications centres of each community, from least to the largest metropolis and play a huge social role in culture, information, support, social integration and education. So while we are against the idea, we know that the proposal will go further, so we ask the Ministry to really sit at the table this time with representatives of the library profession, the professional community and together until the second reading to form a law that will protect libraries as a public well-being of the entire society, not a space to meet the needs of certain interest groups, which we are afraid of through this draft proposal is going through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96991	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96992	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I asked for a word to clarify some things after the presentation of these two clubs. First of all, I will refer to what Mr. Jovanovic spoke as a former minister of science and education. So we have pears and we have apples. Library in the composition or independent library and in this or an independent library. And in a moment, it can be private and public. The library of the private university Libertas is a private library. You know that very well. So there's a division of private and public, depending on who their founder is. After that, to the library types. School, folk, explicite is mentioned in the law, it's public library. There was no mistake in the translation. High school, special, etc. And now the library is part of the private university of Libertas, a private library, doesn't make any profit, is founded as an institution. The only place where a company or cooperative is mentioned, etc., Article 32 adopted two months ago by this Assembly. in the Law of Museums and three months ago. and the Archive Act, which is a standard article of the Ministry of Finance which only regulates how financial operations are conducted, is not mentioned elsewhere except in definitions where we say there is a public library, a non-profit legal person carries out a library activity and is established by public authorities or public institutions. The private library is a library that is the founder of other rights or a natural person. Done. There's no other word in this law about it. I ask you to refer to the text of the law and give us an objection if it exists somewhere in the bill. But I'm very hard to answer for the interpretation of something that's in the legal text. You yourself listed the library types and mentioned the national libraries, yes, that's what the law says. This requirement to retain independent libraries or libraries in the composition is a nomenclature that we no longer know today. I mean, what it means is whether it's an independent library or a library in the system, so it remains. Why does it have to be prescribed by law, it's not different types of libraries, it's just a question of structure. So that's one, you say the proposal isn't developed, it's totally unacceptable in digital light, you mention the IPR Act, and now we've had a great deal of activity on the copyright directive, let's hope it goes into this range. We advocated her adoption. It will just give way, liberalise in a positive sense access to all public and educational content, so that is regulated by these laws, Croatia stands firm. You say no digital library is being developed, every proposal you can make in that direction we'll be happy to listen to it, but we can't get too crazy because technology is changing very quickly and then we'll fall into a trap to actually set some rules that we have to change the law very quickly. So, please, I'm going to have a little more reference to what Mr. Bunjac said about us not investing in reading. This government has paid off funds to buy books. This government has adopted a read-in strategy that your government has started, has not finished, we haven't finished it, it's going into implementation, an action plan has been adopted, we're calling for an additional 50 million kuna, people have to read it, and that's what we all have to do. We all have to read and discuss what it says. We lack reading throughout society and really our government wants us to reach consensus, to develop a network of libraries, to increase that share. It's a good situation in the Primorje-Gorski County, we have to improve it elsewhere. It's a good thing there's no number of members in the public libraries but unfortunately the number of people who buy the book falls, all of these are topics we want to settle. Please make any concrete suggestions that you have on this text that is here and not on what you get as comments, we will listen to them all and respect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96993	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96994	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Minister with his associates. Unfortunately, I must conclude that we have had very concrete proposals concerning this law, however, which are not respected. I will still talk about them again with the hope that in the second reading they will still find their place in the law. Library activity is a non-profit activity aimed at free and accessible access to information and cultural, professional and scientific content. And that's how it's supposed to stay in practice. We have already heard that the observations of the profession are numerous and that the profession in principle disagrees with the new bill. consider this a step backwards both in conceptual and organisational terms and in the broadest professional sense and that it is a negation of the professional standards of the profession in the Republic of Croatia so far achieved. There's a lot to take care of. The point is that the profession was not involved in the creation of a final bill proposal during the e-consultation, so we heard more than 2600 objections that were rejected again, as the librarians say, for no valid reason. The most numerous libraries in the library system of the Republic of Croatia play a primary educational role, so all primary school, high school, high school libraries and in large part the National and University Library, they are considered to be necessary for a stronger engagement and impact of the Ministry of Science and Education on the adoption of the Law on Librarys and Library Activity. The important role of the library is in the democratisation of society, the development of information society as well as the importance of library activities in order to promote and develop literacy, culture, education, knowledge, and the preservation of national, literary, artistic and scientific creation. The 2002 Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities has circled the legislation of the Republic of Croatia towards national minorities. The role of central libraries is to provide users free access to information in mother tongue through coordinated procurement, central processing and distribution of buildings. In this regard, it is open, equipped with central libraries of national minorities currently 10 in the Republic of Croatia. Most of the national minorities' central libraries in the Republic of Croatia were formed in the 1990s and their work became part of the Ministry of Culture in 2000. In the fourth century of their existence, the minority library has become important places of promotion, both cultures of national minorities and the meeting place of Croatian culture and culture of their countries of origin. This model exists in practice, therefore, for almost 30 years and should have its place in the new law. The central libraries of national minorities contribute to the development of tolerance, respect and understanding through their multicultural activities. That is why we asked that this status, therefore, already existing, nothing new, nothing is invented, regulated and in this new law, and we have proposed concrete solutions. So, according to the purpose of the national minority library, it has to provide library services for all types, categories and age of the population, to the communities of the national minorities for which they are established. Such a formulated provision would cover all libraries of national minorities, existing ones, but the possibility would also be left for the establishment of new ones. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8. when it comes to the library organisation, it stands, according to the purpose and content of the library type library are national, national, school, university library at high school, scientific, specialized, and we propose a library of national minorities. Next, in Art. The 9th is about who can start a public library, so there is a list of the Republic of Croatia, local self-government units, etc. A private library can be established by a legal and physical person. We suggest that here in that article. 9. stands, the library of the national minority can be established by the public library, and by the association of the national minority. This formulation satisfies the existing situation because 9 libraries are within the city's public institutions and one within the association, but we also open the possibility of establishing new libraries for national minorities. Furthermore, the library system of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, in an indication of who does everything in the library system add that, add this Article 3. would be so. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 36th parent activity for individual national minorities is carried out by the central library for that national It's the same story with the funds. In fact, we propose to implement the entire bill. Here, one of my own, that's what this was all about when it came to national minorities' libraries. I regret that this proposal does not address this issue, given that in time we have addressed and pointed to these illogicalities. Now you've explained one of my concerns about the private library. We also consider it a controversial article. 10. which provides the possibility that newly established schools and higher education institutions do not necessarily need to establish a library in the composition but can already sign a contract with a local library on the provision of services. So, as soon as possible, I am almost certain that someone will take advantage of this possibility and this way prevents students, teachers, teachers and students directly from accessing information, and further deny students the possibility of information descripting, developing reading habits and all that the school library provides as the information and media centre of each school institution. Leaving the possibility of not setting up libraries in the form of those institutions would severely violate the provisions of the IFLA guidelines and manifesto, so I also call for this to be taken into account. One of the remarks is that professional calls have been expelled with the reason that all details will be broken down through several regulations. This is bad because until the rules are passed, and the deadline for their adoption is up to a year, there will be a questionable situation, and the problem is that the competent minister can, by means of the rules, determine how he wants and how he solves it. It has repeatedly been pointed to a controversial article. 20, which speaks of the appointment of the director of the library, but I thank you for the explanation, I respect it myself, it was also a concern to me, but in the further text of the bill, I accept it myself. However, in art. 41st, when speaking of three mandatory copies, the publisher is obliged to deliver to the national university library, instead of the current definition of 9 copies. That, too, is what I think should keep the previous practice there. In the end, I would like to say that only the Bill's proposal, or the whole document, which, as well as the Librarians, provides equal working and development conditions for all types of libraries, can be a prerequisite for the development of the library system of the Republic of Croatia which has to be said, is high standards. We believe that this effort with the aim of creating a truly quality document for all libraries and librarians of Croatia will be made because of their importance in education and education, ensuring economic development and preserving cultural identity. Now here is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS calling for cooperation and for the second reading of the above remarks to be made clear, we expect our remarks concerning the libraries of national minorities to be respected because otherwise we will not support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96995	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dragani Jeckov. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96996	Vice President, I won't waste my time, but I would like to, given that this is a specific topic, just to refer to this issue as a national minority librarian. We took note of the remarks, and we agreed to talk again until the second reading. Namely, the libraries of national minorities by their definition are not libraries, they are actually collections within folk libraries other than the Enlightenment Library which was founded, she has another tradition and she was founded by an association, she is otherwise a private library. So by its definition, which is the Library of Education, she is a private library because she was founded by the association, to be clear. It doesn't win any money, you know it very well. So, the collections are being arranged by sublaws, so no details about any collections are being edited by this law. And we ourselves asked ourselves whether somewhere in this good tradition that the Republic of Croatia has, financing and support and especially obtaining books in these libraries of national minorities, we have not found the best expression, because it would not be good to insist that they go towards some independence, given that they are very specific and yet I think that these collections should be viewed as services. Here we are in conversations with the Slovak Community who at this time have a library within the Nasice library, but when it is established, when the restoration of the Slovak home is completed, then there will be conditions for this library service to be provided within a broader concept of the Cultural Centre for Slovaks in Nasice. On the other hand, it is very important that this library service is distributed everywhere that members of the national minority live, so I think that we need to be very careful in speaking, not to fix the library of the national minority with some legal person, in such a way create a great commitment to financial-logist rather than achieve the goal of better dispersion of library services where citizens who would reach for these books are. But in any case, we are to discuss until the second reading to see how we have now included the specific library for the blind in law to confirm its importance and its existence, and I hope, of course, and in doing so in all bilateral contacts with other countries, I think we would all be happy to have the Croatian minority in other countries to have this standard of providing library services that we have achieved in providing services to national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, as for professional titles, the same formulation, we adopted the same model here two months ago. for museums three months ago. archives and everything we explained then why I think the precise definition of how it progresses is that it is not the place in the law because then the law needs to be changed too often. It would only be referred to because you mentioned it, so Article 41 does not speak of a 3 mandatory specimen, he speaks 3 mandatory copies plus the prescribed number of copies according to the rule, and I explained in my presentation why, simply because there is no need... in the Republic of Croatia goes absolutely every copy of everything printed, it has no European state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When a representative of the Bunjac spoke on behalf of the Living Wall Club, he said a very dangerous thesis, he said now that there is no mandatory copy, they would have to buy books. A mandatory copy is no substitute for obtaining books. The mandatory sample cannot be available or can be used in a way that borrows and uses it outside, so unfortunately in Croatia it happened to replace the purchase of books with a mandatory copy. That's not good, we have to change that, we're doing it very precisely, but we're sure that until the second reading with you we'll still consider how best to verify in this law that good specificum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96997	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, at the very beginning of this proposal it is stated that the reason or let's say one of the main reasons why it is going with the new law, the progress of information technology, the other words of all possible electronic books, the virtual possibility of access, etc. which did not exist when the laws which now regulate it were passed, so it is necessary to harmonise it. However, in the very text of the bill, I would say that this is not the case, so in some things there are those topics that we can say unquestionably that we should include them and alert them, although the question is whether in this way, but most of the proposal itself actually refers to quite other things that the technology has not affected. I think it shows by itself how well the model that we've had so far shows the fact that the authors of the law here in the introduction state that there are now over a million and 300,000 members, people who are members of different libraries and that in one year more than 11 million books and not books, units, but 70% of them books and brochures. So not that people come and take the paper, but almost 68 and some percent are books and brochures. I think this data itself shows that there is still something about all the difficulties, the lack of money without further ado, and I think what the minister was talking about is that these examples that have to stay in the library aren't for borrowing, but they did it because they didn't have the money to buy these copies through what they had to keep, which is why it happened, not because of some whim, so there was no money. Therefore, if it is expected not to be done, appropriate funds must be provided. But in all these difficult conditions, so I don't know if there's anything in Croatia that has over a million and 300,000 members, I don't even know, about so many people going out to vote in Croatia, so it's just one manifestation of the fact that something still worked and that it's something people use and there's an old rule, if something isn't broken, don't fix it. In other words, if it works, do not keep trying to change something because it can only be broken. Obviously, as I said some things that are related to technological development need to be included. From the debate and here and the introduction and the text itself and all these remarks that we have received from all sides it seems that there are several, I would say, 4 basic main problems that have been seen regarding this law. So one refers to these private libraries, the other related to that point refers to what was mentioned here, which is the possibility of treating the library as a profit organization. It seems to me that in the debate we've cleared up this problem, so treating the library as a profit organization, of course, it's hard to imagine, but it's not quite unimaginable. As far as private libraries are concerned, there are private libraries, as has been said to be so far. But what did not exist were private libraries whose founder is a private natural person. It's as new as it seems to me, and correct me if I didn't, so there were private universities, associations, etc. This newspaper that I can start a private library or take my library and here's what I'm going to do now I'm going to borrow books from my library is something that, depending on the way it's regulated, can be plus, and can be minus. So plus it could be if it made it possible for a private person who really has, she inherited anything, a large library, to sort of make it available to the public. But of course such libraries can be, as we know, and in different ways specialized, that I don't get into the possibility of specializing. Therefore, it should be very careful not to use one good intention to enroll a hole in the law, so it does not enter one passage through which a defect can be legalized or open a space for a different activity that could come under a private library here. The third problem that opens this law is the separation of libraries and virtual libraries, i.e. the electronic works of buildings that libraries still have today. You can go in today, maybe not all of course, but in these larger libraries, and today you can get in, have files, have your own electronic part. Here I think it would be very important to explain whether these two types of materials or materials whose libraries are placed mate in different insinuations, therefore, in different libraries or they remain together, as they have been so far. This, so let's just say, is an up-to-date regulation, which opens up a wider broad, given the technological development for this IT material that can now be in libraries. The 4 points that are controversial and that many colleagues and colleagues in the debate and the minister often mentioned in their answers are these conditions for directors. And I think there are colleagues and colleagues who debated and the minister is right. So on the one hand, the problem is if the condition for a library director is not that a person is a librarian or a librarian, and on the other hand, it would really be a shame for libraries in some smaller places to be closed, because there is no and no one to report to the tender who has that qualification. The proposal for GLAS and HSU is to resolve the dilemma here until the second reading if you are accepted by reshaping this article, where it would be said, not that it is a condition for a person to be a librarian or a librarian, except in exceptional cases, where he does not have to, etc. Instead, because it knows what it means. That means, I will now declare that they are exceptional conditions and I will hire someone else. Tom can be avoided, if it is said, that the condition is that the person of the library profession, if he does not report to the competition no one who is a librarian's profession, can be chosen and a person, etc. As defined in the law. And that's how you avoided all the dilemmas and doubts, which are colleagues and colleagues, here, I think justifiably expressed, because we know that there's a very different law when we look at it on the screen in your office, and it's very different when it starts, than when it starts to apply in practice. And as soon as you open a little window, through which it can be avoided that the law is not respected or that the spirit of the law is not respected or that the basic provision is made, which is in this case that the director must be a library profession that is not respected, it is you, in real life, that everyone is setting up anyone, who has graduated from any college at home. Of course, it won't happen in the university library, not in the big libraries, but most of them aren't like that, of course. Most, as you can see from your proposal, are smaller libraries and it is actually a core for which this law is passed and to which this law must be applied. It is our opinion that you are changing that formulation, therefore, only if no one who is a librarian is not answering the contest, that you meet the one request, which the minister made, which I think is quite legitimate and justified, which is that no library is closed, if you have no one in place who answered and who has the profession, while closing a hole in the law that everyone through that hole is pushing their different friends and associates, party comrades, etc. who have no de facto qualifications, at the expense of those people, because it happens in real life. What we're about to do, I mean, that's unfortunately, we still have a common phenomenon. Of those major problems, I think I've led them here. In addition, I'd like to warn you of a few more things. I don't think either high school institutions or high school schools should be pushed, so neither schools should be elected or-or. So we'll either have a university library, or we'll have libraries by college. Faculty libraries are manual libraries, they specialize in entering the university. The National and University Library, in my opinion, is excellent I have used it and used it my whole life and is very useful, but it is something quite different when you study and when you work from the library you have at your university for your own students, that is, for your own profession. The students there have, they get to know each other through that library at all, using the library. I think it would be quite wrong to push into the necessity to choose whether a library at a university level or at the level of a city or a library at a school, or a library at a university. We both need each other and it has a kind of different purpose. It really has a different purpose. Libraries in schools, because we've talked a lot about how we'd like to be, what we're not, but of course we'd like to be a society of knowledge, without libraries at school, without having kids learnt to go into that space at all, talk about it, have someone to talk to about what they're going to borrow, what they're going to read, other than what's the most mandatory literature at this time of huge information spilling, and actually little knowledge, so where knowledge is replaced by a bunch of information is necessary. Therefore, we appeal to support it and remain. Since I'm running out of time, I'll just mention that it's interesting that the control of libraries whose founder of the local self-government unit is here is given to the offices of the state administration. So everyone else controls the state's establishment and control. It's only here when it comes to local self-government, so we'd like an explanation for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u96999	I thank my esteemed colleague Vesni Pusic for this debate. On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Nina Obuljen-Kožinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As we now enter the metric, I'll very briefly look back on some things. Dear MP Pusic, regarding your exposure, yes, we had a great dilemma about how much to go into norming issues concerning digitisation and digital libraries. We have kept ourselves at this moment on the definition that the digital library is an organization that can also be virtual, and systematically obtains digital content, manages it, etc. Many of our colleagues from the national and university libraries discussed this definition of organization in particular. So we left a very broad notion that can later depend on the development of technology or turn into the right form of a legal person or organization in terms of organization of a collection that may then be integrated through the system and through, let's say, an organization or a digital collection of loans have in different libraries. At this point, at the level of the Istrian County as a pilot project, a digital loan project of digital books is launched, and projects will be developed at the level of the entire country and we would like to expand it not only to people but also to school libraries. So, we stick around, if I can say conservatively without getting too much into regulation, until we see how that pilot project is going to be set up. As far as your question of the current law is concerned, I agree with the fact that you do not repair what is not broken. However, the current Law says the following, an independent library can be established by other domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. So, that's what it says now, Art. The 5th current Law. So nothing changes just a different sentence in the new bill. So even now, an independent library can form others, even domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. Everything, there's no limit. So, how did this debate happen that suddenly we're introducing something that hasn't happened. So, Art. 5th, Article 2nd of the current proposal of the Law. The separation of libraries and virtual libraries, that's what I said, Art. 3. ct. 12. Conditions for directors, you have read more or less exactly what it says in art. 20, St. 8. Exceptionally, in Article 8, if a person who has the prescribed conditions for the director of the public library does not report to the re-competition, it means who is a librarian, then someone else can. If any parliamentary representative or representative has improved this statement, we will gladly respect it, but that is exactly what it says. And therefore, unless a person who has the prescribed conditions does not report to the re-competition. I'll repeat again, if we write that the director of the library can only be a librarian and if we don't hear from him, the letter of the law requires us to close the library. I mean, we need to be aware of that. It's not a dangerous situation. And in the end, that's exactly why I was in the opening, and I said that we need to be very careful about standardizing this school system. We can't compare one University of Zagreb with all its members and you were a professor, I studied at the Faculty of Philosophy, there even the sections had their libraries actually. And at some other universities, we have a central library. So we have to respect the tradition of what it is, leave one broad possibility, and there are key standards that prescribe whether it's on its own, whether it's university or at a university, the standard is crucial to say what kind of service that library provides. What kind of building the sea, what library fund it must have, and what collections this fund organizes it in. And then we'll be able to provide the service in the best possible way. We often begin to deal with the framework, and we do not deal with content. It is crucial to standardise, standardise and provide quality library service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97001	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. We have one replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97002	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, you insist on that article. The 20th century, you read the 9th, but if you look, it says here either, or, or. Which means, when you're all taken or taken, in the end, there can be anyone, with any expertise and any experience. So when you say or an integrated undergraduate, graduate college, then later if it's not there, it can have at least five years of experience. So, if it is or, one can rule out the other and eventually embrace everything. So I'd ask you to move those upgrades or, or, or, rather, leave the VSS. It's very clear that it's written here and that's why we're saying this is going to make it possible and it's not funny. I don't know, my colleague's laughing at the secretary like I said something crazy. So, I think we should either, or, or move so everyone doesn't end up getting involved in that whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97003	I thank my colleague Maras. Answer, dear colleague of the Minister Nina Obuljen-Kožinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97004	Dear Mr Maras, a graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate, graduate university study or a specialist graduate professional study or an even study with him, do not be angry, there is no colleague Jovanovic who was a minister of science, that is the definition from the Ministry of Science and that is what is used as a nomenclature. You adopted it in the Parliament in at least 50 laws, I said a little. After that, he says social and/or humanistic. So it's, like, social or humanistic. The precise definition of the Ministry of Science and then comes the decimal and we go at least 5 years of work in the library point is characterized by professional work the decimal meets the requirements of the rulebook. Dear Mr. Representative, I beg you, we are discussing what we have written and suggested and not what you have suggested. This formulation with or/or/or you have adopted in any law prescribed by a high professional cook after the Bologna... In every one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97005	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you mentioned it in a replica of the library in Nasice. I was just yesterday in Nasice in the library and I am proud to say that the Most representative in Nasice has just launched an initiative of the Slovak national minority and a donation of these books. And what I would also point out is that the space in Nasice is inadequate in the library, that they have no room for the playroom either, and that's one problem that's not about this law, but that's also something to talk about. I regret to say that the MOST Club will not accept this law in the first reading. We don't think he was supposed to find himself like that. And obviously we've all been prepped by our sympathies, so every political option the opposition has obviously been sympathetic to a graduate librarian that we've been passing, so I'm going to be forced to repeat some of the thesis that's already been heard from the opposition clubs. So libraries are the last channel of free availability of information to citizens about which there is virtually nothing in the law such as there is no provision on the role of libraries in the information and digital age especially in the use of e-Government services, e-Government and public service features in the public interest, which is the definition of library activities. Article 8 of the proposal shall be artificially divided into public and private, as opposed to the basic, professional division into independents and those in the composition. This division is not a professional character, it's a matter of who the founder is. Under today’s law, the founder of an independent library can be any legal or physical person. All that matters is that the library, a non-profit institution, Article 2 is carried out as a public service and Article 1 of the interest in the Republic of Croatia. The company is not acceptable and legally possible because it deals with profit and profit for which the library is not envisaged. A trading company under the current Copyright Act cannot borrow books. Borrowing means no commercial fee, unlike rent. The concept of public library facing the founder is introduced. He's in college with the concept of a public library in the Copyright Act and is essentially unnecessary. In Article 33, you have placed that the library they share as a company has special accounting which implies that there is still the idea of a library as a company that is not a library and have its own specific rules. The library in order to be able to borrow what is fundamental activity must be non-competitional character. Borrowing for money is a commercial lease, not a loan, but a lease. The loan is according to the legal regulations of non-competitional character. Today, a trading company can start and sell information, parts of books, and commercially rent books, but it cannot work as a library that as a nonprofit institution does public service and can borrow without asking anyone. Librarys and reading rooms as a term exist since the time of Austria, is a social activity of public interest and is aimed at describing citizens, is not a commercial activity and does not have to ask for special authorisations from the author, publications for its activities. In contrast, the company must conclude special contracts with the authors and pay a special commercial fee, libraries do not have to do so because they are institutions. This is also confirmed by European regulations which explicitly refer to libraries as heritage institutions. The aim of the ministry according to the national strategy, i.e. the wish list, is to enable forms of action, including trade. Freedom of provision of services does not concern libraries, they have privileges and do not fall into the market. Libraries, archives and museums go according to the idea of legislator in the set. They were doing copy-pasts of the whole package and without being... The idea and respect the differences of those three parts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example. Could libraries be a commercial venture? These laws must be similar to each other in the form of a ministry which is not necessarily necessary. You'd have to fundamentally change the concept of public loan, libraries aren't videos, the loan isn't paid, it's not rent. Members' libraries are like membership associations and have no commercial purpose. The background of this public and private libraries is pointless, but there is a catch in Article 10(1) of the school institution including higher education institutions those under their proposed law and institutions must not have libraries but may have a contract with public libraries. This allows private educational institutions to serve public resources and do not need to establish their own library. This Article 10 represents a circumvention of that obligation, whatever it may be,... which we think some of the other reasons were portraying as the Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The idea that a company can be a library is pointless and there is no valid example abroad, where there are no commercial libraries, nor do the EU regulations oblige us to do so. This should not be confused with the sale of information under commercial conditions. The choice of the director of the library is already problematic in the first round, and it does not have to be a library profession, but much wider, social, humanistic, although it also states as a condition, which does not regulate at all, which professional calling is necessary for the director. In the second round there is no such condition and the director can de facto be anyone and has no regard or minimum schooling for a librarian. What is key V.D. It's not planned at all, and it can take forever. The library cannot exist unless there is at least 1 professional employee, if there is one, if one does not have conditions, it must be given the conditions and time limits to which it must be educated. The minister said that it is a humiliation of a particular other profession, it opens entanglement at local levels and canonizes already existing problematic employment. The intention is to deregulate the profession, which has shown good results, because let's not forget, bookkeeping as a profession in the education system, has only lived for the last 10 years and has shown very good results. Additional education of persons who have another profession is not humiliation, but specializations for those who want it. And in the end, I'm going to look back at a mandatory specimen as an institution that's changing, which has significant implications in society. The current law defines in which 8 libraries he goes, university libraries, one of which is in Mostar, and in this bill the named library including Mostar has been kicked out, the number of copies has been reduced from 8 to 4... left at the level of resolution of the rulebook, who knows when it will be brought. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By then, without obligation, the mandatory copy will remain undefined, with no publications completed. This can represent a permanent hole in the availability of publications important for education and science, students will no longer have every publication available, the number of copies and physical locations to which it comes. It is about the obstruction of the science and education of citizens, but by reducing the number of mandatory copies, the profession that deals with heritage institutions and cultural and educational activities is also derivated. In the hope that there will be improvement in the second reading, the Bridge will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97007	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladoljevo, on behalf of the Government, Honored Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank Mr. Sladolev and thank you for being here in the Parliament and for listening to the debate, unlike some other colleagues, who have asked questions, and when we came to the situation to answer there are no more of them here, so thank you for that. I will repeat again, how many times it takes in the current Library Act, writing independent libraries can establish other domestic and foreign legal and physical persons, the current law. Other, domestic and foreign, natural and legal persons are, among other things, companies. So, where you read, if this bill introduces companies, I'd like to, if someone could point out that article to me. You rarely mentioned articles in your presentation, you mentioned an article. The 33rd time you talked about companies, that's not an art. 33, 32, and there's only mention of how bookkeeping is run. But this provision that we've been listening to all morning exists in the current law. She's in there, look at him, the current Library Act, Art. Paragraph 5. About whether it's a public library by founder or... And I explained that, the People's Library is what the translation is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Croatia is defined, public universities if they are founded, public bodies, public authorities, it is the nomenclature of this House, this state, of our legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand why it bothers you? A social humanist, not a library profession. In the introduction, I explained this morning that no university in Croatia is educated in the library profession. There's no degree like that, it's a colloquial name. Because we have three universities that issue diplomas with three different names and none give professions, library professions. They are socially humanistic, an area of information science and then within information sciences, you can have archivistics, museology and library. There's no degree in library profession, there used to be. And we've gotten used to it. But if the universities don't go to school today, so how are we going to prescribe it in law, then who's going to come work in libraries, what kind of professionals? Please respect what we've been talking about and read the draft law. The Croatian Librarian Society would really like to write a professional librarian. Maybe, I don't know, let the universities start issuing these kind of diplomas, so we'll do that profession when she's with the diplomats and we'll give her the law. As regards mandatory copies, it says, mandatory copy 3 plus what is prescribed by the Regulation. We can write, I say right away, keep number 9 in that article, and say that by regulation, those libraries that some of these mandatory copies cannot be taken care of adequately, that they can prove that they will not be accepted. If they're going to convince us that we're going to keep 9 copies and we're not going to go to 3. However, the problem is that the team is pooring the library collection because the mandatory copy is not regular procurement. I don't know if it's Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I've read it well, I don't know in detail, so I wouldn't show anything here, but I'm asking MPs who take care of the mandatory copy, I have photographs of the conditions in which the mandatory copies are kept, this is a photo from my phone in one of the libraries where I visited. That's where the mandatory copy comes in. I mean, we have to, it's not good, they can't take care of it, they can't process it, they can't invent it. The mandatory copy has become a substitute for the purchase of books, and that is why the concern is. It's not a mandatory specimen function. And it is not true that the duration of V.D. can be infinite, it is prescribed by the Law on Institutions as you know it was also adopted by this Assembly, the Law on Institutions limits how long someone can act as director of the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97009	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. We have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97010	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, we have a situation where V.D. For example, the name is here in the city of Zagreb, it is also prescribed 6+6 months, but then a week's break is made and is then re-named, it is, for example, a specific gentleman who is the head of the City Education Office and is then re-named as v.d.. So the law is bending and it would be good for you to write in the law until the second reading that it is not possible to name V.D. more than a certain period, I think the appropriate period would be a year, if it were no longer to be interpreted whether there was a interruption between a year of a term of someone like V.D. or not. So we see that there are a lot of resourceful local self-government leaders, specifically in Zagreb, in the case of the head of Lovrić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97011	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Answer, Your Honors Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97012	Dear Mr. Maras, the directors are not directors of public institutions in culture. I can't believe you're comparing the rules governing representative bodies and local self-government with public institutions in culture. Well these are completely different things, these are completely two different laws, the Law on Institutions does not regulate the work of the Zagreb congregation or any other assembly or mayor. I'm sorry, I don't really have the words, we're here to talk about laws and you can't say that's the same example if we're talking about completely different jobs, completely different laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97013	Comrade Maras, please don't come in to the minister, thank the respected minister for her reply. Before we continue the debate, on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives and MPs, welcome to the gallery of a member of the Association of Defense of the Homeland War of Vinkovac, welcome. Thank you. [[Applause.]] We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97014	Thank you, Vice President, Minister, MPs, MPs. Some time ago, one of the ministers in this government, a business prone to self-promotion and the construction of his own image in the media, had skillfully recognised the political and marketing potential of the problem of key pets, and in the draft Law on Hunting on a proposal from the Association of Pet Friends and Animals, included an article allowing the removal of stray dogs and cats in hunting sites exclusively so-called. Human emigration. More specifically, so-called. by an ethical method that prohibits some up-to-date hunter, a kind method of collateral scraping stray dogs and cats in a hunting grounds. In this human process, this minister earned a proposal from the Association of Pet Friends, as first minister in Croatian history, to be married to an honorary title of the animal friend minister. Unfortunately, we live in trade and Brussels times in which one is an honorable, heritage and national identity profession, Croatian librarianism, to this extent offended by the restoring Ministry of Culture, namely the minister, that its social impact is constrained below the level of social influence of the less Animal Friends Association. This technical government, under the minister of animal friends, will remain remembered as the government in which the minister is seated with the married title of the enemy, i.e. The liquidator of Croatian library as a century-long of the labored cultural and national goods of the Croatian people and one of the symbols of its cultural self-esteem and the guardian of national memory. Let us start with a fundamental and unprecedented embarrassing fact that the proposal of the Law on Librarys and Library Activity in June of this year was put into public debate without a prior or at least falsified expert debate or consultation with the library profession through which those representing the spine of the Croatian Library would at least formally present their expectations as the only competent ones point to the desired direction in the drafting of the bill. Instead, as in the case of an archival law, the unknown hand of a particular non-librarian profit and trade-financial interest, instead of the hand of the Croatian library profession, put together this anti-Croatian and anti-booking cowardice egg from laws which, as such, are in the midst of an annual vacation, so that the librarians do not file a public hearing. Croatian Librarian Society, therefore not Minister, Croatian Library Society, is called Croatian Librarian Society as well as the entire library community clearly concluded after the public debate that such a legal proposal could have devastating consequences for the future development of libraries and the overall Croatian library activity. It has been concluded that the only way to prevent such a catastrophic cultural scenario is to withdraw the law from the procedure and to draw up a completely new legislative proposal that will respect the views of the Croatian library professions that are presented through, not more than 2566 remarks, objections and comments during the so-called e counselling. References to the library profession were made to almost all articles of this against the library’s legal cowardice egg, including the so - called “student egg. ” State of the art assessment. After consulting almost all objections to the library profession, Ms. Minister was deftly rejected, without any valid legal explanation. That is why the only possible conclusion of the Croatian Librarian Society is also addressed to this Assembly, I quote: The legal proposal does not offer improvement or development of activities, it does not respect the rules of the standard profession, it is unnecessary and harmful. Therefore, the only reasonable move is to withdraw it from further legislative procedure until it is found and the law describes the fundamental meaning and purpose of introducing changes in library activity. It is clear from all accounts that the minister in the preparation of this legislative proposal was not guided by the interest of Croatian libraries and libraries which are not only national heritage but also first-class, cultural, identity institutions in Croatian context. Here we see a far-reaching and hidden motif of legal demontration of the traditional Croatian, university, school and folk library system, as by nature of non-profit activity aimed at free and accessible security of access to information and cultural professional and scientific content. This destructive anti-cultural and anti-Croatian model formally inspired so-called Brussels Directives, in fact, the most ordinary speculant profit interests which have nothing to do with library as such, whose Ms. Ministerate has only an extended hand for one purpose, the creation of a legal basis for the opening of private pseudo libraries as an association, cooperatives and commercial societies, and not an institution, bringing down libraries for the service as if it were activities such as pipery, trade in large and small, transport and the like, although the law on services listed as one of the reasons for the adoption of this law is in stark contrast with the basic, national and cultural dispatch and objectives of action and the establishment of libraries whose services are not subject to and cannot be subject to profit and profit. The Independent Club for Croatia as a free party dedicated to supporting free entrepreneurship would have nothing in principle against the institution so-called entrepreneurship. private libraries as a form of private entrepreneurship when it would be on the so-called private pseudo libraries as commercial companies, cooperatives or associations applied the same rules of management, management of professional and financial supervision and employment of professional librarians as well as to national libraries as institutions. The real background and inspiration of this legislative proposal are evident from the terminology of the law itself, which introduces division into private and so on. Public libraries, therefore copyright paste translation of a chat from the Ministry of Culture which, by copying some of the foreign legal proposals, translated the English term public library as a public library, although the Croatian library community has translated it exclusively as a national library in all its documents for decades. So this is not about the desirable legal opening of a space for entrepreneurship in culture from which in principle there is no need to exclude any activity or library, but under the same conditions for all, but rather about something completely different, let's be clear to the end. Librarianism is not or can be a profit activity. There is no entrepreneur, nor will there be any money to invest in the so-called. private library with the aim of earning profits on the market on equal terms, this is a legal fig leaf for something else, already seen in Croatian culture. This legislative proposal has only one objective, to prepare and institutionalise a new parasitic campaign on the Croatian state budget, so on the public money to which besides the already existing false entrepreneurs in culture, who, without state donations on the market, are unable to earn any lip, human rights NGOs, Croatia's NGO mafia, etc. non-profit media as a parapolitical platform to devastate and a new generation of parasitic NGOs so-called. private pseudo libraries in the form of different associations, cooperatives or companies that will begin to sprout like mushrooms after the rain, destroying the dignity and achievement of the Croatian library profession with only one goal, creating the only way to obtain money by sucking up Croatian budget money and money from EU funds or so on. project competitions, money for which in the future Croatian library professions and a network of Croatian national, national, national, university, higher education, school, scientific and special libraries will be deprived. Who will be the bearer of this new pseudo-librarian private initiative? Real entrepreneurs are ready for competition and legitimate profit-making. Of course not, but the same well-known persons of the severed NGO budget parasites and pseudo-entrepreneurs in the culture with whom I had the honour of socialising in the Ministry of Culture and various commercial mechanics who will extend their catering offer and trade bofl goods to the newly discovered area of private library and profit-making through redistribution of budget money. That's the essence of this bill. By the way, the liquidation of all standards of profession reached so far, the possibility of appointing a director who is not a library profession such as the CNS ESS consul in New York and, in order for the party to staff up to date, to spread the circle of users of HDZ, HNS, Sach, Pupovac, Radin, Bandic, the coalition food chain, the detachment of Croatian and higher education councils, the release of decisions on the library profession, the discretionary assessment of incompetent persons outside the profession, the avoidance of provisions on the compulsory establishment of libraries within school and higher education institutions, and public institutions as special construction units, the possibility of abuse of public goods due to the interests of private founders, library outsidesourcing, the reduction of the number of mandatory copies from 9 to 2 plus 1 for the Jamesian depositary, etc., which only takes part of the law and which we have not been able to apply. Dear Madam Minister, send this legally irreparable proposal to his place in the recycling collection of old paper in the halls of the Ministry of Culture at the address Runjaninov 2. Finally, the metaphor of the relationship between this technical government and the Ministry of Culture towards Croatian Libraryry is the decision of July of this year on the renaming of the part of the national and university library in Zagreb for the needs of the Brussels Tower and Plenković village through the EU presidency and then the permanent abduction of this component of one of the Croatian cultural capitals for the purpose of the second stage of the Croatian National and University Library, the Rectorate of the University, a precious space which, as well as the local library department of the municipal court should have only one single and original purpose, be the place of collections and funds of the National and University Library in Zagreb as the central home of Croatian library. Fortunately, when the Brussels Towers are demonstrated in the streets of the Croatian Brethren Community in 2020, this technical, ideological hermaphrodite government will no longer exist and its bizarre decision to take the space of the National and University Library will remain a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97015	Thank you. Proposer of Minister Obuljen Koržinek please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97016	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Sir, Mr. Hasanbegovic, I have to tell you again since you haven't followed the debate in the first place this morning, and now you've brought up a series of topics that I've spoken about more than once this morning, so I have to repeat some things. However, I must say at the outset, I understand when I can sort of figure out when the applicable laws are not known by MPs who may not be in charge of this area. But I can't figure out when someone who was a short-term culture minister doesn't know him. Thus, the current law that you have implemented as Minister in Article 5, paragraph 2, states: “Insistent libraries can establish other domestic and foreign, legal and physical persons. ” If it is not clear to you that this applies to the companies of the current law, then I can only repeat what I said here, so the current law approves the establishment of libraries as companies and is not founded by anyone. But it's a valid law during which while he was in force you were also a minister. If you're so against it that you haven't changed it? Why didn't you run if you think it's so devastating for Croatian culture and Croatian library but you're imputing us here to introduce something that already exists and it's been repeated all morning. Something that doesn't say in the bill's draft bill that hasn't been in force so far. Public libraries are established as public institutions. I repeat, I don't know which time this morning, it says in the bill's draft bill. How can someone read that it's a disincentive of the public system? And one more thing, which is wrong with the fact that there are objections to public debate. I think we all have to encourage citizens to get involved in a public debate. It is not true that the law was not consulted before the release of the public debate, it was written by experts, there were several iterations even during the former government. But I think it's good for people to report for a public hearing. I always encourage citizens, associations all, write to MPs, so here we are, this is the first reading. By the second reading, we will improve the law as well as any regulation. We can't send messages from this place saying it's bad to get comments in a public debate. That's good. This is about 71 HKD comments sent by a large number of their members, out of these 71 comments 30 we did not appreciate 40. But that's good, public debate is good. That's why it's not true that we didn't respect what's good. As for the National and University Library, this government will complete the restoration of that space, put it in public, move out the garland, find another place for it. They will rebuild this temple of Croatian culture and I will be proud to sit in such a government when the project is completed. In the end, I'm sorry that the ladies from the Vinkovacs who were here came out and I want to say, the Vinkovka library and the complete fund and the library burned down on 18.11.1991. Since that day is marked by the tragedy of Vukovar, it is very rare to remember the Vinca’s library. It still works in inadequate spaces and I'm glad, I wanted to say it, while they were there that from next year we're going to build a new library in Vinkovci. It's the last debt we have to give to rebuild the libraries after the Homeland War, and I'm really glad the representatives of the associations were here as we discuss this important law. I hope that through two years together with the mayor, we will bring the city of Vinkovci to an end and that sometime by 2021 we will finally have that library that suffered so terribly in the war and lost the entire library fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97017	Thank you. Representative Hasanbegovic reported on the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97018	Dear Minister, you obviously underestimate common sense. Not just me, but all the MPs sitting here. First, no one criticized the fact that a public debate appeared and made so many remarks. The point of my presentation was that you didn't accept any essentials. Secondly, you've been repeating a lie from the beginning that no one has answered before. So-called private libraries from the existing law have nothing to do with this legal novel. Yeah, they could've started by now. And ask yourselves why none of them are founded. That's why they set such conditions that it's not possible. And you are now going into this deregulation to allow various and connected elements to form a specific pseudo library.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97019	Thank you. Replication response, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97020	Thank you. I don't underestimate anyone. I, with great respect, along with my associates, listen to this debate so that we can apply those suggestions that we can until the second reading. You did not mention any legal articles in your presentation, but none. This structure that you're carrying out, it's not in this bill. If there was, you'd be invited to an article. And I just showed you, you were a minister, you were a minister who, among other things, controlled the legality of this Law, which now stipulates that private libraries can exist in the Republic of Croatia. If you think it's harmful, you could have run changes and additions to that law or any other. You didn't because nothing happened. You said yourself, if there was a possibility, and they didn't start.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97021	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Hasanbegovic. ... Excuse me. [[You can't hear it.]] The HSS representative club also reported for participation in the debate. On their behalf will be the representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97022	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with their associates. Here, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, something about the Library and Librarian Activities Act. Here we have heard here today that in the Republic of Croatia there are 1603 libraries, that over a million and 300 inhabitants are members of the same and that we certainly welcome that fact that in those rural areas there are libraries and that citizens have the opportunity to borrow a book, read, improve their knowledge and skills. We expected this Law to improve the situation and strengthen the availability of libraries and people in rural areas, and that this number of library members would increase in the coming period and I believe that this is our goal. Why am I saying that? Because Stjepan and Antun Radic, along with Mrs. Marija Radic, saw that the problem in Croatia at the beginning of the 20th century, which was more than 70% of the population, was illiterate and they launched a strategy of descripting and opening reading rooms, folk libraries at that time by villages. And that's one practice that we should promote today, try to be an opportunity in every village to borrow a book, to read, to improve their skills and skills. However, this Bill of Law came across a series of objections. More precisely 2566 of the profession and is expected to respect most of these remarks, especially as they come from professional circles. We see that in their opinion the majority of these remarks were not accepted in the public debate and they expected, given that this law in the ordinary procedure, to go into two readings. So there's no reason for urgency, to withdraw from the procedure, and the minister herself in one of her public appearances said she wouldn't force the laws but rather try to pass the law by consensus. We see that from today's debate and from this series of remarks there is no consensus, and here, the club of the representatives of the HSS suggests that the law should then be withdrawn because there is enough time for all stakeholders to re-emerge, that these criticisms which were also referred to once more and then come back to the assembly for discussion and adoption. The main remarks already came from this public debate in two directions. The first one was the one where private libraries are mentioned and not ministers, we are unclear what it means to exist and now in the existing law of opportunity. However, fear is also ours from the HSS, and I believe all the colleagues in that right to discuss it is that the public money will go into the private pocket. There is the greatest danger and it does not appear in the law but from our practice in Croatia what is happening, it is a real danger and therefore this observation and from the professional institutions of the Croatian Librarian Society was to make it even more detailed, more qualitatively explained in the law itself. So it's not an observation to make it more clear, that there are no doubts like this, that public money will end up in private pockets because it has been happening and I'm afraid it wouldn't have been easier for tomorrow if these formulations remain in the law. And what is also an observation by the HSS, which is to more precisely this article 20, and item 9 in which you say what you say at the beginning of the sentence extremely. It is extremely often in the Republic of Croatia practice and you hang in the town of Senj it was a practice to take for v.d. The director was appointed by a man with medium professional training, we don't underestimate anyone, anyone who finishes any schooling deserves attention and gives him the opportunity to succeed in the labour market both in political and professional life, but it still bothers us that he is allowed to be v.d. The director of Senj appointed a man with medium professional training, a plumber, yes, and a plumber in the library, because God forbid a pipe burst, the construction of that library would suffer, and that would certainly be his contribution to prevent such damage. However, this V.D. You also did not fully specify the law, the proposal is for the HSS to limit it to the deadline because it is often 6 months. V.D. And then it's another six months. And then it goes on forever, and especially in this part where it's defined which profession can be v.d., it needs to be written more precisely. Of course, our goal is to specify and which professions can be directors of the institution, we understand that there are different types of diplomas, and then there should be if you have already said that it will be regulated by the rules, define what the rule is and what the deadline is and that as soon as it is passed, we too have a practice today to pass the law, and that sublegal acts will clarify the application of the law more precisely, and those rules will either not be passed or be passed for 2, 3 years until they are passed. It's a fact, it's in a series of laws it's like that. And this is not all criticism, on behalf of the HSS I welcome this initiative to build a library in Vinkovci, we Slavons, especially those who were participants in the Homeland War, to know how much Slavonia, Vukovar, Nova Gradiška, Pakrac, Lipik, and it is certainly good to rebuild it in Vinkovci, to end the restoration and in Pozega, which you did not say exactly, but I call on you to see what conditions Pakrac, Lipik, Nova Gradiška, and also Slavonski Brod are doing, and there should be helped to have more quality working conditions, to have accessible construction and to be there except that a large part of our fellow citizens there borrow books, take place a number of other cultural contents, which is to welcome, however, it is always a problem money and certainly that you can help with your positions and those environments that have more cultural needs in terms and culture as well as well developed in the cities. Here is our proposal, however, to withdraw this law to further debate with professional associations and all other stakeholders because the aim is to have a law that will define this area of library work and library activity, to keep it public and public to all and to increase the number of libraries, increase the number of people who borrow books and read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97023	Followed by individual debates, first reported by MP Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97024	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with my associates. This very important topic has sparked an atypical debate in the Croatian Parliament. So there's a lot of passion here to argue about something that we should be more or less all consenting and it's interesting how a minister with a lot of emotion defends herself from something that's clear to everyone. So the law has experienced a lot of objections, criticism, and as you yourself have said, if you want suggestions, suggestions to fix it until the second reading, you should not accept it as emotionally as you have accepted it. This is seen from reactions to both MPs and clubs in a way that they did not read, that they do not even look, you have even been scanning during the presentations who with sufficient attention is looking at you, who imagined himself, looking at the cell phone or imagined looking at the ceiling hall so that you have a certain and personal I would say a relationship with this law and with us criticizing him and criticising him because simply a large amount of remarks almost unseen when some laws were passed on to this law, so I don't suppose it's some general conspiracy against the Library Act and what you're presenting here today. People simply said their remarks, sent as you say in our suitcases, but in the boxes, and on that side, we're just saying what people have suggested and told us and what we have seen in the law ourselves. What's certainly a fact and it doesn't stand, and you just got into a debate here and about private and public libraries that as you said yourself and so far it was possible to start it, but here I call you to art. 32. which suggests that it will now be possible to create a library as a commercial society, not as an institution as it has been, where the owner would be a natural or legal person. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 32., paragraph 3 of this Act states that a library established as a commercial company, regardless of its founder, runs financial operations and accounting in accordance with the rules for entrepreneurs. This suggests exactly what we were discussing earlier, that it would be possible and that one space would be opened for one market and one, I would say a new segment that would instead define libraries as non-profits, such as so far non-profit institutions that make a great contribution to society, education, all the positive things libraries should do, but now the market is opening where someone will obviously be able to make a commercial profit and who knows how to develop this business in the future which the vast majority of MPs feel in the debate, but also the citizens who are looking at us here today do not support. So the question is, is it a book loan that we have today renting a commercial book? I don't think so, because if it's a commercial book rental then the question of copyright violations is also open, or how we're going to pay for those who wrote those books, etc., etc. And from one such debate there is no need to run away and to say, you are very personally commenting and emotionally because if you are going to get comments, then you will hear them here until other readings correct and throw out articles like this which, in my opinion, open the commercialisation of our libraries in the Republic of Croatia instead of thinking through the law how to facilitate and promote, for example, children using libraries, let's say by law you make a commitment that everyone who is the users of public libraries must allow children up to 18 years of free membership in libraries. For example, this would be something that would be very likely welcomed by all citizens who look at us that children can have no fees of being a library member until they are 18, which would promote reading, which would promote education and develop a culture that is unfortunately not satisfactory in the Republic of Croatia. When we look at what it looks like in practice, I can only tell you that in the libraries of the city of Zagreb, the book is allocated annually for the purchase of books, meaning the restoration and acquisition of books of about 7 million kunas, of which the ministry is participating with a million and 700 and now you watch, when you divide 7 million kunas into books, let the average book be worth 70-100 kuna, and that eventually turns out to be 70 thousand books for the entire library of the city of Zagreb, and every 10 citizens of the city of Zagreb are bought for libraries that are the most used by our fellow citizens of all meaning on 10 one book. Is that enough, is that adequate, is that something that promotes and supports that activity? I think we'll agree it's not. When money is thrown, once again I will say, throw the money or want to throw away the money, 20 and some million kunas in the city of Zagreb on one monument, and that is why patriotism is done, I say here that it is more patriotic to invest 20 million kuna a year in books that our fellow citizens could read. It is a patriotism for me, not a waste of public money and who knows what untransparent spending we unfortunately have on the work in the city of Zagreb. So that's what we need to talk about, not to be angry with the minister. Regardless of your relationship with your colleague, your predecessor Hasanbegovic and his rather theatrical debates that he is having here, but the fact is that we all probably have a desire for this profession and this area to be defined on the interest of our citizens to listen to the remarks. Believe me, I've never heard of any law so many interventions before. I don't know, maybe you know who's teaming up and how they've teamed up against you that one of these laws is just showing dissatisfaction with that amount of intervention. And what I'm asking you to do, until the second reading, remove these misunderstandings regarding the commercialization of the entire sector. On the other hand, what we talked about hiring, you still can't convince me no matter what these attempts and V.D.s may be. So we've already seen ourselves in a variety of practices. Or not to ask at all, if someone is appointed, and there is no profession to at least be educated at some point, so if he wants to be a library director, give him a year or two days to pass a certain exam. We also have such situations in other laws where people make a commitment if they enter the public service to pass some exams in order to be educated for a job that works fully or when you say there is no adequate profession in that city or in that library, as is possible if they have to have a professional person employed to exist at all. So there are many illogicalities that are imposed here, which, I am convinced, because of the artistic approach that exists in the Republic of Croatia, especially at the local level among local sheriffs who see an opportunity here to take care of their own people. We saw what happened in Slun when HDZ decided to set up a plumber as a library director and said that the city was going well in that situation because here, the gentleman is a cheap cost for the city, and in fact, who knows what the cost is because he didn't do his job professionally and to the benefit of the citizens. Don't let that happen. Be strict, you ask that the profession be respected, you ask that at the end of people if they don't have that profession in some period they have to do it, here I suggest that it be within 2 years, I think it's an acceptable time period, means half of the term, that a man is educated and that you then remove these opportunities that are here on the table and believe, there is no, this is no ideological theme, there is no such controversy, but there are simply people who want the best, and especially those who participate in this process and members are associations that are not to be demeaned and to say that they don't know why they've made such a lot of remarks to discredit the law. Here's a chance for you to do a second reading to make this all right, and then there's probably not going to be a debate like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97025	Thank you. Representative Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97026	Well, here's a esteemed colleague, you mentioned this problem when a person who meets the requirements of becoming a library director is not an alternative to closing down the library, but to getting the person ready. And that's the way. There is a law and since I come from the university, I know that there exists for those who have already completed an adequate study, so it is certainly not those who are in pre-study stages, water installations or electricity or anything like that, but who have completed the relevant socio-humanist study can depend on whether it is 60 ECTS or 120 ECTS, in a year or two, and then we will preserve the library, the higher profession, and we will have an educated person at the head of the library. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97027	Replication response, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97028	Thank you very much. Mr. Vučetic, I agree with you, so if there is such a desire in HDZ to put a plumber or electrician, let them establish an institution within HDZ, let them accredit the programme and have them educate people to be librarians. And then I can name my members without fear and proudly for the librarians and directors of the library, then there won't be any problems. But let them do it. Here I suggest that within HDZ, they have that foundation I think it's called the State Testament, it's set up under the Library Department, and then all the plumbers, the electricians who are now appointed directors of the library, can go there and be adequately educated and eventually become quite legions of artis leaders of libraries, and I'd like the minister to pay attention to those people who have already been appointed to correct these illogicalities, so that the plumber doesn't remain the principal of the library after the adoption of this law and let the minister not be angry because, as Mr. Shucker said, she is a guest here, we need to talk here and this kind of debate is something that is quite common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97029	Thank you. Representative Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97030	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here, colleague Maras, you well mentioned in your discussion that every child should have a free opportunity to borrow a book but in particular I would mention our pensioners in rural areas whose library is one going out in the world where they associate with their generation, share their experiences and read books, and thus make their lives better and, of course, it doesn't matter who is headed by that institution and this law and Article 20 of this Article 9 adds to the danger that there may be an arrest and, in particular, that there is an 11th article that says that the public library statute can prescribe other conditions for the appointment of the director of the public library. If you were the leader of such work and had such a possibility if the law were passed like this, you would surely then, you could put someone from the SDP, you would certainly not have put someone from HDZ and we are interested in having professional persons rather than politically similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97031	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97032	Thank you very much. Sir, don't, I'd watch the profession. I wouldn't go after this variant to put a plumber in charge of the library, and I'd like the minister to tell me that this case will be dealt with specifically. If someone who is not professional, was appointed in the way he was appointed, had the profession that he has, inadequately, how will this law be defined to correct this thing that is now inappropriate to me and I would like to say once again, that, as my colleague said earlier, to define the obligation of education in some period. What now is controversial about the second proposal, the second reading of the law and one more thing, I suggest that the minister take into account that public institutions, libraries, have a public obligation for children, I don't know now, it can be extended and wider but in the end no one will likely have participation, but for children until 18 to be free of charge. I think that would be a commendable action. And I suggest you do it. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] If it doesn't, I'll propose an amendment. [[Subject Petrov: Representative Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97033	Thank you. Time's up, thanks. You should have agreed that the Rules of Procedure did not change, so you would have more time to speak. We continue with individual participation in the debate, the next representative who signed up is Agent Ivan... who's not here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That loses the possibility of a debate. The following individual participation in the debate was reported by MP Vesna Bedekovic, also not there. Representative Tomislav Sokol, reporting for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97035	Thank you, Vice President. I'm here. Yeah. Madam Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, there's a lot of things being said today, on the subject of conditions prescribed by the new law, but as always, the opposition didn't seem to have quite read the law, and in particular it hadn't read the law that was in force until now for 20 years and that the SDP could have changed if some of the similar provisions that had bothered it. So the first thing I would mention, I didn't hear all the debates, so here's... I'm wrong, but I don't know if anyone, I'm not sure anyone mentioned that this law is the first time we've had certain conditions for members of the boards that haven't been here before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, so far, we've had library board members prescribed, that the conditions for their appointment are determined by the general act, i.e. the statute. So now we have the law laid down for the first time that, that they must have a degree study, that they must have a final college, and I think that's exactly what a provision that goes in the right direction means, just to prevent what the SDPs probably, experienced in such procedures, are called party entanglement. We know that they had similar experiences in the case of museums and libraries, we know that this was really often used, especially those who talked about it the most, as a prosthetic for the entourage of some of their lower ones... And that's why I'm glad that at least now this condition is prescribed, which would say the colloquial college that members of the boards must have, because it really was and I know from personal experience that any situation that people who are really not competent to make decisions in such cultural institutions, especially museums and libraries make decisions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] appointments and programmes, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think this is the one thing that raises the conditions and that's certainly good. As far as the principal is concerned, we had this whole big story that, like I said, the opposition didn't read the law again or more, that what it says in the law just didn't matter at all. So I would point out this way, as far as this renomination is concerned, if no person was found in the re-competition, and then what conditions are valid. So far, that is, under the current law, the condition was that a person who appears in that second step must have completed three years of higher education. The current law stipulates that it must have five years of higher education. So not to lower the criteria, but to actually rise, which is what the experiment does not want to hear or hear, or is unable to read, or simply does not want to hear. So it makes sense to me that such a provision in the second step, given the large number of libraries, if you can't find an adequate person, that it has to be, that it doesn't necessarily have to be a library profession, but it has to have a college degree, which you would say, even a graduate study, it's usually a five-year higher education, so it can't be named any plumber like a colleague Maras who left the assembly has repeated 10 times. So what it shows is that a colleague, once again, who hasn't read the material we're discussing so many times. As for this first appointment, so far we have had the condition that this person must be a librarian's profession, it is now prescribed that he must have completed a graduate study in the social humanist field and meet the requirements laid down in the rules governing professional titles in the library profession. So it's obvious that according to the wording, it was supposed to be a person who was a librarian's profession. I think that's how I read it because I assume that the rules determine professional calling in the library profession is a person of the library profession. Now you can tell me if I'm wrong, but I think anyone would have exceeded this provision in that way. However, given the whole stream of media and harangus that has risen around it, it might not be bad for you to consider until the second reading to simply return to the law and that provision that it must, explicitly, be the person of the library profession, although this one actually says the same thing, but simply to bring the ball down to the ground, to put an end to the manipulations that we unfortunately witnessed today. But I'm saying it wouldn't change anything in principle but it might simply prevent it from being manipulated the way it's being manipulated today. So as far as private libraries are concerned, there's a lot of things to be said, but there are some things to be said. So it is true that the Directive excludes EU services 2006/123 from its scope of non-economic services of general interest. That's right. What are these services, of course, are assessed in each case. However, what I would point out is that each country has the right to decide by its will to exclude certain activities from the scope of market regulations. You can do that. However, it can only be done if you explain what public interest you are protecting. So in the extreme case Croatia would ban the establishment,... profit libraries, not private ones because it's not the same thing she would have to explain why it's a public interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means how the establishment of private libraries endangers public interest. And that's another one of those things we haven't heard from the opposition that said a lot, casually but at no point gave an argument in which way the possibilities would... The private library threatens, so it endangers the public sector where the state, where the state and units of local self-government are, etc. further founders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I see quite the opposite, I find it much harder to imagine in practice why someone would set up a private library that would have to be profitable because I'm talking here about a profitable sector that would have to be profitable, so it would have to be an initial capital for investments that would have to be invested, which would then have to go back through probably quite high ticket prices, which, of course, in state libraries that the state subsidized, financed, etc., are much lower. So by reason of the logic, it's much more difficult for a privateer to learn into this sector where he has to charge a higher price than it is for the public sector to simply carry out that activity. So I don't see, I don't expect that the basis of this law could lead to some kind of invasion of private libraries and I haven't seen it yet, but here I expect that the opposition that there's a lot of me in the House I think three MPs are right now, if well, 4 pardons, 5, 5, here's an apology, which shows how important the topic actually is to them now that the camera isn't here. It means that it explains to us what the arguments are that private, in order to endanger this private sector, threatens the public sector in this segment. So that's me, I'm letting him talk me out of it. There may be some way but I want to, but someone to explain it too much, not just to use the same three stages, the same three flossules that will destroy public systems, public systems etc., etc.. So here I'm saying, so this is, this is some of my opinion, I say, until the second reading, maybe some things can be further explained to reduce this whole media story that's spreading but generally, I mean, and I say, I support, I support the law, I mean, I say there's room for improvement, especially I support these provisions where conditions are rising and I think we should generally go in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97036	In the style of President-in-Office of the Parliament who likes to comment after exposure, I'd say you don't benefit from the ratios, 6 is the ones who are in opposition, 4 who are in position, you should count better. Individual participation in the debate, MP Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome here the Minister of Culture with my associates. We're discussing the Library Law Proposal. What I want to say right away at the beginning, I've been somewhere for about two years in this House, no law, no bill has come here that has had about 2,000 objections, suggestions, remarks, etc. If I were you, Madam Minister, I'd be happy if it had come so much, I'd deal with it, prepare well, and then come up with that proposal in the Parliament. As some of my predecessors have said here, you've hardly accepted anything of it, and you've brought something you want to push, but it's an old HDZ habit. You have this thin commercial majority, you know that, that you can do it in such a way and to the harm of Croatian citizens and the whole system. So for years you've been making bad laws for us, you're turning Parliament into a factory of bad laws whose you're a bad manager because you have a commercial majority. Now, let's go back to this story so I can show the arguments because I've read a series of emails that I've received these days, dissatisfied librarians who warn and care about what's going on. So, you're talking, publicly private. Just before my predecessor said something about it, so he's not defending anyone to start a private company, so a trading company is selling books, renting books commercially or selling some information. And it's a company of commerce but it can't be called the library of gentlemen. Because this is exactly how by confusing the public, you want to simply destroy what is good and can of course be caused by the phenomenon of information, telecommunications, digitization can and must be improved. So, according to the EU directive, I said and repeat libraries are public good. They're institutions, they're not businesses. Why are the facilities? Because they are non-profit institutions, organisations, institutions and therefore have some legal and tax benefits, special treatment. That is why in the party Change Croatia is not clear your motives. However, as soon as you push this kind of thing despite your strong opposition to the profession, then it must mean only one thing, which is that you want to benefit from someone’s interests, or interest groups. Do you want to maybe make some new cafes out of libraries where there will be a dozen books on the shelves that will be disgusted by everyone during the time of dust but that something else is done? If you want to make a new ZAMP out of libraries, maybe that. And on behalf of the party We change Croatia I call on you to withdraw this proposal, obey the profession. Because what's gonna happen? If a company is formed, a company, and it is leased, it is a profitable institution, it will charge a market price, which they form. But I warn you by the copyright law, then there will be big problems, because all the authors of the books, including I have a few books, we will all ask for our contribution. Because so far we've been giving free company, institutions, 8 comas. So your intentions are really transparent and very clear. You want to commercialize public institutions like libraries. Well, don't, I was a dean at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb in 2002, and I know how the Bologna Reform was then imposed on us. He also imposed the HDZ overnight with a position of power. And see what we have today. We see what private schools we have to say about them. You're bringing into an unequal position of public universities, therefore, and these are colleges of universities funded by the state. And my college and all the other colleges have state wages libraries, taxpayers pay people who work there. Private universities don't have to, and that's fine with you. So you think we're competing on the market. I really don't know which, whose interests are so strong, that you all want to get through this law that's so many thousand people who work in libraries, who have developed this system that's finished certain colleges for that, professional people, that you want to bring it into one chaos right now. But chaos is the same system, so if we have chaotic things in society in different segments, that's what someone came up with. So they assured us that we should sell all the banks to foreigners because we would have lower interest. So look what we've got 320 thousand people blocked. We were told that it is best to sell telecoms, also privatize to foreigners, so we see that we have the most expensive signal in the EU. So they told us that they should come by foreign trade chains because we don't know how to deal with trade, and they don't even pay for kunas, get they didn't pay for the profits they made. And what else can I get for you? I can see that my speech is disturbing you and you're probably intervening with President-in-Office of the Parliament, that maybe it's in some way preventing me, but I don't know, in your place to show up in town when I get out of this assembly, Madam Minister. Don't attack another remaining system that works very well. A system that allows people to come to books to read education, each third citizen of Croatia is a member of a library. Don't attack on that public good, let's perfect it together. Surely there are things that need to be improved, changed, we change Croatia, we are not critics or populists, but we will strongly oppose what is not good. So it's not someone who came off the road that tells you, it's a university professor and politician. In this sense, listen to the profession, not the private interests, the interest groups, and I invite you to make an account, if the public debate, and this is a couple of excellent public issues of a public institution, such as libraries, do something that will be good, which will be an improvement, not something that will bring chaos, insecurity among people, and simply will not play that social, useful function as it is imagined. It's not the world that started today, it's not the library today, we have a huge experience of people working there, I repeat, it's the general good, and it's the general good of all these years, and that's why we're in this situation, the kind of crisis that we are. The Party We change Croatia, it will not allow you, we will be against this law, we will all struggle to prevent, therefore, the adoption of bad laws by the citizens of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97038	There are three replicas, Agent Falcone reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97039	Thank you very much. First, I am glad that my colleague Lovrinović can read thoughts so he knows what some of the hidden intentions of those who have proposed the law are. But here, I am sorry that in his debate he did not refer to the specific provisions of the law, which, according to him, are bad and can be improved. Because I also think that some of the provisions can be improved, but then we shouldn't talk about it casually but specifically. As for the SDP habit, HDZ's way of passing laws, as far as I know, at the time of the SDP government, a large majority of the laws were passed in an emergency procedure speedily, using the voting machine, while now a large amount of law goes through two readings, means where really between one and the other can change a lot, I think that's a good thing. As for the number... MPs, it's the majority of parliament again, but I mean, that's not the point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The point is, those who lift the halabuca and say that something is apocalyptic, terrible, etc. they need to explain and stay in the Parliament, give their arguments and not pick up that they're practically not even there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97040	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97041	Dear colleague, I know that you are here with an explicit goal of defending your party and this trade coalition, so what can I explain to you, after all, in 10 minutes I can't read everything I thought, because you've changed the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament, that the opposition can't practically say anything. So your way of working is very clear, simple and you have to earn your salary here, because it's simple, such a situation and I understand you. But you destroyed this country along with that other party and you still participate in it. As much as you try to speak differently, don't please participate, don't give your vote for the bad laws, be at least, think for yourself, you don't have to like everyone in the HDZ voting machine to be. You're a man of education, so start thinking for yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97042	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97043	Thank you very much. My colleague hurt Article 238 because he said I didn't mean it with my own head. 238 I don't know. [[Intruder Petrov: What item? ...]] I mean, we're always only referring to the article. [[Intruder Petrov: It doesn't matter, say, here you go.]] So my colleague said I didn't think for myself and that I participated in the destruction of Croatia. I think it's a clear insult to MPs, another use of demagogue terminology that he thinks is popular, so I'd like you to give him a heads-up about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97044	Thank you. Representative Lovrinovic has wronged the Rules of Procedure as well as you in his replica. So if you'd like to talk about Mr. Lovrinovic's warning, then I should give it to you. Then evaluate the next time you request a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done. If you had such rules of that level, a lot of them would end up here with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, including absolutely all the representatives in the Parliament, all the political options. Yes, Mr. Sladolev's representative called for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Lovrinović, I haven't been in this House for a long time, two years, but in my short political career, I've never faced so much disrespect from the profession as in today's debate with the ruling ones, they've been telling us all along that we haven't read the law, as if, honestly, I'm going to admit that I wasn't preparing myself for this law, but that I was actually preparing myself with people who are members of the Croatian Librarian Society and we were actually in the debate presenting their views that they sent us. So the thesis that we weren't preparing for the laws to present our own outcomes is actually their thesis that the views of Croatian Librarian society are false, that they lie and that they don't know what it is, that's the humiliation of the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97046	Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97047	Dear colleague, I agree with you. To humiliate to this extent so many members of the Croatian Librarian Society is incomprehensible to me, inconceivable, although I know and see together and you certainly see how much the profession in this Assembly and in the state institutions is appreciated. When I look at the history of HDZ out there in the '90s. Well, these were educated people here, respected, fairer, as much as we now have a lot to criticise, but a negative selection has come to this level to make a real deal with us, you see, anyone who comes from some scientific institution or knows how to speak, etc. He's here Malta not the enemy of the ruling trade coalition. And so, dear citizens who are watching this right now, I call on you, especially over 600,000 who are not going out to the polls, come out and finally get rid of those who produce bad laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97048	Thank you. Representative Vučetic answered the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97049	Here's my esteemed colleague. What you said in the statement is true. We find ourselves with this law at a deeply pathological point, and we find it or we accept that the law contains a certain pathology or that pathology is already present in libraries because if there have been over 2500 complaints from the profession, and they are making objections to something that does not exist, then they are in the area of deep illusions and then pathology should be sought among them. How suspicious am I of that? Because these are the people who are leading the transformation of Croatia today. And thanks to them, we're moving into a digital world and I don't believe that someone who's mentally, mentally dysfunctional might be able to take such an important step. In addition, the defense of the profession is recognised by your ministry in the Archive Act. A professional examination for the Director is required.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97050	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97051	Dear colleague Vučetic, I can't help but agree with what you just said and make it more easy for people to know what you wanted to say. Well, it's an attack on your mind, you understand? So over 2,000 suggestions, remarks, are all highly educated people who work in libraries and this is an indicator of this climate in Croatia. When the profession, the most educated people want to settle, propose one law, then they simply declare themselves ignorant and not only that, they don't matter. The truth is only in executive power, and there's always one saying from Goethe that says that the most destructive knowledge is taken. You see, this is our government, these are our ministers. They're, come on, they don't have enough knowledge, but they're the most undertaking in all of it, and that's why they're destroying everything they get.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97052	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, a representative came forward Okay, sorry. [[Intruder: Final.]] Proposer asked for five minutes. Minister Ouljen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97053	Dear Mr. Lovrinovic and the respected MPs who have been involved in the debate with the replicas. It's not true we didn't accept anything. 26 NSK objections, 25 were adopted. A total of 71 HKD remarks, multiplied by a large number of their members, and that's good and I've said it many times this morning. 40 not adopted, 31 adopted. We can now have time, we could go taxing by any observation. It's not true we didn't consult the profession. The working group did this and the HKD is not the only professional association, they gather the largest number of librarians, they hold meetings with them, with their parents. However, in your discussion, you said we read emails but you didn't refer to any specific articles, you read e-mails, but I wonder if you read the draft bill because you couldn't claim that we wanted to commercialize public institutions because it doesn't say so. It says that public libraries are founded exclusively as public institutions. It doesn't say in the draft bill, it doesn't even say in HKD's remarks, don't write, read both. You're saying I speak harshly because I want to please interested groups. No, I speak harshly because I respect this Parliament. I came to him and as State Secretary in some other terms, now I come as Minister. I'm saying very hard because I think here we deserve to talk about the metrics, about what we're doing, about what the Callo Government is proposing, and not about some general places that just aren't in the proposal of what we brought to this high house. For if we were, if that were the case, then you would point to the article. I'm talking about the expert exam. I agree very well with you. However, you know that archivists and musicians can go to a professional exam regardless of which profession they enter into the system of archives or museums. In this case, you can only get a job in the library if you are 2 years old, 4th and 5th library study. And whatever you're done with 3+2, you have to go to +2 again to be a librarian. And that's what we're discussing with both studies and with the Ministry of Science because that's one of the reasons why in the smaller environments we're afraid that there's going to be a library degree. You have to enroll in a start-up study that you know you're really going to apply in a small library place tomorrow. And they've accepted colleagues, and now they're going to make one model with a smaller number of ECTS, and they're going to offer it probably part of the online. It's very expensive for someone from a small place to come after he's finished 3+2, for example. another profession social or humanist once again +2 in some place to study. So I ask you, I am really very sometimes both fierce and emotional because I can't understand that we're not talking about what we're saying and what we're suggesting but we're talking about some emails that are legitimate, it's democracy and good to have citizens involved. I went to the HKD session yesterday, the annual assembly and in front of all the librarians as well as any other law that we will go to another reading once we reach consensus. But we need to talk about the metrics and what's there. You're talking about some kind of ZAMP. So you know that libraries are referred to as public loans. Special regime within the copyright system. I personally worked on this harmonisation during the EU accession negotiations, and it took a few years to implement it, now the system will enter full application. It's not good when we're replacing categories here that have nothing to do with each other. So copyright laws in this country are well respected and will continue to be respected. And you tell all the forces we will resist but say what? I'd like to understand why because everything you've just said here is simply not in the bill or you're going to have an article that would say it. But neither. Here I am, maybe a little more emotional, but it's only because I respect the Croatian Parliament very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97054	Thank you. Representative Lovrinovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I appear here to be the person to be attacked, you see, you're counting on me. So don't prove to me that you've made such a bad bill. You respect me for reading emails from people who send me. Well, I'm a citizen's representative, unlike you. You bring something you see by force and I want to convey to you what the mind and waist thinks. You were part of the profession, but you don't listen to them. You say you've adopted about 70 of their proposals but these are all side effects, it's like you're starting a company, you're writing a statute where the most important things are, and then you're saying that the look of a logo is actually the most important thing. You will adopt that, you will adopt that because the appearance of the logo is most important and not what is provided for in the statute. That's your way of communicating, and I think that's it, unfortunately, it's bad. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97056	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Obuljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97057	On the contrary, Mr. Representative, I have here all the objections and those we have adopted and those we have not adopted. And if anyone in some debate had asked why you hadn't adopted it, I'd say. No one asked because nobody probably read it. If someone had read it, someone would have asked us. So I have all the HKD remarks and NSK remarks and all the reasons and all the reasons but simply, to every specific question that has arrived, I have answered. If you had asked for any of these remarks I have them all, we were with them and on the board, I would have given you every explanation why we think it should be respected, why I don't think it should be done and then we would have heard your opinion. But you did not comment on any specific article, nor did you give an example of the remarks we did not adopt. That's why I couldn't give an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97058	Thank you. Representative Dark Taritash has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97059	... Vice President of the Parliament. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Dear Minister, first of all, I really appreciate your efforts to be here today and answer everything. But you've turned this debate into a debate between you and certain parliamentary deputies, which is not good. It's not good for you because you're actually discussing who read or didn't read it. Since an organization that's organized has made a series of remarks, I have to say that we've had a conversation at our club with people and tried to shed some light on where the problem is, how many working meetings have you had? It would be logical to expect when such a law is done, when this law refers to a particular activity, when that law will bring in some newspapers, that there have been working meetings, because you have a part of the form that counselling where someone makes remarks and there are working meetings where they try to shed light on certain things for their benefit because I am sure that it is of interest for everyone to get a law that can be applied and not a law that cannot be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97060	Replication response, Minister Ouljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97061	Thank you. I can't find the list right now, but so we had a working group, of course, we had a series of meetings, but after a public debate when we saw how many remarks had come, we held two working meetings, we moved the deadline for sending the law to the government in about a month. The first meeting before the summer was personally on both sides, lasted between 3 and 4 hours where we identified all that we could adopt and the second after we had finalised the draft text as to the government and before we referred to the Government, which we invited together with the representatives of the HKD and all the parent librarians from the Republic of Croatia and at these meetings we were actually most of the remarks we could adopt, those we couldn't explain why we couldn't and we said that we would repeat such a meeting between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97062	Thank you. Representative Alfirev reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97063	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, the distinguished minister with the associates. Well, somehow I can't really get the impression that or you have something personal against the library society, I'm sorry, but that's how you get the impression because you're really replicating practically everyone, so it's okay, and I welcome that you're here, but you're really going to argue with every MP, proving that library society isn't the only society and they're not the only representatives of the profession. They're important to me, they've sent us their own testimony, and they've been manifesting themselves as representatives of the profession and I really believe them. I would like to say that I have spoken to several directors and more professionals, librarians, experts who are not representatives of the SDP but also other parties. They agree, they actually agree with what they say [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Librarian society, excuse me. [[Attack Petrov: Representatives Alfirev, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97064	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Obuljen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97065	Your Honor, Madam Representative, I understand that we as representatives of the government are coming here to answer your questions, not to remain silent. I really, when I hear a debate I have a need to explain because I believe that this is our role, I respect Parliament, I respect the opinions of every MP and MP, and I think it's important that we respond, maybe my temperament is a little bit uglier than it should be, I'll definitely lower my tone in the future and maybe a little more slowly talk, but I think that's why we're sitting here not to go out with our papers, still thinking our own papers, but just so we can face arguments that you and you can understand why we've suggested something. We have passed the bill because we are convinced that it improves this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97066	Thank you. Representative Sokol has come forward for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97067	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Minister, I am pleased that you have referred to a very low level of debate specifically by my colleague Lovrinovic. I am very sorry that the person who was the dean of a respected higher education institution is arguing in such a way that he is insulting, demeaning, not at all stating which specific provisions are problematic, that he is actually raising low passions or using fear that the fear of people from certain things that are or are not in the law to get a few very cheap political points. Here I am very sorry that some when they come to the Parliament really think they should get down to that level, I hope we don't all go that way together. And as for the vice president and the answer to his question, 238, you were referring to item 5, not item 5, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97068	Before the answer, MP Lovrinovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97069	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97070	Excuse me, what's the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97071	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97072	Representative Lovrinović, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'd beg you to refrain. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Minister Ouljen, will you respond to the replica? No, I don't. For individual participation in the debate, MP Škorić reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97073	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is absolutely before us the amendment of the law and the adaptation of new conditions, which will ensure the continued and development of library activities in the changed economic, social and technological arrangements, so all of this will be regulated, there are many objections, observations and I, therefore, as a representative of the ruling political options, have received also objections and objections from the HKD. In all of this, I will look back on one topic and this is related to the abolition of a mandatory copy for university libraries, so simplified, so far libraries in Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Zadar and Mostar and, of course, Croatia have received a copy of all books and periodicals printed in Croatia, according to this bill in the future would only receive NSK in Zagreb and the deposit library, so it seems to me to be in Zadar. The question arises why I did not read a certain quality answer through here a public debate and answers, so the most common answer I read in the public debate is: the mandatory copy is collected for the purpose of creating a national library building collection and not for the availability of the building. They may and may agree with that, however, the question remains how will this deficit be solved in other libraries and why there is no possibility that libraries in these cities will also receive these books. He would point out that university libraries with these practically remain without around 7,000 to 8,000 printed titles per year and this will present a particular problem that students, researchers in our regional centres, remain without access to scientific information. So that question should be left in the present or different way because a student in Zagreb, a student in Split, Osijek, Rijeka, Pula will practically have one empty walk with this situation and will have one handicap of a number of titles and the question is how will all these necessary buildings be solved for universities. I'm not saying that all the headlines are to be found in all the new libraries, and so far, these are practically free of charge, and as far as I know, the problem hasn't been set up by publishers, so the publishers were quite whatever it was and no one had problems with it, but NSK, probably for the distribution of costs and everything, I think everyone could solve it differently, so here and that the publishers might be delivering this question. So there is also the cultural and political importance of this issue, the existence of written heritage in Croatian, evidence in the past of our identity in many environments, enough to remember time for II. World War II in all these university cities, which would have been if we hadn't had the obligation to deliver and collect that scientific fund in the local community. So it opens this and the question of use and Croatian, or whether the Croatian language will somehow fall into another plan, because more literature in English will be available to students. So, in any case, here we are looking from the position of the Split University Library, and even 100 years ago, by way of a decision from the province administration we acquired the right and obligation so that we have a mandatory copy of all printed publications from the entire region of Dalmatia and thus took over the role of the city and the province library. The authorities changed, the situation changed, but the specimen always remained, so the fund increased and there was a fund of nearly half a million titles, which puts the Split University Library in a second leading position in Croatia. So neither is the elimination of a new mandatory specimen especially in today’s financially strong uncertain time, so where there is less money for books, roughly speaking, here is understanding for all these libraries to put them in a very difficult situation because many are thinking that after that, there will be an air-empty space and many fear that literally with the existing fund they will come to a one-way street where they have no way out of how this issue will prevail. Therefore, if the publishers do not exist and if we are in favour of decentralisation of the state and I believe that this is with this if it would be abolished only to the national library and the exposure, therefore the reserve position that would practically mean in this part of the centralisation and the books that I do not think we need in this time so that I suggest, if possible in Article 40, that these nine mandatory copies remain or that, until the second reading, a different manner of the library is provided with these titles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97074	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Škorić, I'm glad you mentioned what I didn't actually get here and it concerns a mandatory copy. As I read the provision of Article 41 in relation to the current law, but you can correct me, the difference is that so far it has been prescribed by law in which libraries are subject to a mandatory copy and now it says that the prescribed number of copies of the citizens of the second library will be determined in accordance with the rule in paragraph 5 of this article. So if I get it right, but maybe it wouldn't be bad to explain, the difference is that now it's going to be governed by the rules that libraries go to and so far by law. Well, now, is it necessary to go into law or maybe by regulation, I mean, we can discuss it, but here, it can be for a second reading, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97076	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97077	Thank you very much. So here is the opening of space that will regulate other regulations, raise questions in our libraries on the ground and fear that this issue will remain resolved in some way and on the other hand here, the information is that practically this incentive came from NSK, I say, I'm passing on what I got, because of the costs of distribution of these books, so the publishers have not objected so far, I believe that the interest of publishers is to keep these funds available in other parts of Croatia as well as so far, so here I suggest that, until the second reading, there is still some way that this uncertainty that is now present is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97078	Thank you very much. Now it is Mr. Marko Vučetic who will have an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97079	Thank you, dear minister. The truth is that this debate has become somewhat divisive or has become public and has gone in many directions. In so many directions it went that almost instantly I became part of a knowing minority who felt that a definition of knowledge needed to be established at first. So it seems to me that it would be good at least for the purposes of today's debate to remain on the definition of knowledge as a justified, true belief with an explanation, that there is one justification, that there is truth, that there is this level of certainty, never security, therefore belief, and that there is an explanation. I must confess to you that you have done almost everything in these debates so far to explain why this bill is necessary. The only thing that was extra in your presentation was calling and explaining your emotional state. And the promise that in the future with a little less lofty emotions you'll talk about some topics, you don't have to do that, you're welcome to turn on your emotions. That's why I'm not saying this as a way to do this, but precisely because I'm developing a thought strategy on how to show and why libraries are important to us. There is not only that dimension of adoption in libraries. The libraries are also internalized and the way we are going to develop our emotional world. When a child takes a book into his hands, if he is an empathy or a grown man, if he is empathy, so I rule out parliamentary representatives, they will develop their emotions and know how they treat their associates. The libraries are indeed a truly privileged place, and where we will find knowledge, information, and where we will find desirable emotions. And that's why I think it's necessary to have that bill and the law that we're going to vote in the final version not to be a law that will call for negative emotions in a librarian. Because I also read all those e-mails, I heard from my colleagues, they feel like they've been kidnapped, kidnapped by one part of their activities, their lives. They keep in mind that when a man does that work is not one harmless activity. Now that we do or whatever we do, we invest our lives in what we do. Library activity, library activity, is an activity which is primarily geared towards knowledge, according to the adoption of information, in order to allow this information to be made available. Librarians are doing it right now, they're living their own activity, and that's why I'm currently on the side of their offered, offered definitions of knowledge or their explanations and their fears about everything this law could do. I'd like you to deny it, I'd like you to deny that in the future it won't be possible to start a school that won't have a library as its component, that we won't have research centres, institutes without a library which is also a component of this research center but also of the institute, that we won't have universities that will be left without that initial, final place where students adopt knowledge and if they are... in the media to find those scientific knowledge they've come up with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The growth of human knowledge is not realized in the way of revolution. No law must be the law of a revolution that will disrupt something, but the growth of human knowledge assumes that we have annulled the animal within ourselves, that we do not want to be the beginning of everything but to continue where others have left off. Let's continue in this second law reading, where current librarians have stopped because they've stopped in a good place, they've stopped at the place where the name is adopted, at the place of one branching activity. In addition, consider that these are also employees who are interested in their own activities, that they are interested in both defences and the integrity of their own professions. The final or second reading of this law, in which we will be able to propose amendments and, in particular, to the specific articles of the law, I expect from you as a minister who in this debate has proved open to all good proposals to reopen the possibility of communication with those who are most interested and who know where the current status and current state of profession, the present state of science and the present state of everything the libraries can offer. Unfortunately, from today’s debate, we have seen that the last place is the very assembly in which we can discuss this activity in a meaningful, overly interesting way. Librarians stood up and became concerned because they felt that their knowledge had failed, that their efforts had failed, and that the future of our community had failed, that institutions such as schools and universities would be left without a library and that the library would be a place to adopt knowledge, but that libraries would be left without libraries. It would be good to deny it, to make it clear, that we have no problem and by law to prescribe that it is an obligation that directors and leaders, libraries, libraries have completed their studies. We truth in the Republic of Croatia are three places of study and they are called differently but they refer to the same reality because library, library and information science are connected and it is possible to capture them with one concept and what is this concept, if I say it, is probably not understood but it would be good to have that notion, that this concept, here I am obliged to be colleagues from the university with which... to ask him to say what this concept comes from their profession, not from imposing a profession, on their profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we could just calm down, because if we're really company, I'm not telling you this right now for some big reason I'm going to totally expose you, I'd really like us to be a society that we're so thirsty about libraries, unfortunately we're not. We are a society that we have sunk before the library, we are a society that needs to be taught to a large extent to read to which to a large extent the knowledgeable content of the public will be different and therefore we need expertise and therefore we need laws to monitor such expertise. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97080	Thank you too, Mr. Wolfie. You have two replicas, the first line has Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97081	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Vučetić, well here I am and I ask you how and why, after so much, after this period, after these years when it has worked so hard to establish standards, standards that ensure the quality of work and the dignity of the profession are proposed this law which could actually destroy all of this. We now have really one fear of being insulted, of opening the way to undereducated personnel, of no longer needing highly educated librarians, and now we have and indeed there is this real danger that libraries will lead unprofessional persons and there will be no more professional employees in smaller environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97082	Thank you very much. Here you go, my colleague Vučetic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97083	Dear colleagues, therefore, although I am a philosopher primarily, I am no expert in invisible beings. And I'm trying to make no argument from the level of invisible beings. I don't know what the fears are about, but I know how we can avoid fear. Fear is always something that is concrete. Anxiety is not concrete, but that not psychologists shoulder, but if fear arises because they hold that there will be a threat to the profession, that there will be no more work in libraries and libraries, then we will put ourselves in a bill of law and determine which is a sufficiently educated fit. In this way, we will rid ourselves of all (awesome) fears and we will make it impossible to argue in this harmful way and with us such an appropriate way of calling on invisible beings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97084	Thank you very much. The second line has Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97085	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, you've actually begun your presentation with the importance of libraries and I think we're actually focusing on one topic in all of this, but we live in a country where some things that were normal are no longer normal. What I'm really talking about. The most normal thing was to read. The most normal thing was for children to go to libraries, and today we have a case where people in the public space boast that they haven't read a single book in their lives, which is scary. So, the importance of the library is extremely important, it's extremely important in education, it's extremely important in education, but it's also very important in life's investment in itself. Therefore, I must admit that I am interested in working or if the Ministry has decided on such a law, why it has not yet spent some time and talked to people who work in these libraries today and who want to work in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97086	Thank you, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Here you go. colleague of Vučetić
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97087	Dear colleagues, I expect that by some reactions from the minister, I also get indications that the dialogue with this activity will be established, or continued, and that it is necessary not to bring this down to the level that I have previously told myself that his only problem of the library is that he will no longer be able to educate to the extent to which they are used to. Librarians are not the ones who can do the impossible, Librarians are the ones who share knowledge, have the methodology of coming in, finding information, storing, but have the possibility that libraries are now in small places and schools that are places of creativity. He who boasts that he has not read the book is almost as high as the one who boasts and is proud to have read it as if he had written it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97088	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97089	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues I will not repeat what you have already said, I will certainly support the proposals of the Croatian Librarian Society, and between the two readings I will write it down to the Ministry. I will propose to accept everything that the Croatian Librarian Society requires to change in the proposal and my proposals will go in this direction. And what I'd like to say really, library and library are one place that magically for me. Why magically? When I was a boy and later when I was a young boy I read a lot, I still had the smell of that antique library, the smell of those old books. It's, it's really a special place for me, it was a kind of paradise for me. I've read it, I've swallowed books, I can say it. Unfortunately, I haven't read enough lately because I'm doing this job that I'm doing, and then I'm reading some things that I might not have read if it hadn't happened. Libraries can be a place to gather young people place of creativity and in this direction the law should say something, in which I am not sure, but it is necessary to certainly inspire young people to come to libraries and to realize their creative ideas of any kind of art and to some other creative things. In particular, I would like to point out that there is a library here in Zagreb that is excellent in this direction, which is the library of Bogdana Ogrizović, and the library of Jasna Kovacevic, I didn't say anything about it, but I have to mention it, one excellent director who runs the library in a brilliant way, that library is the place of gathering young people, older people, place where everyone can express their position, place where everyone can express himself and all such libraries should actually be. And I think the ministry should especially co-operate with people like Jasna Kovacevic. Such people can greatly help to make the laws that apply to this profession, librarianism, far better than they are today. I wouldn't be too long, I'll make my proposals between the two readings and hope you accept some of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97090	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexich. And finally, we have the last individual debate, Mr. Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97091	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Here I am going to pick up where I left off when I set up a replica for you to explain to the citizens the situation of 15.12.2018. Namely, the Ministry of Culture has missed a large part of its work to the HKD, which is otherwise an association like any other association operating under the Association Act, with it being a professional association and actually being elected, delegated by members or librarians from all over Croatia on pre-arranged quotas. I'll even say that it actually works well, it works well, so the association has really included a lot of librarians and it's spread out by departments and it's working. Last year, however, there was a proposal, i.e. a agenda item at the meeting of the association, to set up a Committee on LGBT IQ users. It was actually the first step, the second step that was announced... It was the establishment of LGBT IQ departments by Croatian libraries, it's you ministers, you know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're also familiar with that agenda point, if you weren't immediately familiar and you were supposed to be, you could have picked up after that because I warned you through the media and you reacted, so I would say a lot with one anger at my reaction. Otherwise, if all Croatian citizens know, this point has not passed, I will dare say that I had one great credit for sensitizing the public and Croatian librarians, so it fell by just one vote. One vote. If that had passed, we would have already had the agenda point of introducing these LGBT IQ departments in Croatian libraries. What's just as interesting, I've pointed out in the replica and I'm going to repeat, to my colleagues from the SDP as it did to you that I reacted, and they're very sorry that it didn't go away, and that library society that you're protecting, and you know that it's being re-netified by those old SDP structures that you're looking at with sympathy, and they're looking at you too, so it's actually a world-wide nothingness that actually reflects on your work and on the work of the HKD itself and on the work of your ministry. Well, I'm interested in him, and I'd like to hear it from you today, so you can read it to me. What your attitude means is, this intention to create this committee, or later to introduce the department, which is what you think of me and why, for example, We did not then introduce ourselves into Croatian libraries, for example. The Hindu departments or I don't know, the ones that are bald? Or some sixteenth group than this particular group, for example. Here's a colleague of Pernar's proposing, for example. for Serbs, for example. ......... That's right, that's right, we have for national minorities or for example. only for the Serb national minority, which would be the same, with the Serbs in Croatia 4.5%, meaning... [[Pernar, you don't understand.]] Here he is, even in some cities and there are, here's a colleague over there. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So here's me not to use all the time, I'll try to recapture. I would like you as a ministry that is responsible for all libraries in the Republic of Croatia, a little review and structure and the work of an association that is a professional association, which you, our money, money of Croatian citizens, pay employees and give money for the functioning of the association, is also known, so you must not miss it more, so you must constantly watch what happens there. ... Associations that can influence decisions, meaning that affect Croatian libraries that are very important, you need to know what is going on or maybe you knew it was nice or you didn't know it and you had to know it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm just interested in it like this, here, whether you've made a failure or you agree with that decision means which one was on the agenda and you support as well as your colleagues of the SDP, or you actually agree with each other, I'm going to say, here, you love. Well, here's so much from me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97092	Thank you, too, for your briefness. We don't have any replicas. Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek will have the final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I will respond very briefly to this latest statement by Representative Zekanovic. I don't know where they'd come from if the ministry approved the agendas of the associations and what kind of state it would be, certainly wouldn't be a democratic state, that's all I'm going to say, so what experts within a particular association are discussing is democracy, just like I've said many times today from this pay phone, and when these same colleagues from HKD attacked me in part, and that's democracy. The democracy is that everyone gives their opinion, to justify it, what's going on in a society, but your world, yours, thinks that by reason of what's being discussed in some professional society, someone in a public institution, would have established some departments, they're so far from reality and regulations that I simply can't answer that. I told you that when you had that press conference, that's what I'm answering to you now. So this is about the work of the HKD and the topic, they open a whole series of topics, here's yesterday's meeting that they opened was about the role of libraries in achieving sustainable development goals, on providing, on the availability of library services and on the inclusion of library services just taking care of excluded groups, minorities, different societies of poor citizens etc.. I will try to sum up in my final word because I have taken the floor many times during the debate. I will repeat the law was made, the bill was made in agreement with the profession, now we have chronology here, on September 4th we started a meeting with representatives of the study in the Republic of Croatia from the field of information and communication sciences in September 2017 just to try to get to that one unique title, some titles that we could include in the law which covered all these different cathedrals, this dialogue lasted until the Law was referred to in public debate and we did not find some term that would be an example. The librarian covered all of this without being able to put it into the law, so we went with the saying that we went with it. After that, in September 2017, we had our first meeting at the Ministry of Culture with the directors of the county parent libraries to gather their views and then we joined the bill of law, working on a draft law in a working group where the librarians who were members and members of the HKD and other professional associations were sitting again. After we saw that there were major reactions to the public debate, as I say again, we had a whole series of meetings, Ms. Jeckov mentioned on July 10th about minority libraries, 12 July meeting with members of the working group and members of the HKD, the head director of NSK and directors of the Zagreb City Library as the largest system. On July 20th, the meeting lasted for hours, meeting with representatives of the head of the county parent services, the NSK library office, the working group and the HKD. On August 28th, after working again during the summer, because it was repeatedly mentioned here that we had put the law on public debate during the annual holidays and was at 6 months, so at the 8th month, after which we met again with representatives of HKD, all the matriarchs, NSK and working groups, and especially in early September with representatives of the heritage libraries. For this first reading, were we able to adopt all the comments? We didn't. This is the first reading. We said we'd listen to what is said in the Croatian Parliament. But I made it very clear, most of the remarks we could adopt. And there's a record about it that came up with the bill. And I hope that when we come with a united, with a final proposal to another reading that we will go through these remarks and that we will then hear from the MPs if some concrete remark that we have been able to follow and we are not to be warned about this specifically and not to actually have a situation where we ignore the whole process and where it is constantly imposed that we have not listened to the profession. So we wanted to make that very clear. What is important to us by this law is to raise standards, by introducing higher standards for members of the Board of Directors, by strengthening the system of parenthood, by defining the precise standards that are brought back to the proposal of the Library Council and the NSK for National Libraries through one pillar, for the system of education through the second pillar, in accordance with the Ministry of Science and Education. We are introducing according to the first national programme for the development of library activities. It will be adopted by the government, committed to it as it will be with the system and archives and museums. So far, we have not had a view of these activities united or strategically. Every founder actually did the best he could. But now we're going to create a system in which we're going to determine our priorities. This is very important and meeting the planning of the next financial perspective we must ensure that both the library system and archives and museums are one that we can finance in part and structural funds. It is not good that today's libraries and archives and museums, if not in function of tourism, can be refurbished exclusively by budgetary means. So that's why we care about these strategic documents. The question of encouraging reading is the absolute focus of our government in general in the field of cultural policy, the development of audiences, the increase of cultural participation and in this context and the reading strategy that we adopted last year at 11 months in the Government, we have brought an action plan, we have started to implement, we have provided initial funding from the budget on the subject of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science, and now, over a few weeks, we are going to launch competitions from the European Social Fund 50 million kuna, through which we will round up the Biblical network of the Republic of Croatia and reopen new funding channels to the libraries so that we can attract citizens and that we can raise the percentage of those who read. It is important for us as a society, it may be the most important for the development of our society and there is a key role for libraries. They do it and now, they do it well and they do it perhaps the best of all institutions in the system of culture. We will now give them the opportunity to, to get even more resources and even better conditions to work on it. The strategy of encouraging reading and increasing reading increases the number of people reading, our citizens reading it is crucial for our society in general. The question of a mandatory specimen, how important this question is, and sensitively, I will illustrate to the team that, for example, There is a special law in the neighbouring country of Slovenia. As important as that question is, listening to today's debate, it's one of the few articles that we've heard very specific comments on, and I've already said in one of the previous reactions that we're going to respect this fear that has proved to be the way it is now that we're going to reduce the number of mandatory copies, we're going to keep the number as it is now, and we're going to give the libraries what they don't need and what they don't have the storage conditions not to accept it. We will find one such model, and I think it will convince all those who think it is the intention of this proposal to reduce the number of books and publications and press releases that enter into the mandatory copy. The intention is second, to reduce the number of especially what burdens these libraries, therefore, the daily press that can be taught in the digital version, therefore, there is no need to suffer and so on and so on. As for the terms of directors, I have explained it several times during the morning, and I will not now take your precious time, we will certainly see with the Ministry of Science whether there is any way that given this diversity of diploma we give some common denominator to the library profession, you see, here is the first meeting of 4 September 2017 we have not come to a solution today. Finally, I would just once again like to say the intention of this law is that what is good, what the standards are being achieved, (to preserve the measure), to preserve the network of national libraries in the first order, to strengthen the position of libraries within the Science and Education system, to allow for the fact that through the standards that the profession is constantly improving this activity, to open up the possibility of both digital lending and the creation of digital collections, to include in a better way those libraries that have now been completely out of line if they can say the system of supervision through parenthood, and these are the libraries in the composition of the older nomenclature, so the heritage of the library, the special library, to give them a much stronger framework through parenthood precisely so that we can be able to support the development of activities through such system. Libraries are no matter what we perceive them and sometimes we may remember a little bit nostalgically as one of the representatives and the smell of childhood, libraries are, along with their physical form of institution in culture, which provide increasingly diverse institutions, services, and in the sense of this law must offer such a framework to be recognized truly as the key centres of culture, if they can say and education especially in small areas. And I am convinced that when we pass the final bill before this high house, we will actually be able to convince you that there is a legal text in front of you that does not go under the standards that we have reached so far, but on the contrary, it also adapts that standard and legal framework to the needs of today's time and opportunities offered in providing library services today. I thank all MPs and MPs who have had concrete objections to the article, to certain articles of the law, and of course I believe that neither of those who have been abstentions today when we pass the law in the final proposal will be able to support it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97094	Thank you, Madam Minister. We have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97095	Your Honor, you said you wouldn't interfere with the Association. This isn't the Pet Fans' Association. This is the Croatian Librarian Society to which you give money and which affects the system of libraries in the Republic of Croatia. So, I can't believe what we've heard here at all, but to be clear, so 15 others came out, there was a session, and a month before that came out the agenda that said: meaning setting up a task force for LGBTIQ person within the department of the National Library, so look at the little agenda, if you're not, I can't believe that you're still justify it, so at one point take a nap with the ashes, so say, I didn't know, I should know or be the face of the SDP colleagues who aren't there, so none of them will be very glad to hear that you're here. Just be brave like that and say one thing or the other. ...and you didn't say either of them, and you didn't say either of them, but you said you weren't interested in it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic.]] but it is the democratic right of every organization to do whatever it wills, [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic, time, time.]] I'm sorry, he's doing what he wants. [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97096	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97097	Thank you. I replied to Mr. Zekanovic that according to the Associations Act in the Democratic State, the Associations independently decide on their agenda. I would not like to be a minister and certainly would not be a minister in a state where some of the ministers prescribe what they will put on their agenda because it is not a democratic state. They can discuss anything, it's their democratic right, and it's known how, by the way, the system of national libraries changes. It changes laws among other things like the one we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97098	Thank you. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97099	Minister Obuljen, you're telling us about some democracy, but a well-known comedian, Željko Pervan, says that just after a satirical contribution to you in the main role, he's lost his show on HRT, so I'm wondering, do you think you have anything to do with it, or did you have anything to do with it? There's a suspicion that you've just done censorship on state television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97100	Although it had nothing to do with the libraries, I'll ask, then there won't be an answer. Thank you very much. And in the end, we have Mr. Mader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97101	Thank you. Dear Minister, you mentioned libraries in rural areas. I don't know how much you're familiar with how the libraries work in smaller rural areas at all, here, as a longtime unit leader of local self-government, we have a small library that's not unfortunately or registered, where a librarian works part-time, comes on Sundays to publish a book so I appeal to you to invest more and pay attention to the small libraries of local self-government units and you mentioned the Bibles, but I thought, I know that the local self-government unit practically has a contract with the library to pay for the arrival of the Bible, so I also think it would be okay that it doesn't go to local self-government units because the units that have the funds can pay for it, but I think it would be good to still finance it in another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97102	Would you like to answer? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97103	Dear Mr. Representative, I can only say that I agree with you and that I am sorry that you have not been involved in the debate before, because one large part of the amendments to this bill apply to such libraries, I worked in the Ministry of Culture system back in the '90s, and with the Minister at the time visited almost every library in the Republic of Croatia, we carried books, followed their work, and indeed if you read these parts against which there were a lot of reactions, they go exactly to save and help raise or preserve such small books in small areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97104	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97105	Proposal for a law on libraries and library activities, first reading of P.Z. No. 431. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Libraryes and Library Activities is hereby adopted and 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 77 for, 3 abstentions and 19 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:12 A.M.]] The agenda item is: - Proposal to launch a trust issue with Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia; they are proposing 31 MPs and a representative based on Article 125(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the debate will be held in accordance with Article 125, paragraphs 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This proposal was made clear by the government. First, I will ask the proposing representatives to further explain the proposal. On behalf of the promoter, Ines Strena Linić, colleague Zeljko Jovanovic and counterpart Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97107	Mr. Kujundzic's health department, the Honorable Chairman. In a few words, I'd like to explain this impeachment of ours. So we are here because, as an opposition, we have jointly applied for the impeachment of the worst minister of this government, Minister of Health Mr. Kujundzic. Today we are here to ask you again loudly, Prime Minister, is it in your interest for citizens to be healthy? Because you're always saying that you're above all interested in citizens. The responsibility of every country, including ours, must be to ensure available healthcare for all its citizens and in all parts of Croatia as it says in our Constitution. And that is why, after today's debate, I hope that you and the citizens of Croatia will be able to answer the question whether Minister Kujundzic deliberately destroys the system or just doesn't know it. And that's why for the first time a complete opposition has gathered around one recall, recalling the worst minister in your government what most of your citizens and the worst health minister so far knows what all the sick and all of us who work in the health system know. It is likely that all those outside HDZ who support this government and we will bring this out today are also aware of this because this impeachment depends on their hands. All of them should also return and live in their environments and continue to be treated in the system knowing that they are supporting the minister who has done one great nothing so far, he has failed to manage health care. The government can reject all the allegations from the proposal to raise the issue of trust, Prof. Dr. Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health, can say they are unfounded and unfounded. The government can stick its head in the sand and refuse this reasoned and reasonable request to recall the Minister of Health. The government can also point out that there is no basis for a vote of mistrust for the health minister. But in this way, the government shows its irresponsible and harmful attitude towards patients, doctors and nurses, or to the public health system in general and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If the government behaves this way, then we conclude that what is not good in public health, especially bad organisation and poor functioning is not only a problem for the government and that it does not want to solve what bothers both professions and patients. Unfortunately, it is a problem that obviously exists, which is not made up and everyone is talking about both medical staff and patients and citizens. Only the government thinks differently from its citizens, and in this way unfortunately confirms it. You've all read the government's response to our recall. In this way, instead of our request being the first step in solving the problem with the new Minister of Government, which is legitimately expected to do so, the shift of the best in public health is halting. The question arises as to what is the next step in the collapse of public health. We are witnessing that the level and quality of healthcare as well as the waiting time for certain diagnostic and curative actions vary significantly in various parts of our country. And that the concept of availability of healthcare is not equal to the concept of availability of quality health care. Some groups of patients, e.g. People with multiple sclerosis are discriminated against for waiting for treatment to begin or after a certain adult life means 55 years no longer being treated. We are witnessing situations where it hesitates to introduce innovative treatments for certain groups of sick people and children, resulting in situations of public pressure on the health administration and the introduction of such treatments ultimately turns out to be an act of mercy rather than the exercise of citizens' rights to treatment and health care. I must remind myself that so far in the long 28 years of Croatia's state we have had 13 rehabilitations and that we have witnessed several attempts to reform the health system which were either deep and systematic but not implemented because of the change in political power or were partial and it has not been considered how changes in one segment of the system affect all other stakeholders of the same system. We no longer have time to wait for the start of the health reform because our health indicators and health outcomes are getting worse. Croatia is second in Europe for cancer mortality, for which public authorities should assume responsibility. And that's why this impeachment today because we've been waiting for two years to launch at least one of these measures that we have cited to you in impeachment and for which the Government has not disputed any single reason in response. Read the government's answer. For no reason other than what they said in the procedure, the implementation is under way, the commission will be formed, the working group will make a proposal by 2019, just before completion, etc. In the meantime, since this recall in the text, we have said that no national hospital plan has been adopted, it has been passed but missing as I said yesterday, completely abandoned, for example. Children's and adolescents' psychiatry, these beds in that national plan don't exist although it's foreseen by the strategy. So, Minister, who wrote you these bad answers? I think he deserves insufficient, and that is why we have tabled a proposal to raise the issue of trust to Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 125. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because it has missed a stronger initiative to reform the health system over the past 2 years. During the lost period he was supposed to manage the health care but he failed to make important changes in the emergency medical care activities as we had already talked several times about the transfer of powers so that whoever came, to the one who needed it and... He could apply all his knowledge and therefore be licensed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Missed to establish his own emergency helicopter service so today only Bulgaria and we don't have our own civilian emergency helicopter service, Germany celebrates 50 years of this year, failed to establish legal assumptions for improving the quality of emergency medical assistance by integration of work, we now have some partial proposals in the new final bill. He missed the obligation to implement legal and other assumptions for the establishment of duty, again said in the law that he would solve it but a proposal which, we will comment on next week because he would not solve the issue of duty. He failed to implement the procedure for introducing and standardising triage in hospital emergency receptions. Of course, it exists as a commitment and education but of all these since 2012, only 1/3 has passed the secondary medical staff education that must be able to conduct triage. In primary healthcare activities, he failed to strengthen the role of home health at the level of primary health and to strengthen the functionality of the system and extra-patient specialist consular health care while ensuring continuity of care for patients providing basic laboratory and radiological diagnostics, preventive and general specialist care for patients, rehabilitation, etc. Missed to introduce new content into health homes. Because of the absence of it, patients were unable to visit specialists or to carry out the necessary diagnostics in a timely manner. He failed to establish effective prevention and early detection programmes for chronic non-infectious and malignancies because, unfortunately, the existing ones have been proven ineffective to the fact that they themselves are suffering from illnesses and families, as well as black international statistics in which Croatia has become an exemplar of the importance of preventive medicine of the lack of understanding of the modern trends of developed countries in the EU. We've been waiting three years for a national plan to fight cancer. 2 years of this minister and years since it was the first thematic session in the Parliament when we jointly decided that such a national plan should be made urgently. It has failed to provide for the adoption of the rules for the labelling of genetically modified products and products containing or consisting of GMOs. He also failed to achieve the financial integrity of public health by requiring consistent and credible implementation of laws obliging the state to pay off health care to particularly vulnerable groups and the burden that all citizens of the bonds of contributions bear today. He failed to maintain and improve public procurement procedures, to implement standardisation and cataloging of goods and services, to reorganise HZZO. That's very important. And missed. And make payments and services economically sustainable. Today, an overview of a specialist with a long-term work of a 50-ac Kun rope specialist, so more appropriate organisation, planning and public health management, is possible to rationalise costs without risk to the health of patients. He failed to prepare and implement the project of the priority lists he was talking about. a project that was not well-developed and even worse implemented. It did not bring an expected increase in the availability and quality of health care throughout the country., Reduce realistic waiting lists by regular IT supervision by setting up central procurement units, a single review of all lists, rationalising indications for individual radiological and search purposes, so guidelines that will say which one really needs a search. Completion of the e-order project in order to prevent duplication of the order, including the resources available... and the acquisition of devices, including existing capacities of primary health institutions for diagnostics where waiting lists are long. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have empty private capacities that can be negotiated under the same price, of course, we need to agree and try and use them to make waiting lists shorter. He failed to categorize and accredit health institutions, and after 15 years, the agency will slowly become part of the Ministry of Health, they did nothing. He has failed to pay an unpaid allowance for special working conditions in overtime for all who have the right to do so on the basis of a collective health contract as of 1 December 2013, but also on the basis of a new collective contract which has set the rights equally, and to encourage the change of the way in which the salaries in health are calculated in order to make the reckoning legal rather than close their eyes to the fact that many courts throughout Croatia have already reached judicial judgments in favour of the healthcare professionals' prosecutors. This is how lawlessness continues as recent prosecutors paid by a power of judgment with interest on the burden of taxpayers continue to pay salaries illegally in all health institutions. The weight of these outstanding overtime hours is a billion to 2 billion kuna, and then he scandalously tried to influence the judicial authority through a letter from the Minister of Justice, and as we saw in the government's statement, he even had a letter to the DORH that had problems with current different court practices in health workers' working disputes and their institutions regarding the evaluation of overtime. He failed to integrate the possibility of private health and the need of Croatian patients in an acceptable way, i.e. to use and give in the concession the use of hospital equipment and space outside regular working hours to reduce waiting lists. He missed... and that's what everyone's been talking about a lot, but he didn't do anything. Bring the right incentive measures to remain of healthcare workers in Croatia, such as enabling the award of health workers highlighted by an important work contribution. Occupying in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for material and immaterial rights of health workers, for apartments, mangers, kindergartens and schools, scholarships and encouraging specialists their real contracts, financial support for healthcare professionals to work in less developed areas of Croatia. Regulation of the conditions for the benefits of a work internship in accordance with EU rules, the preparation and implementation of a solution based on which the full work of the employer takes place in the retirement period. He failed to bring modern time-out standards in providing health care, to establish a central register, therefore, a central medical equipment register that would finally say which type, which year, number and procedures performed and (allocated)the distribution of medical equipment within the Republic of Croatia. Of course, he missed a quality app for the European Medicines Agency regardless of the outcome, not to send an incomplete application and eliminate Croatia from the rope competition. He missed out on the field of hospital health to bring in a new plan, the national plan we said, he brought in but was missing and he failed to prepare and start building so much needed new children's hospital. Therefore, all mentioned as well as the rude and inappropriate insult of parliamentary representatives, as well as his fellow doctors directly question the credibility ministers as a person, and thus the possibility of continuing to act as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the future. By joining the minister's duties, he swore that he would exercise his duty knowingly and honorably respecting the Constitution, laws and legal order of the Republic of Croatia. However, all the above, numerous failures and non-actions which made it impossible for the constitution to guarantee the citizens' right to health care contributed to the continued growth of malignancy and chronic non-infectious diseases, blamed the undeserved disability and cocalibrations of patients in favour of not acting in accordance with the oath given which is large, greatly marred his credibility as Minister of Government of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time questioned and the credibility of this Government. Following all of this, Milan Kujundzic is no longer a person who can and can act as Minister of Health in the government of the Republic of Croatia, so the applicant of this proposal proposes that the Croatian Parliament make a decision after the debate has been conducted to cancel the mistrust of Milan Kujundzic to the health minister. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97108	Thank you, please stop the time alone. Before my colleague Jovanovic continues, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Dubrovnik High School. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97109	Dear Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. 75% of Croatian citizens do not support this government's direction, and Minister Kujundzic's work probably 99% of citizens do not support it because Croatian healthcare is no longer solidarity, it is not comprehensive or is equally accessible to all. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has also stated that the main objective of the Croatian programme for 2016-2020 is to achieve the objectives of the programme for the term of office of the Republic of Croatia. From your colleague Strenje-Linić you heard a number of reasons specifically 52 reasons why Minister Kujundzic should thank you for this function and leave this place to someone who is capable, in HDZ there are many capable doctors, managers who could do this job, and this sentence is actually crucial. Therefore, this sentence says: the main objective of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme in the field of health care is to provide financially sustainable healthcare systems for citizens with health security and to ensure that all available and quality health care is provided. My fellow citizens and fellow citizens, here I am asking you to imagine and tell Milan Kujundzic is the health minister for almost 2 years, if you can remember anything concrete about what he did in his ministerial mandate and that this has improved the health system. It's very simple. The answer is no. The observation we received from the government on even 13 pages only shows that there is no argument in fact to show that the objectives of the government and HDZ are met for the 2016-2020 term. Croatian healthcare has never had more money. Croatian healthcare has never had more resources, and the paradox of being bigger waiting lists is growing longer and the life span of Croatian citizens is growing. So today, unfortunately for the second time in the third year according to EUROSTAT data, according to the World Health Organization, we live shorter in Croatia. Instead of providing us with a quality health system for a longer life span, we live for 3 months. shorter instead of being from year to year longer. Therefore, Minister Kujundzic missed a stronger initiative to reform the health system in the past 2 years. During this lost period, he was to manage the health of his colleague and colleagues. The Minister of Health doesn't matter that he's the best gastroenerologist, an excellent gynecologist, an excellent orthodontist. First of all, it needs to be managed by the system. The health care system is the most complex system not only in the Republic of Croatia and should be managed by someone who has competences to manage this system. This is what Mr Kujundzic missed and this is actually a key reason why he should no longer be a minister because he did not make the Croatian health system fiscally sustainable. He doesn't do it anymore. The proposal we received shows that neither he nor the one who wrote the proof sees how effectively to manage the health system of the Republic of Croatia, how to make it fiscally sustainable and not from year to year accumulate losses. What is particularly bad, the SDP advocates' club as well as other opposition clubs have not offered so many solutions in this government and helped it, were constructive opposition, offered legislative proposals, of course none of that was accepted. Not a single word of our advice offered through the legislative proposals, through parliamentary issues, has been followed by Minister Kujundzic's current watch. Therefore, all these reasons are that here and in the debates that will follow, we tell Mr Kujundzic to return to his hospital and as a top doctor, to contribute that the quality of health care in Croatia is greater because his way of managing healthcare will not do so. So, without rationalizing costs, not just new taxes he's looking for, we won't have better health care. So in no proposal, Mr Kujundzic offered fiscally sustainable management of the health system. Unfortunately, we are coming into a situation to confirm what the citizens of Croatia were afraid of, which is that whoever has the money will be treated and whoever does not have will be on waiting lists. And instead of quality management of the health care system you know what is the main tool of managing the health system in the Republic of Croatia, these are waiting lists. So waiting lists have become the main tool of managing the health system. Some waiting lists are reduced, but not because they are effective, but unfortunately, patients do not wait to get in line for procedures. Therefore, the lack of quality management of the health system leads to the collapse of the public sector, the benefit of private and leads to Croatia every day due to inefficient management of the health system, because the minister who has no competence to manage the health system has citizens who are unfortunately increasingly sicker and who live shorter and shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97110	Thank you. And now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the Bunyan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97111	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister, Prime Minister. I'm glad that today the Prime Minister is here, that at least he hears what we have to say about his minister's work because speaking to Minister Kujundzic simply makes no sense, he is simply a man who does not hear criticism and answers every criticism with pride, just thank you that we will soon have opportunities and personally testify. In order to assess the health results after 2 years of the term of office of this Government, it is enough to compare what HDZ promised in its 2016 programme and what has been achieved here now in September 2019. Here, for example. a few simple questions and answers. The program crediblely states that waiting lists will be reduced to less than 6 months but only in cases that are not urgent. Today, we have a situation in Croatia that people in 2018 are ordered for reviews in 2021. It means three years. It never was. There was no minister that you had to wait three years for a review, which is the achievement of Minister Kujundzic. Croatia is at the rate of cancer mortality among top 10 countries in the world with unconstitutional continued growth. And you wrote to Mr. Plenkovic, among other things, on page 87 of the program, that you would bring a national strategy to combat malignant diseases, so I ask you where is this national strategy? Do you feel sorry for these people and every day they die at least 40, here I am as I speak, as we speak today, 40 people die in the most terrible torments and you are not able to bring in even one document and let alone do something in practice. Have you ever gone down to this clinic for these diseases, there's 20 minutes on foot in Ilica? Did you see the ant people out there? How many people are trying desperately to find any rescue solution that exists. In many countries, they would have been saved and we had two years to do nothing about it. They're human, what's the state for if it doesn't save people's lives? It's a minimum of a minimum that can't be crossed. Many other serious diseases are also growing. Let's say the number of infertile couples increased by 50% in just five years. We're talking demographic measures. Here's one of the reasons for the demographic breakdown is that maybe people want to have kids and they can't. They'd like to have children, but they can't. Who's responsible for that, if not the Minister of Health. Growth is a disease with autistic spectrum and this is expressed by growth. You wrote on page 89. Reliable Programme: We will set up an institute for children to conduct education and supervision of the implementation of prevention and child protection measures, full protection involves not only health care but also all other forms of protection, protection against violence, social threats, care for healthy lifestyles, education etc. and then what we have, take last week's report from the Council of Europe which analysed the conditions in Zagreb's psychiatric hospital for children and youth in KBC Zagreb. What we have, kids tie up, mentally ill kids tie up. Mentally ill children can't go to a sanitary node. Mentally ill children can't get out in the fresh air. Mentally ill children can't get 6 meters of square space, so it has a tiny animal like a rabbit, I don't know a chicken has 6 meters. That kid doesn't have it. Attorney General, be careful at the hospital holding children who aren't sick, who aren't sick. And that's what Pučka Ombudsman wrote to Minister Kujundzic 2 years ago, and he doesn't answer her in 2 years, so if she has more haughtiness than how she imposes on us Minister Kujundzic, such laziness, such irresponsibility, laziness, and then he says in the 89th Programme, which is true – we protect children from violence, we implement some social measures. Well, that's a faceless lie. Everything can be called that program, just untrustworthy, call it whatever you want, telling fairy tales, this, the museum of illusions is close to whatever you want, but credible in no way. And if it's Minister Kujundzic, it doesn't matter. Do you feel sorry for Prime Minister Plenkovic for those children? Do you know how far they are from you? 1700 meters, let's go, let's leave those papers, let's go for a walk to that psychiatric hospital and let's see with your own eyes. Connect to the real world. Stop being a politician, here's half an hour, so become a man again. So there's the results I didn't tell you, but they said independent bodies. People who understand the situation said that they had seen the state of health through their own eyes and senses. Is that what we pay for, what we pay for, 16 and a half percent, is that what we pay for 40 billion kunas, six and a half pots of GDP. Croatia is concerned with health care in percentage among the leading countries of the European Union. We're unable to bring in one document, we're unable to respond to the Attorney General's written request. Nothing to do. If you're not ashamed, I'm ashamed, and I'm sorry about that. And I'm sorry that I don't have at least a handful of executive powers because the first thing I'd do would take care of the most destitute ones, the ones who need help and who can't take care of themselves. So much for now. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97112	Here, we have the 4th replicas: the 2nd replicas are for the presentation of the colleague Strenja-Linić, and after the 1st colleague Jovanovic and Bunjac, so please first of all, a colleague of Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97113	.../NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Tax: procurement of robotic surgical systems, combined procurement, functional hospital merger, priority waiting lists, construction and planning of daily hospitals in Zagvozd, Metkovic, northern Istria, hospital construction in Rijeka and Pula, financing of particularly expensive medicines, health tourism, as well as the idea of getting highly sophisticated equipment, etc. So I'd like you to answer what you think you're...? [[Adversity President: Comrade Kirin, time has elapsed...]] [[Attack president: colleague Kirin, time is up... it's already over.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97115	Dear fellow Kirin, here I will only briefly, I appreciate you, we have been at war together and we understand each other, I will explain to you all the items of this, and as far as what you're saying, these are great projects, I just need to tell you here I have exactly what dates have started with the withdrawal of these funds, so during Oreshkovic's Government and Minister Nakic. It means 17.7.2016 improving access to primary health care with an emphasis on the remote "debrillana".../unclearly spoken word/ areas through investments in the needs of the service provider 171 million. 17.7.2016. improvement of emergency access, 17.7.2016. improvement of cost-effectiveness of access to daily hospitals and day-to-day surgery. I personally participated in this, and I know how much it seemed, then she was Deputy Minister Tolusic, our Sonja Cikotic, who also worked with a determined group and managed to pull back, withdraw money to build daily hospitals, you know how much I was hired to secure funds for the Rijeka hospital, etc. It's not this minister's projects. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Linic,]] [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, so please, we can't do it over time,]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97116	My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97117	I thank Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister of Health, Honorable colleague Strenja Linic, I do not know if you are aware of what you said, that the Minister of Health is guilty of increasing the mortality of the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the fact that you started recalling Minister Kujundzic from the situation where you went to the emotions of people who later saw that a life tragedy that happened in Zapresic was the starting point for Minister Kujundzic's recall, then I am not surprised at all but I am sorry that you, at all, forgot about the Hippocratic oath because this is such a personal calculation and contamination of public space by such colliding statements. Do you know how many years it takes to change the mortality rate? To speak of a situation where for the first time in this year less than 1,000 women died of breast cancer, to speak such casual statements without any arguments, for me is really no offense but below each level.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97118	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97119	We won't talk, you colleagues must party to your minister, but in the EU, all those programmes, means preventive review programmes that have a response of less than 70% are abolished, stopped and the system is proposed. We've been waiting 3 years for a national cancer plan, 2 g. This minister. It's clear to me, and I know in what way, how many years it's generated to end up with deaths caused by cardiovascular disease or cancer but also 2 years ago to start getting this plan could prevent many deaths. Nothing personal, I'll go with my colleague when he's ready, drink the same coffee and talk and suggest once more his change, nothing personal, attack him as the minister who missed out and didn't do it, and that's why we're here today and here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97120	Now it's time for the replica of my colleague Jovanovic, dear colleague Strick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97121	Thank you. A colleague of Jovanovic, you asked yourself in your debate, quote: there was anything concrete, anything positive in the mandate of Minister Kujundzic. Well, here's an example of Varazdin County's health. I'll give you an example. The Palitative Care facility of 51 million kuna was recently opened in Novi Marof. The question of the day when the construction of a daily hospital will begin is worth 49 million and an emergency hospital reception value of 19 million kuna. It's got a device, magnetic resonance value... Question of the day when a construction permit of 83 million will be issued as part of a hospital in the Varazdin spas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we list all these projects, given that energy efficiency is being implemented, worth 200 million kunas, I get up to 420 million kunas worth of investments in the Varazdin County area. You were a member of the SDP government when a square metre but nothing was built in the area of the Varazdin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97122	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97123	Thank you very much. I am glad you listed all these facilities because all that is being built around Croatia is the result of the results of the Government of Zoran Milanović. So, any assumption that we would have a new hospital in Rijeka today, that we would have what you have in Varazdin, were struck in the period when ministers were from the government of Zoran Milanovic, especially counterpart Varga. So, if you had met the requirements that we have set before us and that in Croatia we have a solidarity of all equal access to healthcare, without increasing the cost of participation and the cost of supplementary insurance, and that at the end of the term we all live 2 years longer, Croatia would be one better country. You now have not solidarity, not comprehensive healthcare with the announcement of an increase in the price of participation, an increase in the price of supplementary insurance and, as I said, according to EUROSTAT, we live 3 months. Shorter. That's your Minister Kujundzic's success.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97124	Thank you. And now goes the replica of the esteemed colleague Glavak fellow Bunjcu, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If something is the legacy of the SDP government and then it's good and waiting list or this was just what was good, it's the legacy of your governments, and everything else is bad. Comrade Bunjac, I'm speaking to you because you spoke on behalf of the promoter and you said something that I think is simply inadmissible, you or you don't know, if you don't know, I'll introduce you to the data, over 100 million kuna is invested in health care in Međimurje County. In the last 25 years, there has been no such investment in Međimurje health. 85% of patients in Međimurje County remain in our hospital, everyone who works there and I have feedback firsthand, give support to the minister and don't think that empathy is reserved for your client alone. Emotions are something you like to play over. Let's play a game of common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97126	Before a colleague of Bunjca answers, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97127	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you cannot replicate the violation of Rules of Procedure Article 238, to replicate to me when I cannot answer you if you have raised the line to Mr. Bunjec. So the waiting lists are much longer today than they were at the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97128	Yes, there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague named Glavak addressed her colleague Jovanovic, I agree. Here you go, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97129	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glavak, it would be odd that besides 40 billion kunas for health care and 8 billion kunas for some crumbs, that's 100 million, so 0.3%, it didn't come to Međimurje County. As for this presentation that I said, I repeat once again, I compared what it says in the program that is true of what you did. So we see a big gap, you said that you would prevent violence against children so that the Council of Europe would determine that violence against children is being carried out. And in hospitals, I don't even know how to comment. You said you were going to fight malignant diseases, we see that malignant diseases, people are getting more and more dying, that's official data from the Department of Health. So you have not done anything and it has denied you in any further discussion of the successes of Minister Kujundzic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97130	We've come to an end with replicas, and now we're going to explain the government's representative's testimony. First, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97131	Representatives and MPs, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, I welcome you all to the second day in a row, this time the theme is the initiative of 31 MPs to vote for mistrust from the Minister of Health. On behalf of the Government and as Prime Minister, on the basis of the evidence that we have sent to you in writing, I fully reject all the allegations of your proposal since they are unfounded and will go the same way as all of your five initiatives so far for impeachment of ministers or for mistrust of the entire government. It is a continuing attempt at political discredition and a search for a series of problems in numerous solutions that the minister and government also finds for all accumulated problems that exist in many sectors and even in Croatian society. And especially when it comes to a system within which we can freely say you who are once in power and today you are the opposition have contributed to the cumulation of the problem of Croatian health and fine, however. We'll share, Minister Kujundzic and I, these few minutes we have, but I need to look back at the start of this initiative of yours. She started this summer, followed by the tragedy and tragic death of a young man in Zapresic, you didn't need more than a few hours and to use a human tragedy for the very debate you wanted to have at the time. So all of your jumping and all of your performances have come down to talk today about Minister Kujundzic's trust, I don't think that's good, you've contributed to the creation of hysteria, it's always bad when someone loses their lives and especially a young man, but the opposite of what you've already alluded, the young man has lost his life because he's had congenital problems, he's had a severe heart disease, and that was the real reason why he's gone away from us, and that's why, of all of these five initiatives so far, this most inappropriate, is most inappropriate because you've abused something that doesn't get abused. So much ethics would be good if we had in political activation, especially when here as Mr. Bunjac mentioning the Council of Europe and protecting young people from violence, when all three of these little mice from the Living Wall fled the assembly when it was voted on ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Women against Family Violence and Violence. Well, then, while you're at it, make sure that when you call on the Council of Europe, remember that and it's good that the public knows that because you're hiding a little bit of what you are, and what values you're doing here in the Croatian Assembly, but you're not the only one who's hiding. As far as activities related to Minister Kujundzic are concerned, modernising Croatian healthcare is a demanding task, an extremely demanding task, and especially making it financially sustainable. And on financial sustainability, we talked yesterday about what the budget surplus means in 2017, 2.7 billion. Maybe I should have mentioned it yesterday, but here I am today. In the year when we have a budget surplus of 2.7 billion kuna, we have the financial resources to redistribute the health budget to another billion and 100 million kuna. It has never happened that the Croatian health system in last year was lossless, in 2017, the first year of the government's mandate, the Croatian health system was not down, however, we even reduced the total deficit from 8.2 billion to 7.8 billion kuna. So if you will, you can also list it in this telegraphic tax variant that Minister Kujundzic did not do, it was done in his term and in the term of office of this government. This Regulation The government increased HZZO's income from the state budget by 20%, from 2.5 billion to 3 billion, so 20%. A topic of particularly expensive medicines that has received very great attention in the Croatian public, it may not be known, and I can see that even in the answers to the questions that we are giving you, not this indication, but the second one, it should be mentioned, that there was never more resources in the state budget for particularly expensive medicines, 1.3 billion kunas. 1.3 billion kuna in 2018 in the term of this government, that's 1% of your budget, 1.3 billion kuna for particularly expensive medicines. There were a lot of words about unfortunately small patients suffering from spinal muscle atrophy, and they found funds to spin, and I personally talked to the first man... which, following these talks, included Croatia in a clinical trial of the new medicinal product together with the health minister’s associates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today most of these patients are receiving therapy. That's what you should know. From what's heard in public, it's like there's not enough money being left out. The national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres is therefore going to modernise not one, not 5, not 10, but 29 hospitals. The national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres and clinical hospitals and clinics for 2018 and 2020 was adopted as a prerequisite for the implementation of reform measures. Two key principles, the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of functional integration, increasing available hospital healthcare, raising the quality of hospital services, rationalising costs. The minister keeps talking about the strategic goal of the Croatian health system, about establishing a university national hospital as a roof institution in the hospital system. The government has provided a series of funds for capital investments, yes, you may start in another government, but without a hint of hesitation of realisation both Rijeka and Pula, and Rijeka and Pula a proposal yesterday's debate on shipyards. The project of a national children's hospital in Blat, the European funds for the feasibility study 42.5 million kuna are already provided. The reorganisation of the public procurement system and when it comes to consumer material, medicines, sophisticated equipment, a unique process that is now coordinating the ministry. Health care law addressed to the Croatian Parliament, emergency service reform, not only because of this crisis that took place in August, but rather in a number of other situations. Many of the activities we are taking and new activities on emergency helicopter medical services, investment from European funds from the national budget. The Minister and this Government want our health system to be more quality than it is now, to make health services available, to move towards decentralisation, towards better quality primary health care, towards strengthening prevention and better patient protection. Of course, there are laws and plans that are passed faster in this process, there are those that are under way. The national plan to combat malignancies is in expert consultation, will then go to public consultation and will be adopted in early 2019. Minister Kujundzic will explain today during the afternoon a number of details you refer to on behalf of the government once again I reject all allegations from the 30-member initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97132	I now call Minister Kujundzic, he has five and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97133	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs and MPs, I will try briefly to look back at some points that we are all interested in together and by tomorrow, although you will, we will discuss everything a little bit longer. I think it is a place where the Parliament should have a nice conversation with arguments, face arguments and then, and then see actually what is good for the Croatian people and what we do. So, that this government wants to reform, to recognize that there are weaknesses speaking the following fact, which is that for 10 years and more basic laws in the health system, therefore, the Health Insurance Act and the Health Security Act have not been touched, so the predecessors have not had the guts to go into reform, they can talk about reforms, and we recognize that we need to change, that we need the Croatian people better, and therefore we have made one and another law. I'll only take a quick look, helicopter service, so the helicopter service is now functioning well thanks to the MUP, and thanks to the MORH, their helicopters are working, and we can later, if they will, a distinguished representative, bring her what she said on the 16th when the pilot was a project with aircraft that was exclusively intended for patients as far as it was against them. The government has secured 35m euros from EU funds and a contract for helicopters will be launched and Croatia will soon have a helicopter service similar to that of Germany or another country that we seek to be developmental. They keep calling themselves waiting lists, priority lists. You didn't know what priority lists were or what none of you said. It is only when this government comes that we start to talk seriously to patients who are at risk, we start talking about priority lists, we go into a pilot project last year, and this year we go to all hospitals in the priority lists and during these 9 months, about 15,000 patients very seriously sick within one week have been processed, diagnostically and therapy started. So it's a reform. These are waiting lists, and waiting lists, and waiting lists of other species exist everywhere in the world, we can talk about it later, how much is waiting. With regard to the incidence of mortality, I like to talk to each other with arguments, knowledge, and not pausing numbers which some here, and I will later specify who said what, these are incorrect allegations, please do not in the Assembly. In the Parliament you must be responsible for the Croatian people telling the truth, telling arguments, and I will show you what one of you said, so you will see that you have been telling a lie with the aim of deception or ignorance, and I think it is both a bad category. So, the National Cancer Fight Plan was made. He's at expert society counseling, last week I was in America when I asked and included a few top oncologists from America to review us. It will be delivered, the government will bring it by the end of the year, no later than January, and we have not closed our eyes before prevention or treatment. As we did not close our eyes in front of the accelerators where there were no numerous locations such as Slavonia, there was no linear accelerator. So we're going to talk about everything that was supposed to be done three and five years ago, and it wasn't done. As for the measures for staying healthcare professionals, we have not even closed our eyes here, we are aware of the depressed areas, we are aware of the departure of doctors or offers from Europe, and therefore we have provided money, we have called specializations primarily what we need in the depressed areas, so gynecology, pediatrics, family medicine, emergency, and radiology. And now 200 young people are on specialization. Just like we didn't close our eyes as early as possible, and that's that people, after they finished medical school, waited for months to compete so they could go on internships and lose half a year, eight months. Now the competitions are open all the time. Literally if you graduate from one of the medical schools in Croatia today, tomorrow you can start interning and not lose a day. As this government has not closed down and narrowed down a little list of how many years specialization has been given, so we have maximum open the number of specializations, i.e., specialists. So that we don't stay here or stay, which is where I'm saving my life right now, I'm literally saving it, because it wasn't in the early years that specializations were planned where people were going to retire or because of their illnesses, there's only one or no man left in the department. Functional hospital merger, you just mentioned gentlemen, this government did it. There are 12 hospitals connected, thus raising quality, which is actually, you'll see what it means, primarily in the professional sense of security, and only then in financial terms. So, unfortunately up there and I see that I'm running out of the last 20 seconds so I can't talk any longer. And above all, this government will not speak as they have so far, this government will make a national child, as a first phase, and then a national university hospital, for the future of Croatia and Croatian children. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97134	Thank you. Before we go to the replicas and one breach of the Rules of Procedure, he would have warned the Prime Minister that he had spoken inappropriately and addressed the representatives of the Living Wall, if he were a representative, he would have been warned. Since these business opportunities are gone, I call on the Prime Minister not to do so anymore because this was not correct on your part. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97135	Art. The 33rd was injured by Parliament's dignity, i.e. the parliamentary representative, because someone calls representatives small mice, and comes from the Brussels corridors, in makeup, which serves as a Brussels chat team to people at the expense of Croatia, and this is evidence and health care in which Croatia is located, because it is more important to them by courtship and more than shameful. Protect us from usurping examples and this is Parliamentary democracy, this isn't a delete corridor and courtship to Junker. [[Thank you, thank you very much. My colleague Bulj.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97136	Comrade Bulj, look, I said it, and you have now repeated what I had mentioned to the Prime Minister as an objection and have extended it again beyond time. I warn you, you will receive warnings when you pass the time, and I warn you of that. Now we move on to replicas. Let's go first, dear comrade Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97137	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, the reasons for Minister Kujundzic's impeachment have been presented. These are concrete things. A colleague of Ines Strena Linic spoke about what the minister did not take. You said this opposition initiative would end up like all initiatives so far. We don't expect anything else, we know how the new majority was bought. And in this particular case, you must defend Minister Kujundzic, because if you change him, if you allow his shift, he will return to your bench. Well, you walk on your eggs every day, and I remind you that the jug goes to the water until it breaks. So now you have one majority, where you don't know what's going to happen in the future. And you can't certainly allow another dissatisfaction in HDZ, here in the constituency benches. You are not interested in Croatian healthcare and what Kujundzic did or did not do. You're interested in saving this majority and you're just a little mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97138	Thank you, comrade Grmoy. Now I'm gonna give you a heads-up and please don't do that anymore. So, a reminder for a fellow bush. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97139	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I see today we will have a sporting exchange in this debate about Minister Kujundzic. So, Mr. Grumoja, we're balancing, so I'd rather balance with everyone than ever come into a situation with you and your party again. I'll be a virtuoso on that wire, if I have to, just so I don't have to deal with you. And that's what I advise you to do. I see you've quickly formed a coalition with the Living Wall, so you're so heartily defending them. Don't be afraid. Minister Kujundzic, could be a representative, could be a doctor, could be a minister, we have no problem. But this is a principled matter, we defend the government's cry, the parliamentary majority of the work of the health minister on whose work you don't personally have much to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97140	Second replica, dear fellow Schibol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97141	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Prime Minister, I think you'll agree with me when I say that the biggest problem with the health system is the poor management of the health system. So it's bad management, and it's common that previous government presidents have always put doctors for ministers, so they've delegated doctors, but I think for a good minister, who will know how to manage the system, according to some competences, it's rather consistent with a certain economist or manager than with doctors. I'm not getting into it now, whether Mr. Kujundzic is competent, but I think that really, to improve the health system, better manage him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97142	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97143	Thank you very much. As for the health ministers, as I recall, I think they were really all doctors, however, it does not mean that doctors or managers in the sense that they do not perform well as someone from another profession, although most of these people have performed, the most demanding management roles in many hospitals, KBCs, respectively, Minister Kujundzic has management skills. In his team there are also those profiles, experts who are not only doctors and thus manage the quality and ministry and health system. And as far as the financial aspect is concerned, there are other resolutions and the Ministry of Finance and the entire government, and this is exactly the example of last year talking about how much we have made the financial health system without loss in the first year of the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97144	Third replica, dear colleague Bauk. Comrade Bauk, you're on my list, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97145	I thank you, Mr. President, I will quote you, it will pass as all the five so far, thinking of this request, I have managed to list four requests for the impeachment of ministers, these are Mr. Barisic, Mr. Maric, Mrs. Murganic and Mrs. Dalic, this fifth was probably the government as a whole. So, I wonder if it will go away, how it may go as before, so either it will pass as Barisic and Dalic, that they are no longer, that they are ex or will pass as Maric and Murganic that they are present. Here's what I'd like you to explain to me because if you've been defending Mr. Kujundzic like this, I'd be worried about him and I'll use these 18 seconds to say that I think that Mr. Grmoya has received a warning, that you shouldn't even have warned the Prime Minister, and I think this is still at the level of good parliamentary practice to make a little stronger argument, I think someone acted like a little mouse and it's not some particular insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97146	What can I tell you now? Sit down, little mouse? It wouldn't be nice. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97147	Dear Representative Bauk, you've lost 5-0 however you turn, now you're going to lose so it's going to be all together 6:0, you can be funny, I can see that you've barely gotten out of the chair but there you are, 6 is 6, it's a football score, you've been a judge, you know everything that's going on, and this is about mice, muscles, you're a athlete, you're going to stand it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97148	Dear colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97149	Dear Prime Minister, I'm sad to have you entertained, 0-6, 6-0, while people die on the road, while people wait for health checks and you're actually trying to privatize public health, that's what this is about. So the debt in health care is such that the question is how does it work at all. The departure of doctors, nurses is such that it can be called exodus freely. On the other hand, we have a situation where the elderly and the sick wait so long for the examination that many do not wait, for years. That's what this is about. And then what are they? Then they are forced to go to private reviews and these private reviews de facto mean privatisation of public health, which is what we will not allow you and what we cannot allow you to privatise public health like you are trying to sell out Croatia and as you are trying to wash yourself from the Agrokor affair, where you were and are headed by the Borg group. And that's why Minister Kujundzic has to leave, that's what this is about. No matter how funny that is to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97150	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97151	Dear Representative Bernardic, as for your thesis on the privatisation of health care, I do not know where you read it from, from which you read the law that was sent to the Croatian Parliament? It would be good for the few of your people who write it to you, and talking points, to let you know from which law they draw that thesis, here, I would like you to study it a little bit so that you can tell me where this thesis of the privatisation of Croatian health that you have now thrown into the air, into the public that it is lying somewhere now, that you elaborate it so that we can hear what you're talking about. And these other ones of yours about other topics, about Agrokor, that's where you showed up. You've been around chocolates, you've been around greens, you've had so many phenomenal solutions that it's been up to you, and those who didn't back us back then would go down the water, and the economy, and financial stability and everything else and now because it's worked, you guys can't take it, so rebel, that's the point, that's what people see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97152	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97153	Article 238, the Prime Minister was injured. Look, what bothers you about Croatian products, that's your problem. That's why you're probably trying directly...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97154	.../Intruder President: A colleague Bernardic, who was injured, I don't know?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97155	Article 238 has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97156	.../Intruder President: In what action is he injured?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97157	And what I'm about to tell you...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97158	.../Intruder President: Just a moment, wait a minute, colleague Bernardic. Comrade Bernardic, you have been warned because you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[...speaker not enabled]] Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague of Mrak-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97159	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I find it a little difficult to track these mice, muscles, violations of the Rules of Procedure, warnings and all together, and I would still like to return to the scale of the matter and the measure is a request for the recall of Minister Kujundzic. The same way you from your body speech and Mr. Kujundzic absolutely demonstrates what he thinks about us at all are struggling that you are here with us today, but you will have to suffer somehow and you will have to listen. I'm interested in one thing. Tell me one single idea Minister Kujundzic gave and suggested how to reduce unnecessary costs in the system? You don't have to tell me any projects, tell me one single idea. The idea is how to reduce unnecessary costs in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97160	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97161	Here is Minister Kujundzic, the respected representative Mrak-Taritash has two good ideas, one is a national children's hospital and the other is a university hospital that will then unite many of our hospitals that we have and thus achieve enormous savings. It's a long-term strategic project, I see you're studying it quite in detail, even body language, which surprised me. In any case, the minister works every day, he is on the ground, in talks with the directors of numerous hospitals throughout Croatia, improving the system, investing, channeling money and making our health care more accessible to our citizens. It's his job, he's working on it, and I think when you really look at everything that's happened in health care over the past two years, then you have a slightly more realistic picture than the one you want to draw now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97162	Dear colleague Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97163	Respected Prime Minister and now something personal. I know what a legalist you are, and I would now ask you about something that is outrageous in the current political practice in Croatia. So in a normal political struggle, your minister asked for our criticism of the emergency system, asking for me and two colleagues to be permanently deprived of their right to work. Imagine that because you have been doing this to Mr Bernardić or someone who has been permanently banned from working and saying that I have hurt the reputation of a doctor's profession with my public action and that I, who I have spent my whole life working as a doctor, have been in the area of urgency so that I am permanently deprived of my right to work. Do you think it's a fair play game in this political arena?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97164	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97165	Dear Representatives Strenja Linic, I told you at first, therefore, even we saw each other shortly after that fire at the Lopaca Hospital and we talked, the minister came, and I simply believe that the speed by which you have indeed been an accident in Zapresic has been used to create one hysteria, to question the functioning of the emergency service, all people who have committed themselves, all of what many of your colleagues, both in the summer and in the winter and in the season, are working to save lives, where the results of Croatian emergency services are above average compared to other EU members. That you immediately used it on a U.S. minister. I think that was far from ethical principles. So now you're telling me it's not good what the minister did and it seems to me that it all happened because of what you did to him, very simply speaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97166	Thank you. Now it's my colleague Pernar's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97167	Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, you compared us to three little mice. However, I would like to compare you to another clever and dark whip from the deliverer movie, and his name is, in fact, their rat king. He says his description: they wear suits, they have faces, eyes, movements, so they're no different from humans, they're affected by the epidemics of hunger, wars, wars, by the way, then rats gather mysteriously transformed by working as humans. You will speak to them without knowing who they are, they steal and sell with a profit incomprehensible to an honest man, they deceive the glow of their departments and soft speech, cheat and stalkers, they are surrounded by luxury, they eat and drink a lot and above all they love power. In times of crisis, the deliverer of the great guinea rat arrives, giving them the power incomprehensible to human perceptions. I am a respected prime minister in the description of this, in these times of crisis currently for HDZ recognized you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97168	So what do you do now? By the logic of things, I also have to give a warning and I'm really asking you to reduce a little passion and not insult ourselves at a personal level but to exchange arguments. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97169	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, I see you often listen to music, spin all over the Internet news, googlats, look for inspiration in movies, try to make up for the trivialization of the work of this House since you've been sitting in it. Because if there's going to be one seal of what you've done here, it's that you're making the entire institution unserious. There may be a small part of the people who like it, but it's far from parliamentaryism, it's far from serious parties, and it's far from serious political work. And that's why I told you, just as far as the Convention on the Protection of Women from Violence and Violence in the Family is concerned about your colleague's appearance because you're missing, you're gone. You could have raised your hand there to see what you were standing on. This way we don't know if you're up for it or if you're up for it. And you are the party whose main sport is to abuse institutions. Penalty applications, applications to the Committee for Conflict of Interest, that's your sport. It's the sport of the Living Wall, everybody sees it and everybody knows it. That's what you need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97170	Thank you. Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97171	Thank you very much. Andrew Plenkovic, therefore you say that you protect women's rights and tolerate and bless the organisation of prostitution in the very peaks of your party. Not only are you tolerating, but you're basically a big hypocrite. You take advantage of the grief and misfortune of women, that's what your deputy and vice president of the Parliament does and you pretend to be their great protector. Read what your coalition partner Milan Bandic is saying about women and whether he apologized after warning the attorney general and listen to yourself when they ask you a question, in a vulgar and sexist way, and then you say I'm the one who protects women's rights. Shame on you, Mr. Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97172	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97173	Thank you very much. It already seems to me that Mr. Bunjac is a little hallucinated in all of his comments, statements he's making because I have to admit to saying what you've just said about it needs some doping. I don't know what kind of doping you're using but we're going to think a little bit about defining how this is possible to fit everything into the minute you have. But in any case, the messages of your work and your messages to us, as well as in the media performances and here in the Parliament, is a continuous insult and... And when you get the slightest answer, then you cry right away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're crying, you're whining, you're complaining, it's not easy for you, we're insulting you... You can't do that. You can't, or here, Mr. Bull sitting in front of you constantly insult and expect and expect that we will constantly receive and suffer. We won't. No, that's out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97174	Thank you. Dear colleague Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97175	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. I noticed here a read deficit with understanding, so please explain to you the government programme which was at the beginning of which you received the trust of Croatian citizens, that we are half-term, that we have a four-year period and that during that period some of these promises and implement, especially if we look at the part of structural reforms that the government has also brought. I would also ask you to open up a little curtain and speak plainly here in front of colleagues who have been trying when it comes to particularly expensive medications. To say that again, it shouldn't have been any commercial, it never did, but I think the time has come to say how many meetings there have been, as much as in Davos where the most significant financial forum could have been lobbying for other things, but it was lobbying for the least, for those who needed it the most. So leave your fellow emotions behind, hear what the government has done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97176	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97177	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Glavak, you were also in the government spokeswoman when many of these activities related to particularly expensive medicines and to small patients with really severe diseases tried to solve in a way that has not been resolved so far. We also found the funds, I say a billion and 300 million kuna for particularly expensive drugs, for a spinzaze which was otherwise not except in rare exceptional situations approved by the commission to agree with... financing or inclusion in a clinical trial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means your patients are taking the medicine for free, for free. If it wasn't for our engagement, it wouldn't have happened. And it would be good for those who criticize us to also consider it. We never wanted to talk about it, nor to do promotion, on the contrary, but this is also an opportunity to say it clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97178	Thank you. Dear colleague Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97179	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please, I'm really asking you from my heart not to blame me on one truly well-intentioned comment. For me, he's a modern and open politician, and I would expect him to be and to be tolerated, he's aware of his responsibilities, he's humble, he's keeping his ego under control, he's not obnoxious, he's honest, he's telling the truth, he's talking about content, he's not insulting, he's not teaching other minds. It doesn't make sense, it's not constructive, it doesn't call for dialogue, it doesn't call for communication, it doesn't call for consensus, it doesn't call for anything that makes sense. I'm sure you have that other side, but in your opening statement, you missed it and showed it. And I'm really sorry about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97180	Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97181	... Representative Jerkovic, we had the opportunity to be expensive observers at the time of the meeting several years ago in the European Parliament, so we worked very well together and there is no dimension here or there, there is only political activity and exchange of arguments. [[Specially enabled.]] There's nothing personal here, there's a lot of understanding, a lot of tolerance, a lot of hearings of numerous criticisms, but this is the debate you've initiated. Which one do you want, what? So counterpart Kujundzic will no longer be minister. This isn't the kind of debate. This is a debate where you want to vote tomorrow in a way that 76 hands in this assembly say, Minister Kujundzic is no longer a minister. This is not the time to discuss a tolerated, durable dialogue, you want one less minister in my government. And I won't. And it's very simple, there's nothing personal about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97182	Comrade Vidovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97183	Thank you. In your speech, you have made the opposition use human tragedy in principle to gain political points, that is, the cause for impeachment. On the other hand, the opposition has made it very clear what is the correct cause for impeachment. We are not like you, we do not perform children with developmental difficulties in the 2015 campaign and we collect political points on them. We're not like you and we don't use the same human tragedy so I can even say the political fall of my own deputy to get political points on it, we're not like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97184	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97185	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidovic, I really have no idea what you're talking about the 2015 campaign, first I've heard about it. As for the remarks you can give them to me, I don't think at any time in any campaign that I've personally been in, something like that hasn't happened to me, especially since I've been at the head of HDZ. Is it true? I see you're following well. So give criticism to whoever needs it. And this second one, should I profit from what? At the crash, you told my deputy. What do you mean, I'm profiting? So, I think you've really turned this debate into a cocktail of some compensation at your time of structured way of discussing the government's annual report where you must have remained short for replicas, for interventions, for individual performances, and now you're using this debate for that. I don't think you're right, and I don't see what that subject has to do with what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97186	And the last replica for the Prime Minister, dear colleague Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97187	Thank you, Mr. President. Politics is really unpredictable. On this request, let's say I'm sorry that MOST didn't support this government we wouldn't have this item on the agenda today, I'm really sorry. But let's go back to this one question for the Prime Minister. Mr. President, you like specific questions, for standard and especially expensive drugs, nearly $5.5 billion is allocated. There's not so much delay for 300, 500 days and you see no one to deny the drugs, everyone gives. And that's where the fat interest was installed. If we don't even get into the papers 10% of the amount can be reduced, so 550 million kuna per year, now multiply by 10 years at least 5 billion kn paid to the pharmaceutical industry unnecessarily. For this, by 5 billion kn, how much pay could be increased for medical staff, young specialists, to get expensive appliances, instruments. These are specific remarks to you, and that is why the health system is sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97188	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97189	Rationalisation, respected representative Lovrinovic, in health care is one of the tasks to be done by Minister Kujundzic and it also refers to the price of medicines. When I first spoke about uniting public procurement at the level of the Ministry of Health, one of the methods of how to do so, how in a unique way to have a stronger, better quality, better negotiating position for the pharmaceutical industry. And we are already in Croatia at prices, at 70% of what is the average price at EU level. That means the minister takes care of it, and this amount that you've been saying is wider and when it comes to particularly expensive drugs, here we are, I repeat again in this Mr. for a billion and 300 million. Not the 5.5 billion you've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97190	There's another replica, I apologize to my colleague Jovanovic, we skipped it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97191	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you're wrong when you talk about motives, why the SDP Representatives Club supported this request. We supported him for a simple reason, which the minister in these two years has not shown that he has competence, that the health system makes fiscally sustainable. Not to cut costs, but to rationalize them. You said here, in your program, that the waiting lists would be shorter than six months. Says colleague Glavak, we're in the middle of a term. Here, my colleague got that appointment in February '21. Mr. I doubt that in the next two years, it's going to shrink significantly. So waiting lists have become the main tool for managing health costs. Whoever has the money, goes to check out the privates and pays, and whoever doesn't have the money, waits at home. So you're wondering what the spilling is like. Well, here's the spill. So, spilling, when citizens out of their pockets have to pay money because they can't wait on the waiting list where they can just wait for death.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97192	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97193	Thank you very much, Agent Jovanovic. As for the waiting list, I think we've solved all of our most serious patients' problems with the priority list system. And all of them in time, given their condition, come for checks and receive adequate medical care and appropriate treatment. As for the rest of the system, I think it's very different depending on what kind of review you're waiting for. So some general number about the average duration of the kind of waiting is very difficult to be, be able to say or promise. What we are doing now, we are doing to reduce that everything that has to be done as soon as possible because of patients with a better medical service throughout Croatian hospitals. I hope that we will succeed, and our health system is not something that can be applied, improved, just over one night.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97194	Thank you. We are now going to the replicas sent to the Minister of Health, Mr Kujundzic, first in line, counterpart Ninčević Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97195	Thank you. Dear Ministers, since 1,000 and 1,000 signatures in petition, as well as an open letter to you, did not help you to experience and react, I will try from personal experience. I recently ended up in the E.R. for a spontaneous abortion in three months. The pregnancy, there just went like any citizen who paid for health care in this country for years with full confidence, welcomed me, said the 15th century, I think it was much better back then. They tied my arms and legs, and they started the process of chiretation on the living without anesthesia, so, scraping the uterus of the internal organ, live, without anesthesia. It was my 30 worst minutes of life, 30 minutes, I could convince you every second because it lasted forever. It's 30 minutes of humiliation to every woman of 1,000 of these women who signed the petitions they had. It's the humiliation of every woman who's just lying on the gynecological table right now and this is passing. And it's the humiliation of every woman who will unfortunately experience this in the future. Which you don't think is enough for one woman, the fact that she lost a child after three months. The pregnancy and emotional stress that passes, but we still have to do it on an emergency, extra, physical, literally butchered and destroyed. My question is very simple and requires a very short and clear answer and please don't put the blame on doctors and sisters because they did a great job as much as they could. However, their ability is determined by you, not by them, and I ask you not to insult us. [[Intruder President: I ask you colleagues Lesandric.]] No attempt to justify yourself, because there is no excuse here and therefore my question requires a very clear and brief answer, and that is whether you intend to change this and when, because I really don't want this to go to one [[Intruder President: Comrade Lesandric.]] The woman in our country is passing by. [[Intruder President: counterpart Ninčević Lesandric, I am asking you now.]] Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97197	Your Honors, Madam Representative. First, I sincerely regret that there's been a loss of a child, and in view of the particular case itself, you should know more. So in Croatian hospitals, it is not done that way. If there was a contraindication for anesthesia, you'd have to give, so if you want to get me medical records, I'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97198	What kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97199	Injury of the Rules of Procedure because the minister is telling the truth. So, what you said wasn't working that way, it's done because I experienced it and 1,000 women signed a petition for you, only Peter's Hospital 3.5 thousand Please don't lie, just do something to make this change. [[Intruder President: counterpart Lesandric Ninčević, please.]] I really want you to read this so just... petition and open letters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97200	Okay, don't, now you're taking one very intimate thing out and putting me in a very awkward situation. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go. Nothing. Then let's move on, now it's time for the esteemed colleague Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97201	Thank you. After my colleague Ivana Ninčević Lesandric, this deeply intimate act I am going to try to deintimate him, make him from the level of the health system and what we are discussing today relevant. This point went completely wrong, it went as one way to perform fragile political egos for a walk. Who from the level of the executive, who from the level of the legislative authority will try to show responsibility? I believe that the Minister from the level of the executive authority and the chairman of the Assembly Committee from the level of legislative authority are also responsible, but the question, as counterpart Nincevic has asked, is the question that we understand that we have traumatized relations in health care and we need to answer these traumatic relations because indeed the truth is that women are going through this procedure in hospitals today, thousands and thousands of women due to lack of anesthesia. These are the problems we're facing, not who's going to run the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97202	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97203	Look, all I have to say here is that I've never seen a petition like this before, and there's no written or oral document that I haven't responded to, so I'm going to check this out, I'm just saying from a medical point of view, sometimes there are really counter-indications where they're vitally threatening, where they're not allowed. In a particular case, I'll check and check for a petition I've never seen or heard of.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97204	Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97205	I just think we should get back from the little mice and the Brussels corridors to reality. Minister, the really urgent ambulances are often closed doors,... in Sinj, home of health, in Vrgorec, there are no teams, it is a fact, in Metković, all over Croatia, the fact is that Ines Strenja-Linić and the other councilmen pointed out that you, in particular, you who were when the war was in America, the woman who spent 5 years on the battlefield, 118th Brigade and 9th Guard Brigade, on the front line of the battlefield, are looking for a withdrawal of the license, and you were in America. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what kind of act did she warn you about the catastrophic state of emergency and women dying in order to wait for the ultrasound of the breast, the number of deaths, is in Sinj case one, Sinjani case, so check but you believe the Fallen and those they destroyed, not the person who spent 5 years in the Homeland War in emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97206	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97207	Mr. Representative, in your Sinj, they would say “not mix frogs and grandmothers, ” this time the frogs and the grandmothers, about the war when he started, what he was doing, where he was before the war and who got tired of the war, we'll talk about it on another topic, and I'll be happy to talk about it. In this case, on the accident in Zapresic, it is medicine, so the esteemed representative then took advantage of what she was not allowed to do as a doctor, she made medically said vicium artis. So not knowing why a young man died, she ran into a political space and actually committed, I didn't just start to take away her life license, but I started a crime because she was expelled from criminal law. So these are the terrible things that she and Mr. Petrov did and Mr. Jovanovic defended her, and that will still be said by the medical chamber and the Croatian judiciary because these are things that are much deeper than such superficial analysis that some here use.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97208	Dear colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97209	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, you should be congratulated, not attacked, congratulated, for you have really made health care available to every patient especially those in the rural area. Congratulations because more than 100,000 citizens at this time do not know which family doctor to apply for because they are not there, 56 teams in Croatia are without carriers, without family medicine doctors. Only in Brod-Posavina County more than 6. 600 doctors left Croatia, 1200 announced, raised papers, in 10 years over 4000 of them retired and should be congratulated on a terriblely good proposal that you have suggested to solve such a problem, that a doctor from a van like those who share bread goes through the village, whistles and shares aspirin and apaurin. That's your solution to health care, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97210	The minister's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97211	Thank you very much for your discussion and in fact you've opened another topic, you've opened up one topic for those who know, those who know, I'm talking now about deprived areas, poorly populated, where we have a problem that you've partially defined, we have few patients, they're scattered across the territory of Croatia and they're hard to reach. And on this trail of what the Nordic countries have done, which have a similar problem, which now works successfully for China, very successfully doing, we have provided for the new law the following possibility that so far has not been, that one doctor can work in more offices, so far it has not been possible to stay on the territory where he is and have enough patients and be close to them, and so on, so on. Cell phones. So, it's not invented by Kujundzic and this government, it's already proven successful in the world, and whenever you want, I'll give you the literature and read a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97212	Dear fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97213	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you've heard the charges on your own account and being saddened by me, most strongly from the ranks of your health colleagues. The fact is they took advantage of a certain moment and tried to put everything on your back by running away from themselves and their own responsibilities. They even rested on your back as much as I heard the question of helicopter service. We remember one of the promoters who argued that the helicopter service was carried out by an Italian company that was here in a project pilot contracted by the SDP and which broke up several months later as an estimate that it was expensive. We have a few options, so it's the MORH, that it's a foreign company for us or that it's doing our somehow established system. Tell me what you're doing about it and can we expect a different relationship in terms of the urgency of transport in the future compared to what we have now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97214	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97215	Thank you very much. In fact, a distant history is said historians can read mostly close and you can see what anyone said two years ago and why they're standing up for it. This government has arranged to check that within the golden hour whenever necessary, helicopters arrive and transport patients. What this government has prepared, we are aware that what we have now with Morh and the MUP is actually good but we cannot charge foreign citizens. And that's why we've secured 35 million euros from which helicopters will be purchased and we'll have what the countries of Austria have and beyond. And the second thing that this government has done, we've secured and we've got an invitation to tender a boat, fast boats for transporting patients from the island, we haven't forgotten that golden watch, and the third call for an analysis, for those who may know a little less about medicine, that trend will be able to doctor in Losinj or down on Vis to make troponin or D-dimer and see if it's an embolism of the lungs, whether it's a heart attack, whether it's supposed to lift a helicopter and fly towards Split, River or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97217	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, you mentioned two extremely important activities that may not be sufficiently highlighted, which should be particularly highlighted. The first is investment in a series, hundreds of new specializations and the second is national children's hospitals. Both actually means investing in our future, investing in people. Investment in child care is of course extremely important for future generations but it is also important to invest in specialization, because they allow the highest quality young experts to stay in Croatia, get a job here with us, can be perfected not to go out. Now, I'm curious about the state of you when you became Minister, especially when I listen to these righteous outflows on the other side of the assembly, so I'm curious about what they left for you. Let's just say that I know what was left in science where in three years, practically no new young man had entered the system and hundreds of people with potential quality young scientists had to go outside. Well, here's what I'm curious about what they did in your system, but I'm saying I know what they did in Mr. Jovanovic's system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97218	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97219	I don't actually belong to a group of people who like to throw mud and especially not to predecessors. Everything my predecessors have done well, I commend and continue what is good. But there really are a lot of things that need to be fixed, and that's why this kind of debate here, the disaster has happened since this government. There's been no disaster. I'm basically following the medical rule of the night, not harming myself. And secondly, I stick to the rule of sociological, what's the law, the law is true, if the law isn't right, change it. So this government changes, repairs the laws, and we change the system. We're really going to reform and we're not going populist and we're not going promising. And we've found a lot of problems, we've removed many of them, and we're going to continue with others, and we won't. We did not close our eyes nor at cost, in fact we do great savings with functional hospital mergers, we work with the price of medicines and we will especially do the most where we can in Zagreb with a new university hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97220	Thank you. My colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97221	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Government. Dear Ministers, today you are called upon to make insufficient efforts to provide an equally accessible and quality health care service for all residents of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask a question on behalf of my county and all inhabitants of Sibenik-Knin County whose General Hospital Sibenik, unfortunately there is still no device for magnetic resonance and must use private clinic services. The signatories of yours today, the launch of this initiative and your recall of their government have done absolutely nothing about it, so my question to you is what can I expect the citizens of Sibenik-Knin County and those other centres whose hospitals still have no magnetic resonance device.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97222	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97223	Thank you very much, ma'am. Well, actually, there's a little bit of privatization going on around here. Privatisation, this government really keeps public health, available to everyone and quality equal for everyone, that's what we keep. And indeed there was a time when it was shriveled and it wasn't seen and it was favored by privates, when it wasn't deliberately bought magnetic resonances. We've bought now, and we've combined the purchase, we've called a tender and we've got a magnetic resonance of 1.5 Tesla for 6 million each, otherwise they're individually more than 8 million. And they're gone now, they've got Varazdin now, they're going to get Chakovec, they're going to get Sisak, they're going to get Virovitica. And I have to admit that we've got what we need and Zadar's got, how we need it in Sibenik, I don't like to promise until it happens, but somewhere we have a framework where we'll put it in the next year and Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97224	Thank you. Dear colleague Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97225	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, on several occasions we mentioned the grants of European funds. I'm glad you just mentioned my Sisak hospital, how it would get this valuable device, but there was one little worm of doubt left. You know very well that at the end of the SDP government, two major projects in Sisak and Bjelovarska Hospital worth 150 million kuna were presented. Unfortunately, these projects didn't come back to life at some point. In different ways, media has speculated why it did not happen. So here I'd like to ask you here to finally clarify and state the real reasons why it didn't happen three years ago and it's happening now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97226	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97227	Thank you very much for asking, Madam. Actually, like I said, I don't like to throw mud at past hours, but the Sisak and Bjelovar projects were really stopped by united emergency receptions and daily hospitals. It's only by the time this government arrives that we've come to life, approved the funds and started to build. So we do not forget any part of Croatia. We do not go to election units where we get as many representatives and where our future votes are, but we are all Croats, regardless of whether in Istria, Slavonia, Lica, anywhere, all this is Croatia and everywhere we have to develop, and therefore of course we have revived projects, hospitals, Sisak and Bjelovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97228	Comrade Uncle, here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97229	Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to thank both you and the Prime Minister for the numerous investments in the healthcare of the Varazdin County. Only newly built buildings will be worth 204 million kuna, energy reconstruction facilities worth 207 million kuna. Specialist training of doctors at home health and emergency worth 16 million kn, purchase of magnetic resonance 8 million kuna. And when we add it all together, these are investments of 435 million kuna. Now the question is, how is it possible for you to invest so much in 2 years, and the former SDP government has failed in 4 years? Health invested zero square meters, zero square meters, zero square meters, zero square meters. And now that you've gone to all of their zeroes to list, that would be truly devastating for them. So you can interpret a little bit, as you can now, and there was nothing you could do before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97230	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97231	This is not difficult for us, this is not difficult for us, because we feel all of Croatia is our own, and therefore we try to categorize hospitals and where it is done, where there are professions, where there are knowledge, where there are results, to enable people and working conditions, and that means giving them equipment, i.e. tools, or conditions of space. And why can't, perhaps in some other replica, here in the assembly, ask them, why they didn't want to, they could have wanted to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97232	Here you go, colleague Karlic. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97233	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here are your colleagues from the opposition who have accused you of 26 points, about as an Inquisition for all the health problems that exist and these are the problems of the Croatian war project. I'm interested in one piece of information, if you know, since in 1.1.2013 a law on the rehabilitation of health-constitutional 29 hospitals, another two institutions, was passed among them a Vinkovka hospital from which I came, where the recovery director was appointed from the SDP and who, by his work, left several years more debt than he was before the rescue, and at that time, more than 20 doctors, the specialist fled the hospital, literally because they could not tolerate such working conditions. So I'm wondering if you know what it was like for other institutions in Croatia at the time of that recovery during the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97234	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97235	Mr. Representative, there's a president of the SDP I don't know how long it's gonna be, maybe it's better for him to ask you a little bit so he can tell you what those resolutions really meant, what financial conditions they left behind, and what it really meant was that recovery, of 6.5 billion, when the public debt was increased, filled up in the health system and again ended up in 2015, left again as before so-called. Recoveries have left 8 billion again. I think whoever answers that will be close to the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97236	And the last replica of my esteemed colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97237	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In 2013, the then SDP government, which was made up of 5 signatories, this request for your impeachment, is indeed... Croatian healthcare with 5 billion kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With a very thoughtful, strategic one, he would say to the visionary project, they tasked Croatia with an additional 5 billion kuna, which increased the debt of the state by about 1.5%. Over the next year and a half, as long as the term of office remains, they have managed to successfully garner another 7 billion kn for Croatian healthcare. And now here's what we're witnessing is that they're looking for your impeachment for failure, for those who left you with a 7 billion-dollar debt, and now they're looking for your recall because they've reduced that debt. So please comment on how and how you view the success of these signatories for your recall.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97239	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you very much. I think that's why we need to get together. I think that in the assembly the truth needs illustration, but in every sense, not in a negative sense what is used, we don't speak the language of truth. That and that, then and then he did that and that, he has that and that result, why that and that result. Then we'll go somewhere. You're taking it personally. I personally, however, look forward to anything today, which you suggest usefully, I will apply tomorrow and implement and I will proudly say so by a man from the SPD, the Bridge, the Living Wall. I'll be grateful. But this phenomenon, really, I don't know how they did it in such a short time, I have to admit, I don't know about such an economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97240	This is what we came to the end of the line. And now I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, dear colleague Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, when I heard that a question of trust would be raised by Minister Milan Kujundzic, I actually thought that a serious argument-backed material would come before us, whether I agree with them or not, supported by some figures, however, we received one article of the 6th page. in which it does not say letters and figures, not one single number, so, the article that amazes me, I must admit because I don't believe that people and some people who have been consulted about writing that watch were signed, in order to be absolutely certain, knowing the health system, wrote it somehow differently, at least reasoned. Because I repeat, there's no argument here, no single number. So, that article, I can't call it otherwise, is completely missed. It was missed from the fact that in all these items, which are written exclusively, according to the signatories, Minister Kujundzic failed to do. In no single place, it does not say what he did wrong, what he did wrong, which he made bad moves, in their opinion, in whose way, how did he damage it, by his actions to the health system? So there's not a single word, and it should be a serious document, a document that actually wants to remove a minister from the government, so a very serious document, reasoned, backed by numbers, I repeat, has no single number. Of course, if the trial had the right to ask questions about any minister and she did, but in any case, a man would expect, a little seriousness, a little arguments, a little numbers, and none of that is here. In an oral explanation, this watch, because I can't call it otherwise, a colleague of Strenja Linic convinced him, a colleague of Jovanovic also convinced him that he had added something he knew very well that was impossible, and that Minister Kujundzic was responsible for reducing the average life of Croatian citizens by 3 months. He knows very well, he's a doctor, so he knows it's impossible to make it within two years unless he's caused some kind of war, I don't know, that I don't know about. Maybe. While, unfortunately, a colleague of Bunjac, in one, literally, somnambulistic exposition accused him of being responsible for a number of autisms, or even the appearance of autism, d is responsible for a number of sterile marriages there we can seriously imagine his responsibility, I think but it is a number of sterile marriages, and also, one claim that I do not know from where he appeared that in Croatian hospitals, healthy children are held in psychiatric hospitals. But let's go see what the document says. I've already said no arguments, no numbers, no claims that the minister is guilty of something. Well, here we go, but let's go see what it says. For example, it says that he failed to make changes in the activity... And it is mentioned that instead of the T2 transport team, emergency medical aid needs T2 resuscitation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If someone can tell me what a resuscitation T2 team is, as a term, where it exists, I will be very grateful, because on the T2 team, there are two nurses, or, technicians, they are qualified to help patients and they have to be able to resuscitate. So every medical technician, every nurse knows how to resuscitate, and of course they are further trained and further educated and training to provide the highest level of emergency medical assistance. The next shift is that he missed the helicopter service. So it says literally like this, we currently have the transportation service of HV helicopters, contrary to international law and obligations of the Republic of Croatia, the worst of all, contrary to the interests of patients. It's embarrassing to say and write to all those sacrificial pilots and flight staff, who every day saves people's lives from islands and remote parts. Very successfully, every so much in the paper can be read about how someone was saved, how someone even gave birth in a helicopter, now suddenly it becomes a bad thing. These pilots must have a certain number of hours of flight. They'd fly easily or they'd fly like this across the sky above. This is how they save people's lives. And to them, it's extremely incorrect, to criticise it. I agree that it would be better if there was an additional helicopter medical service. The project was launched, those who strongly advocated it today were also against it, they stopped it, but as far as I can hear it, it's actually planning to continue with this project and if there's going to be funds and it seems like it will eventually be a separate medical helicopter service, but I repeat, normally and so far, there is a helicopter service that practically saves people's lives from the island and remote parts every day. And I repeat again, it is extremely incorrect for that flight staff, who, under very difficult sometimes times, flies to save someone. Among other things, he writes, I say, and because of the absence of such medical assistance, it was not possible to provide timely, necessary, health care and thus significantly increased the appearance of fatalities, but the emergence of unwanted and prevented... and disability as a lasting consequence for unhappy patients. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what are those numbers, who didn't get help? Where are these figures, where are the arguments for this claim, which is a very serious one claim. And this to prevent... This proves that it was certainly not written by the medics because the medics know that the comorbidities remained with that major disease. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it simply has nothing to do with this context. Among other things, it says that he was to carry out a procedure to introduce and standardize triage in hospital emergency receptions because innocent patients today suffer from unrecognizable urgency. It's simply incorrect. This is simply incorrect because as part of the emergency medical service they are formed in numerous hospitals united emergency hospital receptions. Of course everyone has standard triage. In fact, the foundations of triage standards in Croatia were set back in 2012. And today they're being used in all formed, united emergency hospital receptions. It writes a lot inside, for example, that it had to take care to adopt a Regulation on the labelling of genetically modified products, etc., which, at all, I repeat is not in the power of the Minister of Health, nor was he obliged to adopt such a regulation, and this is what we have been here and we have adopted the laws following EU legislation that the said regulations have been directly applicable and fully binding in all EU countries since 2004. So, of course, it had nothing to do with the health minister and what he was supposed to do and didn't do, he shouldn't have done it at all. And we have a couple of pearls. When we talk about the financial aspect, one of these is that it was meant to achieve the financial integrity of public health by requiring consistent and credible implementation of laws obliging the state to pay off health care to particularly vulnerable groups of citizens and the burden awaits today is borne by all citizens of health insurance bonds. Well, that's one so illogical sentence. What it means to commit a state and on the other hand today is all citizens of the bonds of contributions. Well, of course the state has that contribution money, where they'll have that money elsewhere. And of course it's citizens who give. And when we talk about particularly vulnerable groups, then it is quite certain and such as ensuring overall health care for children until the 18th year of life, persons with chronic psychiatric and malignant diseases, infectious diseases, treatment of occupational injuries, occupational diseases, preventive protection of school children, regular students, women, people over 65 years of age, people with disabilities, people who are in transplant programmes, etc., etc. It says in this paper that he should also have taken encouraging measures to remain of healthcare professionals in Croatia etc., etc., very nice general text and we know very well that even in places where there are, they offer apartments to doctors, they offer higher salaries to doctors, etc., we have problems and do not come doctors and they do not want to stay doctors. Therefore, such beautiful desires but formed as accusations are actually completely bizarre. There are anacronisms. Let's just say that he was supposed to bring modern time frame standards into providing health care, it's a termology that was long ago in the former system, we're now using the DTS system as many other countries. So, I don't know, someone got a little confused in a couple of decades probably financing health care. Quality to apply for the European Medicines Agency, it is almost at, for me, a little funny because when you look at the terms and conditions and why Croatia did not get the agency for medicines applied by 19 Member States and they clearly said that the traffic connection of the city of Zagreb with the air lines, the number of international schools in Zagreb is not what they want, salaries of workers in Croatia since the cost of life would be much lower than in some other cities of the world etc.. And these were the reasons why, unfortunately, the European Agency's candidacy was rejected and in no case did some miss the government or anything. It is also claimed that it failed to bring a national hospital development plan to the Republic of Croatia. Well, the master, and the master's plan hasn't come to life. And who made the master's plan for the hospital? Well, he was made by the SDP government and we criticised it just as something that won't live and that's what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97242	Thank you, too. We now have a 5-minute exhibition on behalf of the promoter, respected colleague Strenja Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97243	Thank you. For starters, I will answer only a few questions that have been raised during this debate. All right, I've got the paper in place. So, as for the emergency, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister, of course, I was very quick to refer to the event after the unfortunate event and the death of the patient because I knew that he was only one in a series that resulted in a reform of emergency medical assistance. Whoever knows emergency medicine and I hope you ministers know, there's no real resuscitation unless the patient's pathway is open. If a patient doesn't have a braunil for 35 minutes and allows emergency medications that are part of the resuscitation procedure, then it's not something that justifies that the E.R. That didn't come in and justify our emergency organization. I am not going into it, and I was very careful to comment on why the young man died, but I was saying what if anyone in this situation could have been saved, waiting on the road to the city of Zagreb, so it's not some remote island or bania to wait 35 minutes without consciousness and there's no one opening a venous path and starting a reanimation procedure. Therefore, life-supporting and life-saving procedures which are the subject of extra-patient emergency assistance cannot be implemented without professional qualifications and competences that include setting up an intravenous approach and giving medicines to this route, however, they do not have the competence and qualifications of nurses and technicians in Croatia for the time being. And they're looking for it. Soon their association came forward and said they were looking for such competences because you have cases when they came to the scene and they shouldn't have if they did, then they broke the law. Therefore, because of the obvious lack of doctors, those who have these competences have doctors, daily because they do not have permission to do so, question the effective life-saving of a T2 team that does not have a doctor. We therefore represent the need to change the qualification and competence framework of the work of nurses and technicians in an outpatient emergency where, in the capacity of the Paramedics, we would effectively save lives by carrying out procedures that are not now to be implemented and necessary to save lives. That is not what Minister Kujundzic did for his term and he wrote in the conclusion of the work, the Emergency Reform Working Group, I said very kindly at the very beginning of the mandate, I said the former government in which he participated, and MOST was formed by Minister Nakic, 6 very high-quality commissions, which were non-partisan experts from nurses to professors who work emergency medicine in their lives. And so there were six reform groups, to reform the primary, that document was also ready for financial stabilisation. One of them was an emergency reform proposal. And that's what it said in that document. So that shifting, the transfer of competence, why, there's no doctor. 500 doctors who are in the ambulance can switch to hospitals and compensate for the lack of a doctor without any last intention of advice, we thought it should be carried out. So the minister failed to implement legal educational assumptions for the gradual, professionally sustainable transfer of work and responsibility from the doctor of non-patient emergency medicine to trained nurses and medical technicians and so instead of the transport T2 emergency team, to have a resuscitation team, why? T2 team, he's just for transport, we have transport cars, he's if he comes in and I can only blow air and massage the heart, they can't conduct a reanimation procedure and we very often replace and we say, we don't have a T1 team but we have a T2 and then we send it to an emergency, imagine a child on the road that will wait half an hour and only one T2 team will come to him, of course we can't cover all of Croatia but we're trying, we have to try and that's why I had to answer like this, now on behalf of the club, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97244	It can't because you have a replica, so please sit down. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Petrov, please. [[/Intruder Linic: Yeah, good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97245	My colleague Strenja-Linić, I am pleased that we have returned to these exhibitions after one, so we can freely say or call dances of haughtiness, arrogance, insulting parliamentary representatives by the Prime Minister but I guess he knows what he is doing and why he is doing it. I ask you to explain to me the problem of going to the doctor, what a minister has done in the last two years on this matter, what he could have done. And before you make a deal, I'll just say what I think is the problem. The problem, among other things, is that you have a case today where a person in Split reports it today due to cardiac disturbances and is ordered to review it next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97246	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97247	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. So that's what I want to talk to you about. For many years, the general public has been talking about the lack of a doctor. The Croatian Association of Hospital Doctors and the coordination of Family Doctors continue to say how many doctors are missing. And then in response to the minister we have how much specialization has been assigned, of course, since Croatia, every year a number of specializations are assigned, and so on, it is to every worker, give his hammer and shovel to do the job, but what you did as a man, what you did as a minister to keep the doctors because what you gave them specialization, you did nothing more than what you did before and the doctors leave. So there were other measures to be found. Of course, with all that, he missed out on some legal solutions that I'll later have more space for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97248	Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues Strenja-Linić, I believe you were confused so you called your sisters paramedixes, you know very well that the paramedics in some countries are cops, firemen, etc., and that you did not intend to offend your sisters with them being paramedics. They're nurses very well educated and how well they know how to do their job, so I believe it's just a lapse... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97250	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97251	You're partly right because all the time I wanted to say that we need to have medical technicians, but your minister was right shortly after we said that the emergency was not working properly he started mentioning the paramedics and said that he would do so in his reform. At this point, I thought he thought we were going to call the paramedics and nurses the paramedics, although I don't think we should put the layman on the car right now, while... This resource we have, which is nurses and technicians with them, we don't try to fill those holes that are missing in the ambulance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97252	Here you go, buddy Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97253	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague who would answer, so we can unwittingly list the shortcomings, flaws, holes, and in the health system and in all other areas, but we can also list the achievements. So here, since I come from Split, and where I have the opportunity to see big steps in health care in the development of KBC, Split will take this turn, so over the past year and a half, two days so the hospital center of Split has 72 new specialists, 10 times the previous years. We have 50 new doctors, we have 250 new nurses, we have a reconstruction of the center for oncology, we have new CT machines, we have new abilities of intervention neurologists, we have neuroradiology, we have an electrophysiology of the heart, we have equipped daily hospitals with over 50 million kunas, so the procedure is being conducted, and so the completion is essentially for stem cell transplants. So, huge support [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Minister in all other areas. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97254	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97255	... to comment on Split at the moment, all that you have done is medicine for 21 centuries and it is logical that it all exists in one clinical hospital center, if it has existed in KBC Rebro for a long time. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Split is a big problem, what happened to counterpart Ivana Ninčević, is happening in Split, there is a special problem anesthesiologist, there are special problems with the staff of specialists at jobs where they should not as specialists without us to work and it is a failure and the director's office and directors of anesthesia and directorship and minister of what allows such things. You have Split in which, today, she came to me because I have a terrible lot of messages, for 2020 she orders practically one emergency for one UZV blood vessel and you have what you list. Of course, there's a whole other way to work it out. KBC Split is the only hospital that has no information system So you can talk about I don't know which [[Intruder President: Thank you.]] The super reform that took place inside the hospital. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97256	Here you go, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97257	Thank you very much. My colleague Linic, you were talking about the speed of transport and so on, his debate, so I'm interested, I'm going back to helicopter transport. You two, a few years ago, accused former Minister Varga of abolishing that pilot project with that Italian firm that flew for 4 months, why he did it, they flew for only a day, we only remember by day, 200 flights, it means 10 million kuna, and you attacked him for why he abolished it. You're in favour now, or you're accusing the minister of doing nothing for the helicopter service, even though we know that MORH is carrying 900 people a year, mostly during the night when we need it most. So now I ask you if you support the minister and his 35m-euro programme to create our own strength, to have our own helicopters, or to advocate doing it to us again from outside or I don't know from Italy, Austria and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97258	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97259	I'm so glad you asked that question. So, the 30 million kuna that Minister Varga had put into that pilot project was inadequate because they were helicopter helicopters that couldn't, they didn't drive on holiday, night and bad times. So, it's all ours, but so many years after the war, they're the helicopters I flew in during the war. So many years after the war, we still, so after Varga we went back to those military helicopters. I believe that in these two years something has already been done to move towards the civilian emergency helicopter service, it has been missed, a pilot, a pilot of studies costing 160 thousand kuna, and we will eventually take it from Europe, we do not have to take it from Europe and we do not need money from our citizens' pockets. There are other forms and it is, for example, a tourist tax, you're in it. Why wouldn't every kuna tourist give a single kuna to have a real civilian emergency helicopter service? which would be part of the rescue action [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Quite adequate? [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97260	Thank you. Minister Milan Kujundzic will now address on behalf of the government. Here you go. Five minutes, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97261	I think it's a good thing we're back in medicine and medical problems and we're gonna look into our eyes and talk, and I can always talk to you and get everyone to the table. He says Maxim Gorki, a man who sounds bitter. Mrs. Strena-Linić, being president of the Health Committee in the Croatian Parliament, is a major, important and significant function. You've never come to me or constructively suggested anything, you question yourself you have a chance together we can do more, and regarding the emergency return I'll analyze. To work out an ambulance, we continued what was, so the new minister can't come, and now he's going to invent something that comes to his mind. We have continued what was and we have improved on several locuses throughout Croatia, we have increased the number of teams and 1 and 2 we have increased, but the urgency that is now set is not suitable for modern European and world practice and you will see what will look like in a few months, we are just waiting for the law to come into force, and then in one place an emergency hospital reception and an emergency county or city will be united. And then we'll have more doctors in one place if we need them, but more doctors who are going to rush out if there's a car accident or some need without endangering the system and staying closed, don't stay closed the door. It was also an opportunity to solve the problem of duty because someone here mentioned Metkovic, Vrgorac, Sinj etc. It could not be organised because the doctors, or privates, refused to participate and there was no way to force them to return or to be on duty. And it's settled and it's going to look different. And now we're going to Teams T1 and T2. So we didn't go to hold presses, we didn't wear any long posters here, etc. but we have prepared in silence with all the universities via Osijek, Zagreb, Split and Rijeka education, or specialization of the first graders and masters of the sorority or technicians who will be team leaders of T2 maximum education and is not really a resuscitation if you allow a little medical play to put a venous path. Much more important than the venous pathway, Mrs. Doctor, is that, it's much more important to intubate with a heart massage, and these people will know that. In one second they'll know how to intubate and don't be alarmed at all, just talk medically now, nice and we'll see where we are, which, who we are, who we know, what's good, and best this Parliament will choose for the Croatian people. So, everything is ready and education is ready to go as soon as the law enters zero kuna increases we will have more teams and there will be no weaknesses that we have had so far, and as for the specializations that you have touched that specializations are given that it is normal to have tools. Not a doctor normally, look at hospitals, clinics, institutions as years passed, and no specializations have been given, and now Mr. Skorić has said how much this year only went to Split specialization, but elsewhere this government has provided money, launched a tender, and people have already started specialising in five years, or when someone started specialising, we will not have to literally close some departments because there is no one to work on. As far as cardiology is concerned in Split, so this government hasn't gone deaf, we know what a heart attack is, and we know what it is to do. This government has through the combined acquisitions, acquired coronography apparatus that have been purchased at 30% lower price than the market price and through which Croatians throughout Croatia will receive stents or will be given a dilation, and already Split can mention something else, which is that we are now going with the programme, so we are not just fighting for various diseases not only carcinomas, many others are diseases, and one of them is very serious with a high cause of mortality and disability is a stroke. So in Split, we've already done an invasive radiology program, and many people with strokes go home as healthy people, or almost healthy, otherwise they'd go as dead people or disabled people. We won't stand in any way, and anything you suggest here or in any way we adopt, come to me at the Ministry and we'll talk and what you suggest nicely, I'll announce that you suggested it. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97262	The first replica of a esteemed colleague of the Squibbles, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97263	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Minister of your speech would be able to conclude that waiting lists in the Croatian Health System are not too long, but what people are telling me, they tell me that they are waiting for over two years, meaning they are experiences and not only to wait over two years, but they are taking place that doctors working in public hospitals and in private clinics are saying that due to lack of material and lack of apparatus to send patients to private clinics where they themselves work. So it's not just a conflict of interest where doctors send private polyclinics where they work, it's a single health system that's so toxic that it allows corruption at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97264	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97265	And all this stuff you said nice was you know it was happening, report it, report it, I think there might be such a phenomenon, I know where there is, I'd report it, so so do you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97266	Dear colleague Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97267	The Honorable Ministers know and say that a healthy man has a thousand wishes, only one sick. I'm interested in the Innovation Medicines Fund. From January 2018 we have information that 30.000,00 kn is paid from the media, and I am interested in the latest information you have on the state of the Fund, how much the Government has paid and how much Croatian citizens have paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97268	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97269	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. So the exact numbers I don't know, but I can say about it, so if I say a number wrongly, it was primarily the meaning and purpose of these accounts that those who want to help can be paid, so that they just don't declare themselves humanists should help, but rather, what is the applicable practice around the world of those who want to pay. I think it's been paid for spinzaze somewhere around 1,300,000,00 grand about speaking numbers, for dinutuximar, these are children with neuroblaxtom in Klaic's couple of tens of thousands, whether 40.50 thousand I can't say that. The government was actually reacting promptly because we're stable and... And we put the spinz on the list and they're now on the list and this money that's there now can be rerouted to new needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for a drug that won't be on the list. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97270	Here you go, pal Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97271	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, in your statement, you mentioned that the president of the Health Committee was not with you. I've been with you on request as mayor to help me resolve the situation in our House of Health. I also called the president of the Assembly Committee, she came to Vrgorac, I was at your place, and it was done just absolutely nothing. And not only in Vrgorec, but in the entire rural area of Croatia. We have that famous proverb that might depict health care in a rural area that we often hear from our fellow citizens prays God, or prays for God’s help not to hurt you. There, it is health care in the rural area of Croatia. So in Vrgorec, Sinj, Imotskom, we can't get blood out in the home of health, we have to go to Split and we're talking about health care today. So to listen to the citizens of the rural part of Croatia, it is 85% of Croatia's territory, so they wonder what kind of health care is. We're talking about mice here. I see mice around my home of health. Maybe it's funny to someone, but it's a real picture, it's a real picture of 85% of Croatia's territory and it doesn't change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97272	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97273	Thank you very much for mentioning Vrgorac, Mr. Representative, and whoever gets, in particular, citizens of the region, will receive citizens of Vrgorac, Makarska, Imotski, eastern parts of Sinjska and Omis region. They will receive something in the next few months that will be first in Croatia and will be very good. They will receive a daily hospital in Zagvozd where construction works have already been carried out, equipment begins and top specialists will come from Split, Zagreb and we have called this project 20 minutes. So for 20 minutes, the citizens of Vrgorec, Makarska, Imotski Sinja will be top specialist. So that end will definitely get you another one you get specializations, you'll be looking for more. There are also funds, just looking, right for health homes in depressed areas. I think we've got about 170 million somewhere. But I'm so glad you mentioned what the Vorgorcans will get.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97274	Thank you. My colleagues, Strenja Linic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97275	I want to know what you're going to do, Minister. I want to know what you're going to do so the doctors can sit with you at the table and negotiate their rights. As you know, I proposed a year ago amendments to the Law on Representativeness, which would allow doctors as system holders to be equal.../The speaker subsequently excluded, so involved./... to discuss their rights when signing a collective contract. It's about six months out. how delayed it is, when you're going to allow doctors to sit at the table and negotiate their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97276	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97277	Dear MPs, thank you very much and for asking. It's one problem where it's really impossible for doctors not to sit down and negotiate a collective contract. And that's where we solved with one model where there's a change of the law on representativeness, where it's already in preparation, and we put in a fuse, if we accidentally pull out, in 3 months. In fact, negotiations are starting. We've put on a fuse, and that's where the health unions have already negotiated, as far as possible according to the law, where doctors will sit at the table. So there's going to be an amendment to the Law on Representativeness, and in the meantime we've agreed with the trade unions that doctors will sit down as normal at the negotiating table, in a collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97278	Dear colleague Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97279	Thank you, Prime Minister Kujundzic, I referred you a parliamentary question in May, about the future of the immune office, you answered me in September, 4 months. Later, you responded to me in three paragraphs, the second and third paragraphs dealing with some of the decisions of the 2015 SDP are first engaged in, therefore, the transfer of activities contract, and the second paragraph deals with the regulation establishing the Immunological Institute. I have not received any concrete explanation, which will be with the employees, which will be with the appointed, which will be with strains, viral vaccines, bacterial vaccines, which will be with patents, which will be with the location, not a single excessive response, but you answer, we have decided to initiate the procedure to transform the company into a health care facility. The same decision from word to word was made by the SDP and failed to implement it. I asked you how you'd spend it, and you're spinning around in circles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97280	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97281	Mr. Representative, thank you very much, this is a serious and major problem inherited by this government, which unfortunately results in the collapse of a serious Croatian company that was 30 % of the world market, 25% not 30, 25% of the world market. So at this point, a new director was appointed, a contract was made between the City of Zagreb and the government on the partnership, the projects were launched to return actually 10 years ago were somewhere in 2013.L were actually the heart of the immune institution SDP had been taken out. That means... That is, the scientific part of the people and they moved the entrails into the structure of the university. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what we're going back to and getting ready for the recapitalisation and putting on the feet of the Immunological Institute, which is not going to be easy to do. And the problem of plasma has already been solved, no longer sold at such a low price as it was done in the previous period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97282	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97283	Dear Minister, I would be very pleased to see that if the Law on Representativeness is changed, doctors can really sit at the negotiating table and I find it strange that the bill has been standing for a year and is not working on it. You say, you write your own, I support whatever, just let it happen. But at one point, you mentioned in your speech that the Parliament would decide tomorrow, which is what it is. We see that the diameter uses the store and defines it by winning. It's one of our new maxivels. And that's why it's a special story about her I don't want to talk about right now. What I mentioned to you was the usual specialist review, I didn't know you'd get the call to tell you, it's the usual specialist cardiology. I accept there's an expensive review, an invasive review, and I welcome that. I'm saying that the person in Split, today a year, is waiting for the usual cardiac examination. But besides that, you'd be begging for 10 seconds. 'Cause I know I missed the time, but I'd just ask for 10 seconds. for the final question. You said on the other hand that you would allow doctors to specialize. What interests me is what has been done specifically to make your doctors stay in Croatia after specialization, because otherwise we teach people that some other countries might earn money on them. [[Intruder Reiner: All right, fellow Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97284	The reply of the Honorable Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97285	Well, look, it's a topic that we've all been through a lot together... which should be done by the Government, which should be done by the local administration to keep doctors on their grounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So from insurance work for a husband or wife depending on who is a doctor and who is not up to reduced taxes and cuts in such areas to free education we are already working on. You saw that we actually secured 30 million kunas we provided for the education of family doctors who are our biggest problem, i.e. primary for education that goes through the chamber and through the ER. We also provided for the sorority, so these are the procedures there are no inventions of a warm will that we don't know about, you or any of us. But it's not a matter of one ministry that I can now say I'll give you a salary of 50 or 90% higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97286	The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I don't think you've explained it clearly enough, so this is the time to maybe get back to the expensive medicine fund. So the account opened to raise additional funds is not the primary account from which expensive medicines are financed. I'm afraid that's not clear enough and that many colleagues haven't made a distinction between these two things. When we talk about keeping a doctor, I will give you a good example of the Međimurje County where the Ministry of Health has approved all the specializations that the county hospital in Čacvoc has requested. I think it's a good way to go, you just need to know which way the hospital is headed, which way the county leadership goes and which way the ministry goes and how it can help. And lastly, I think it's good that the hospital-to-work evaluation system is running, and that it will also in some way enable them to operate according to what they can accomplish and not make losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97288	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97289	Thank you very much for supplementing this reflection because in fact we can all come up with programs together to keep, not just doctors, we should keep both teachers and teachers and informers and not to list the interests of everyone else now, that's also the point, that's the meaning of all of us together. And I opened another space with a new law, which is why I went to court honor in a chamber where I said there are those who work and those who don't work. The new law provides that those people who work have results, that they can and should have a higher salary, so we will also demass these many things and there will be no more flatteners because those who do not work and it is no harm to us if they leave. They will not be lost by the Germans, nor by the Irish, nor by the Gentiles. We are the losers of those who know and work. And we in Croatian medicine, we actually know who is who, how difficult it is, who is wanted, who is the review, or who no one has ever asked for a review, never anyone, can you talk to him, no, so we also take those masks off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97290	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Škvoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97291	Thank you very much. Here, dear Minister, you mentioned the construction of a daily hospital in Zagvozd, which will soon reach its end and in which month we expect it to function. In addition, as far as I know, similar daily hospitals are being prepared in Metkovic and in northern Istria as part of the Dubrovnik and Pula general hospitals. As far as the city of Split itself is concerned, what we haven't pointed out yet, and I think that after a long time and a long time, the preparations are being completed by the construction of a united hospital reception, which will significantly improve the activities of the Clinical Hospital Centre Split and improve the status of the entire Central Dalmatian health care center. So you mentioned through a series of these activities that are not impossible in a year, two, three to resolve but it is important to enable development and reduced difference between KBC Split and other centres in Croatia. So it was said here and here through your report and about the combined acquisition and a series of other things that... the state of health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97292	Thank you. Dear Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97293	... I must say that I am grateful to you who have initiated my procedure because actually I, as a minister, have no PR, nor do I have a spokeswoman and many things I do in silence, nor do I boast because I think as in medicine... [[Specially enabled.]] It works and actually the one who works in medicine knows who puts the patient back in the intensive room and who the patients go somewhere else where no one wants to, so I'm going to stick to that principle of state and I'm going to stick to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today you gave me a chance to tell me what was done. So, I said, this government is not a government according to election units or cities where it gets votes, this is all the Croatian government. And now, here I am talking to you colleagues from the Neretva Valley, and now, a historical injustice and the most unfavourable position of patients in the Neretva Valley and we will correct that injustice because by accident there is a limit to Dubrovnik, Split is far away and these patients very difficult for a lot of money can come to a specialist. So they'll come, the day hospital will come to Metkovic very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97294	Thank you. The next replica is colleagues of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97295	Ministers can see that MPs mention the Split-Dalmatia County where the worst chaos in the home of health is. I'm going to say one more example, the Cetina province is larger by the number of residents of Lika-Senj County. By territory, it's bigger than Međimurje County. Women die in the ranks to enroll if they're lucky, most often they don't enroll and many die or have to go to the private. It's a state of mind. Emergency assistance is often closed, not that doctors don't do their jobs but there are no teams, there's a huge area and that area has been forgotten. And that's only forgotten because, I mentioned just before Failing, but he was the Five you trust. And for this reason, I will look on behalf of the MOST Club in Split-Dalmatia County for a thematic session to not listen to these stories of parliamentary representatives from Split-Dalmatia County of colleagues Škvoric and others who praise the health system in Split-Dalmatia County where people have no service And the lab devices are the devices are written on them... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] of 2nd St. The war. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97296	Thank you. Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97297	Of course we appreciate that there are problems and weaknesses, I know them well. So that's what we're dealing with, there's definitely going to be more teams now in both the Sinj end and the second part of Split Dalmatian County, where doctors will be on duty so far, and that's one thing that's going to happen, and that's that T2 teams with trained and specialised first-graders, or teachers, will fly to the field, so that doctors can look at as many patients as possible. So it will be better and at a very soon time, however, without changing the law, we couldn't change that state overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97298	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97299	I have to notice one change from Minister Kujundzic's like a cuddly lamb is today. He invites us all to come to me, make suggestions, come to me all tired, burdened, I will refresh you. That's what it looks like. What I'm interested in, here's a colleague of Ines Strenja Linic who comes across people with problems and asks for example. Ask Minister Kujundzic why the master's office, the graduate nurses are not recognised or recognized in the system, nor in the laws, nor in the coefficients regulation? So, here are the people asking concrete questions from the field, and we have a case of doctors leaving, who, who have no working conditions here and are poorly paid, within our system, I know personally that a fellow psychiatrist, a doctor of science, has received a series of offers. But, people, meaning that they want to fight for changes within this system, they stay, but one good part of people quit and leave Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97300	Thank you, the answer of the respected Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97301	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. On the request of the medical biochemistry master, you can ask here, the present, then Minister of Science and here the isoctious Minister of Health, which was then done by the Minister of Science, how he hastily and illegally invented the study, unprepared and for himself a professor's place, as he invented in this study, which should also be spoken in the assembly. So that's one problem, where in an illegal way, without consenting with the Ministry of Health, then and what we have to fix now and now, it's not easy. So that study will have to be done. So they're going to need more education for these people. And you can't admit something that isn't worth it. I can't say it's a foot long, if we all see it's six feet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97302	Thank you, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Jovanovic, please. What's the injured representative in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97303	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr. Kujundzic persistently insinuated the responsibility of Minister of Science from the period of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, i.e. me regarding the opening of a medical laboratory diagnostic study in Osijek, which is completely wrong and should then be asked a little bit about how colleges are set up. [[Intruder Reiner: Rules of Procedure.]] So, the minister of education and science and sports has nothing to do with the decision and the other insinuated something about a professorial title, which was chosen by the foundation of the opening of the study, which is slander. So Kujundzic quickly stopped being a cuddly lamb and began slandering. So I'm asking for an apology and you to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97304	Okay. I estimate it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97305	The Honorable Chairman, so the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I asked the minister about the medical sorority, not about the biochemists. And just when I commended him how well he was bluffed today, he went on the attack. I think it would have been better if I hadn't praised him. My rules of procedure have been broken because I'm not being answered. [[/Intruder Reiner: Well, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97306	I'm sorry, I think I'm giving you a warning now, because we can't work like that, that way we won't work. No, no, you have a warning, you can't function that way, I'm sorry, because you abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know exactly why the institution is in violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. And I ask everyone not to abuse that institution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97307	Dear Mr. Renier, I don't know why you've given Mr. Grmoya a warning now. Mr. Grmoya told the truth, Mr. Minister. So Mr. Secretary wasn't talking about the subject. [[What is the injured Rules of Procedure? At what point?]] He wasn't talking about the subject that Thunder asked him. Well, you can't give a warning to Grmoy if the minister didn't talk about the subject and hurt his rules of procedure. [[And what difference does that make, what are you telling me?]] I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97308	Comrade Scybol, you'll get a warning, the next time you do something like that you've done now you'll get a warning. I'm asking you nicely, let's not start with any injuries to the Rules of Procedure right now. I'll move with a ban on speech, a second time warning, a ban on speech. Well, now, if that's what you want, we'll keep it that way. I don't think it's a good or parliamentary way. Because in the absence of arguments, we cannot argue and abuse some of the institutions of the Rules of Procedure. Let's say our arguments, let's say, we're facing arguments, but let's make it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now we have, now we're going to move on to the representatives' clubs, so on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the first one will speak to the respected representative of Ines Strenja Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome once again the Minister and his State Secretary. Thank you for coming, this is an important topic and you need to be here. So, first of all, I'm going to comment on the fact that we're always talking about specializations, that I've received messages now, I'm networked with a hundred and more doctors who are really in all health institutions within Croatia, and you need to know that no one is answering to specializations in some cities. They stay unfulfilled. Last year it remained unfulfilled even at the KBC in Rijeka. They were not filled in Varazdin, Virovitica, so it is not a measure to stay a doctor. As for my colleagues from Vrgorec, I went on call and saw and I couldn't help but realize that the situation in those areas was bad. I hope you as minister will do something but I suggested and then Mr. Pranic did something as head of the municipality. He came to me now after a summer break and said we were building six apartments for doctors and nurses. That's the thing. So I really explained to him that until he had something to keep these doctors and nurses with, they would leave him. A few of them were retired and he really understood as they understood in Međimurje County and it is commendable in other counties as well. But it was expected that the minister would be the one, not the Croatian medical chamber and local and regional self-government, who would begin to organise themselves somehow to see how to keep doctors. As for the departure of nurses, it's also a big problem, but I also have to say sisters and doctors as well as all the problems that have been happening and that we have somehow recorded happening, my parliamentary committee has done through 17 thematic sessions, many of them based on what we have been asked and have been dedicated to issues of burning health problems with conclusions. And in many of these thematic sessions, the minister, if not the minister, was sitting in the secretary of state, and we were talking about going to the sisters, the ways of inadequate schooling them because they are now going to high school for 5 years and then going to high school and becoming high school students and five-year high school students, remain with the same competences, which is completely illogical because two directives have been applied and should be amended, there were also the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, etc. Thematic session on emergency reform, thematic session on the need to adopt a national anti-cancer programme, on doctor departure and so on. That's what I can do as a constituency board, and I think we've done a lot here. I will now at some points because it is very interesting how the government has actually confirmed everything we have said in our recall, and that is that all the answer will happen, we plan, it will be done so said, the minister stated that the education teams of emergency medicine say, will be educated, trained to provide the highest level of emergency medical assistance. Our reason for impeachment is that it wasn't done. Then the establishment of helicopter medical services and maritime medical services. So we thought that we should establish our own emergency helicopter and fast ship's medical assistance, independent, civil service with highly educated personnel and with clearly defined competences according to the rights of the profession and the rule of gold watch. I can't discuss if someone's discussing me because this is a serious topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97310	I agree, and I'm sorry, but here's the deal. I can't tell you who's going to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97311	Okay, here we go. Therefore, Croatia has committed to implement and maintain, in accordance with international obligations and regulations, what dictates international law and profession, that it will implement and organise a civil medical emergency helicopter service. [[Intruder Reiner: Excuse me, please continue, colleagues.]] Right now we only have HV helicopter transport services, and there are doctors in there who flew even during the war, yes, and some nurses. And I've been and I've visited, and all of that, it's not real civilian helicopters that can still land somewhere else from the places where these heavy helicopters are landing. So we currently have an HV helicopter transport service to increase helicopter hours against international law and obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Worst of all, it's against the interests of patients, and I'm responsible for that. Search and rescue actions should be integrated into helicopter emergency medical services such as in other EU Member States, thereby regulating the security issues of these doctors and other healthcare professionals and patients and enabling them to be integrated into an emergency medical helicopter service. As part of the above, define the area provided and the possibility of payment to bring the system closer to self-sustainability. These are the capital projects that need to help finance from EU funds, but for this they should have a elaborated plan. At this point we said, we have to solve it in a completely different way and that is, the proposal is, 1 kn more from the tourist tax. Then what we said in the same way as the ER was to establish legal assumptions for improving the quality of emergency medical assistance by integrating the work of the outpatient emergency medical teams previously changed in accordance with this point, which was to transfer powers with emergency hospital receptions in which the care of patients brought in ambulances, run on-call doctors and specialists and specialists from emergency medicine and other hospital doctors deployed that day for emergency work. And it was mandatory to carry out legal and other assumptions to establish family doctors and pediatricians, health care professionals and concessionaries as planned in the current law. Since now the minister in this law, which we will also criticise next, and exactly why there is no, in this way he suggested, will not be able to resolve the duty. Furthermore, the minister says that what would be to prevent unnecessaryly high costs of transport from the island to the mainland at home destinations should be made possible by means of automatic biochemical analysers to determine the necessity of emergency transport intervention. It's a little slow on the medical side, but it doesn't matter. I mean, so 2016 started this story with the supply of these ordinary automatic biochemical analysts. That's the problem. So for two years, the minister failed to implement it, and then we started it. There's not even a contest to be called. Furthermore, related to functional integration of emergency activity. So the proposal for functional integration from the final bill, as we have said, as we will see and you have it on the website of the Parliament, was unspoken and missed. It is pointless to use the resources of doctors from the hospital to patch up holes in the outpatient emergency room, as the minister said, in case of need they will all from the hospital back to the car and back to the field because there are not enough doctors in the hospitals, it is equally professionally unsustainable to drive emergency patients in need of emergency assistance from remote hospitals to hospitals when they need emergency care and not hospital treatment. The ambulance should be provided directly, at the scene of the accident, and then it is most effective. They should have competent experts, within the legal framework of what we call them. Of course, we won't call them paramedics because at this point, we think it should be nurses and technicians. So those who are able to carry out life-saving procedures on the spot with the greatest potential for efficiency and with at least fatal outcomes or the outcome of unwanted disability, not to mess with bureaucratic problems of integration after the separation of emergency medical care facilities 8 years ago, in which it was opposed to showing a number of professional and medical associations about the lack of reform that spent 80 million kuna. Furthermore, the minister also calls for a regulation on the conditions of the organisation and the way in which emergency medicine is performed in the united hospital receptions. So, when the minister just walked through the united emergency receptions of Croatian hospitals, then he would see that the rule spoken of in the government's response is unfortunately not carried out consistently in the vast majority of hospitals. Ask patients if they're satisfied with the way emergency receptions work, as long as they're waiting, and besides, there's KBCs like that. Split, which has not yet established united emergency hospital receptions according to the rulebook. And you say, the foundations of triage standards in the Republic of Croatia were set in 2012, and are now used in all the united emergency hospital receptions. Again as in the first point, years later, we are still where we are, where the same level of education is and we cannot consider it satisfactory because it came out long ago in 2012 regardless of what is published in the NN and what is still valid. So you better not have explained at all because he put in there that 708 medical technicians, etc., 13 training exercises, so you better not have put numbers at all because it turns out that in 6 years there is a system of relicence, although it is a preoptimistic name for restoration, knowledge and skills, it passed 1/3 of the total number of triage sisters, so 5.6% of them every year and in 6 months. intervals and they need constant education. At the same time, the media is full of inscriptions on how crowded there are in the united emergency hospital receptions and what doctors do with nonsense, most triage categories below 3, we know what it means, where progress and development of triage is, where there is a task shifting so doctors can deal more closely with real emergency categories. With regard to primary health care, therefore, there are currently 12% of team holders missing from primary health care, which is why young people who have just entered the constitution without sufficient experience are forced to cover the functioning of hospitals in two to three remote offices, which undermines the quality of monitoring the state of the domicillary population and also deprives continuity in providing health care. So we have a completely devastated, health-devased area of Slavonia, the Dalmatian Burn, and we point to that here. For a long time, the problem has been warned of the lack of family doctors within the system, which has made it impossible for many parts of Croatia to operate as basic healthcare. That's what I'm talking about. We've got 70-year-old people in these hospitals, and even 75-year-olds, they'd have found them working, although they should have retired long ago or retired, so as a colleague from Zdenac, she came back because she says I'm sorry. That's what's quiet about, the directors of the health and health care homes, and the employees themselves are in fear of retaliating the superiors and are reluctant to talk about it publicly. The result is the overload of family doctors who are forced to work daily and several times more patients than is prescribed by European norms and rules of profession. This particularly leads to expressions in the summer months for the time of work of replacement colleagues during vacations when the family medicine office also takes care of domestic and foreign tourists in the coastal area. The situation in the offices is equally difficult in cases of medical illness, many of them have not been able to use vacations for years, the problem is when they go on maternity leave, child care, etc. Then family doctors are forced to work simultaneously in several hospitals without any or without adequate compensation. As it is often very young and inexperienced doctors, they find it difficult to withstand chaos in the system and simply flee, doctors flee from primary health care. As for the home of health, as the minister intends to strengthen the role of health homes in the environment where for years in open competitions for the employment of doctors, no one appears, where in some developed environments of Croatia, employment competitions are successfully implemented in just 1/5 cases and for a certain time because doctors who appear do not intend to stay longer. Or in counties where the number of unemployed doctors with a professional exam can be counted on the fingers of one hand for years without the increased involvement of the state to find a solution to motivate doctors to work and live in less developed areas of Croatia, all that is, that is, all that the government has failed to offer in this response to our request for impeachment. And it should also be mentioned that health care homes are struggling with the obligation to organise activities such as healthcare, I must mention them as well as some other activities in less developed environments where the HZZO pays for these procedures a miserable fee that does not even cover fuel costs, e.g. Clay, Pakrac, Dalmatian Zagora, etc. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97312	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97313	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I wanted to get some rest, but I was squirming with, namely here I often get mentioned, so I have to get back to clarify some things a little bit better, repeat the material, not bad for bad students. I said at the very beginning of the debate that I would like not to react arrogantly and arrogantly but rather to discuss the measure of things, to discuss the data, to discuss what you said yourself, you yourself wrote, you promised. Instead, instead of answering, we got personal insults, we got a violation of every ethics, so we got one hate speech, comparison with animals, lack of dignity and dignity of one function, as the minister, president, vice president and prime minister. And in fact, the same thing that Serbian radicals have done in the Belgrade Assembly in their own time who have insisted that Stjepan Radic be taken for medical examination because he doesn't know what he's saying. This is what we witnessed here today from the mouth of someone who would like to be a role model in this country. And I'm really sorry that the debate went in this direction which is why those who would like to present themselves as some successful politicians, ministers, prime ministers have no argument other than primitives. In short, the program here is credible that you yourself wrote in the section of health 87 to 89 pages, I was talking about your program and what you have done so far. How you answered me, you know that. Here's the rate of deaths from cancer, official statistics from the Ministry of Health where we see more and more people die year after year. If you've answered, we've seen it in a way. However, okay, maybe someone is not a doctor, but I'm surprised that one person who is not only a doctor but is an academic in the field of healthcare calls me and is unable to master a single report, written a report by the Council of Europe on the condition of a psychiatric hospital for children in a clinical hospital in which he clearly writes, I blushed, I can give you if you want to see that from a hospital 2 years ago, at the address of 9 institutions in Croatia have sent a dramatic appeal about the impossible conditions to care for mentally ill children, and one of the addresses was that of the female attorney Laura Vidovic, who went into the test and saw that mentally ill children with children who tried suicide, along with them and their depressed, aggressive peers, children with personality disorder, autists, who have anorexia, who have psychotic outbursts, that the minors in the closed ward remain and when they don't need to be treated. That's what I said, Vice President of the Parliament, and that's what it says here. You called me, I'm sorry. [[I have to tell you right now, you are now abusing a situation that I cannot answer.]] You've called me, you've called me, you've called me, you've changed yours. All right, trade in with your fellow whistler. [[Intruder Reiner: Let it go to your conscience.]] And then after that, it says that the attorney general sent a warning to the Ministry of Health that they were in a hurry to secure new spaces. For two years, Minister Kujundzic has not responded. It's a measure of gentlemen, not fiction, insult and what you're doing here. I'm sorry you got down to that level. You've always said that you're kind and we're rude, but it's the opposite. We speak nicely to you on the basis of the data and you with us rudely, vulgarly and dirtyly. That's your level. Well, then you might want to show that you're a little different if you're able to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97314	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, five minutes, and I'm sorry, we have one replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague Bunjac, I'm looking at your history doctorate, but I haven't heard this kind of nonsense for a long time about what kind of mental health protection you've been talking about in children and young people. So you've already mentioned that bonding with healthy children, applying physical force within psychiatry is something that is normal, even people who have certain mental disorders themselves are asking to be mechanically slowed down because they can endanger their or other health. Don't make dangerous statements as a public person and make dangerous statements, but you did it when there was a vaccination talk, now you're saying it again. Take the Council of Europe report the problem is about inadequate spaces. There is no problem with what you are saying and it needs to be resolved, this hospital is specifically owned by the City of Zagreb and the Ministry of Health is constantly working on strengthening where we are the deficiting issue of the psychiatry of adolescent children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97316	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97317	Thank you again, Agent Cellic. So I didn't say anything, I read the report. Therefore, please respond to those who have drawn up this Report, and I am sorry that you are reacting so angryly, this, why you are not reacting as angryly to your Prime Minister who personally harassed you because you did not want to vote for this convention that is so important to him, that he persecuted you in a very inhuman way just like on a personal level, etc., by portals he sent articles about you, photos, so, this one, I think you could at least be so solid, so realize that the enemy is actually the same. That's one man, that's one man who doesn't really respect humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97318	Now, on behalf of the government, the Honored Minister of Health, Milan Kujundzic, will speak on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97319	Look, I think we need to talk, but we need to know to talk with truth, arguments, knowledge and deception. I personally have many times to say I don't know it and I don't comment on it. And you today, Mr. Representative, have given several times out of ignorance, and in Roman law say ignorance doesn't justify, if it uses false information, where you said that the Croatian health system has 40 million, I will teach you or leave you alone, when we're on that number we'll be a happy nation. I hope we get there, but I'm afraid it'll take us a lot of years to get to 40 million. The second thing you said wrong, you said we didn't respond to the Ministry. So, not only did the Ministry respond to the Ombudsman, but the Ministry intervened both in writing and in particular and in a number of positive things have happened in that hospital since that time and the intervention and the third and most important perhaps what is important here, the problem of child psychiatry accommodation is a major problem for Croatian or Zagreb health care, and of course we also meant when we were rushing to build a National Children's Hospital that will start building in the middle of next year. So, I invite you all together, without a personal, with a smile nice argument let's talk, but use the exact references, don't speak wrong, if you don't know, ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97320	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97321	Thank you very much, Minister Kujundzic. So, Croatian healthcare spends 40 billion kunas, you kept saying 40 million. When I was talking, I was talking about the total amount of funds spent on healthcare, including HZZO, the Ministry of Health, additional health insurance and other funds spent on health care. Finally, the official data is that 6.5% of GDP is spent. Another thing about this psychiatric hospital, I said you haven't intervened in two years, now you've announced, so you called in after two years, but the problem hasn't been solved yet. I'm sure and firmly believe that your predecessors would have done something in your place in two years. I think that Mr. Varga and all those ministers who were before, they weren't, either, I don't know how capable, but I think that something about it, that data is really quite alarming and I think you've waited too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97322	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97323	Dear Minister Kujundzic, I'd like to ask you one thing. Namely, the father of Mate Ruzic, who died in Zapresic, asked who would be responsible for his son's death. The reason he asked that question was that the team that came here, Sanitarily, came to the scene with a delay and came without adequate equipment or did not have what they needed. And finally, one central question was asked, if the emergency in Zapresic worked well, which is why two additional medical services teams and two doctors and two nurses were employed, so I am interested in the responsibility of who would answer for the death of Mateo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97324	Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97325	As a doctor in principle, names or names of patients or deceaseds are always reluctant to speak in a specific case to the public, this is not said in public. However, since you have made a public inquiry, then I will answer you publicly. So, I spoke to my father personally more than the late young patient Mate Ruzic. Unfortunately, the nature of his illness is such that the answer lies why he, why he died. So, if he was at that moment in the O.R., the same thing would happen, if you want a little bit more about medicine, I can tell you later, so I'll explain to you what kind of joke was going on, what kind of arrhythmias were going on, and why the sudden deaths were going on. And you've registered this well, no one's claiming that the E.R. is ideal and that it doesn't need to be better and that we're working on that trail where there's going to be more teams coming out faster and who'll be better educated than they are now. However, in order to do so, a prerequisite had to be made Because you can't do anything besides the law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97326	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97327	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Kujundzic, we're going back to the Immunulological Institute. First I asked you a question as far away as possible, then I asked you as soon as possible. Here, which is the taste of my question, therefore, about the Immunological Institute Regulation, which I asked you, I don't know if you know what it says in that Regulation, the Regulation comes from the SDP, it's been done by two bodies, there's one health section that has one section on property, it consists of two parts. The first part is to establish an institution, done well. On the other hand, this part that was made of DUDI speaks about how property will be transferred, because the company is 80% owned by the state which of CERPA, HZZO, HZMO, I don't know what the immediate property is, and 20% are small shareholders. Why did the 2016 attempt to solve this schizophrenic situation fail? Because the problem of small shareholders has not been solved, so I asked you... /incomprehensible/... among other things, the one for plasma, with the property that will be with the small shareholders and how you will solve that problem, because you announced that you would cross over [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] from a company to an institution, means the company ceases [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97328	Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97329	Thank you very much, very good of you to ask this question, just so it doesn't stay in the Croatian public. So, even at the time of socialism, the immune institution was working, in today's language, as a stockholder society. He was not a system of a network of hospitals, homes of health, so he was, and at that time, conditioned for that time, a profitable, profitable company, and it continued from the '90s to here until he got into such big problems that they went to rescue, so the SDP government was going to save by model so that they could pay these people their salaries, then they also established an institution through which the health ministry was about to pay around 30 million workers a year. And now it comes to what you said, so now it's this capitalisation where these people or they're going to need to buy out shares or leave them as co-owners in the percentage of which they're going to be in a newly rated system when they're placed immunologically on their feet. So you've figured out exactly where the problem is being solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97330	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97331	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, you have finished your presentation with a sentence: if you do not know, please report. Among other things, you said that in the middle of next year, they would start to reconstruct or build a national children's hospital. I'd be the luckiest person in the world to do that, but trust me. There's no patient who's gonna come into cardiac surgery and say, look, I need hearts, but I've got three hours, so at three o'clock what you do, you do. So, if for the term of office of this government that hospital gets all the necessary permits and you choose a performer you've done a terrible lot and then I'll be the first one to say you've done a terrible lot, but I'll have experience when it was a two Milans project that didn't end up very famously and this is a two Milan project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97332	The reply of the Honorable Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97333	Independent Madam MPs how you humorously name it as this project is called, this is a project this government is about to do. It's a project where and now it's headed directly into two let's call them roads. One road is a feasibility study and an application to EU funds, where 100% security is or almost 100% security that we will receive money from the EU, and on the other hand we are preparing and the international competition of an idea project, an implementation project will be launched for the coming weeks and we think it is realistic. We, I personally know that you are from these waters as I know conditionally said a little bit more about medicine You know a lot more about it than I do but I don't think the administration will be able to make any problems there because it's over the interest of the national, there's nothing illegal there and trust me that next year, symbolically speaking in June there will start working. And the round orientation value interrupts the new... /incomprehensible/... 50m euros already secured by defacto.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97334	Now, on behalf of the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives, a respected representative of Giovanni Sponza will speak. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97335	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow representatives, our club, IDS, PGS and LRI will support the recall of the Minister of Health for four key reasons. First, Croatia's health care is in poor condition. Two, we have a system where quality falls. The third, which the health minister failed to define health policy and the fourth, which the minister cannot provide with the necessary consensus, in particular the profession, as well as health reform policies. The position of our club is that the health system is in a large staff, financial, infrastructure and organisational crisis and the key issue is the failure of the system and therefore the responsibility of the health minister. We are constantly warning of the overload and lack of medical and medical staff, hospital duty, poor working conditions, long waiting lists, and the consequences are as follows: that we have an inefficient and poorly set health system, that we have a system resulting in the loss of professional health and medical staff, that we have a system that generates long waiting lists, that we have a system where the quality of services comes down, and that we come to the responsibility of the Minister of Health. I would like to make it clear that Mr Kujundzic, in a period during which the minister, on the one hand, presented a precise analysis of the situation, pointed out everything that was wrong and, on the other hand, presented the direction of necessary changes, presented the measures to which the system could be changed, presented the effects of the measures and keyly, that he said that he was ready to implement with his team the necessary reform of the health system, we today would not discuss the recalling of the minister, on the contrary, in this almost 2 years of his actions, and I repeat that he cannot achieve the necessary consensus of the profession as well as the policies on health reform. The minister has defined himself as a system in which, unfortunately, both professional and competent doctors will continue to leave Croatia, in which the citizens will remain suspended due to long waiting lists. Health care is one of the basic public institutions, which form the foundation of the social state, the quality of health care and the well-being of users and patients, is the ultimate purpose of the health system. Therefore, every health policy holder in Croatia, which is in this correct case Minister Kujundzic, should not forget to manage one of the most important resources in society, which is the portfolio, which takes care of the general well-being of our citizens. I will repeat in the Croatian health system, serious changes are needed, which Minister Kujundzic cannot achieve, and therefore our club will vote in favour of the minister's recall.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97336	Thank you very much. Here, on behalf of the government, will now be spoken by the respected Minister Milan Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97337	I thank Mr. Representative. Of course I respect the club's decision and it's normal in democracy, regardless of the reasons why people from individual parties or as individuals opt for this or that variant. And it doesn't matter at the end, it doesn't matter at the end, whether the current health minister goes away or not, but what matters is that the people of Istria are told next, that it's important to say it in the House, if it wasn't for this government hospital in Pula wouldn't have been built. So this government has secured the money and that's why construction and completion will go on. And more importantly, on you is the only one, and only, therefore, the county, Istria is responsible, whether or not there will be a hospital in northern Istria. So, money from EU funds is secured, people are far away to travel down to Pula, normal model is when money exists, make a daily hospital, where gastroscopy, colonoscopy, ultrasound heart, ultrasound breast, gynaecological examinations, psychiatry, ophthalma etc. I don't know why you refuse, why you stare, don't do it to your people, and if this minister is going to leave... It doesn't matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97338	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, you're a little late.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97339	I wasn't late, but you weren't looking, I was holding it up, you were looking down and then.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97340	All right, come on, all right, we'll tolerate everything, but whoever picked it up on time is in any case a colleague of Sponza, please. Don't forgive me, Comrade Sponza, but you, and your colleague Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97341	Mr. Minister, you said nicely at the beginning that everyone has a right to their position. According to the tonality, I felt you were a little upset, which I don't think is necessary. I didn't go to personal level, I was already talking about arguments. As for the people of Istria, the people of Istria have been waiting patiently for 20 years to begin building a general hospital in Pula. The people of Istria, through the unit of local self-government, are very much involved in co-financing the construction of the General Hospital of Pula, unlike some other areas in the Republic of Croatia, where we have always shown both understanding and solidarity. The people of Istria are paying and co-financed by team T1 and teams T2 which you know very well. Next to this, I just want to tell you that this system, as it is set up, and as far as emergency medical teams are concerned, and it concerns both the county and local self-government units, has become unsustainable in Istria, so we need to change the system, and then we'll agree to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97342	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97343	Your Honor, you spoke about a national children's hospital. I don't know if I get it right, if I'm not, correct me. You said that the National Children's Hospital should be built in 2019. The document available means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows on your impeachment, it clearly states that the tender will be 31.10.2018 and will be considered with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, Jaspers, the possibility of building such a hospital of 130m euros. We are currently unable to change the operational programme, the only one through which this could be financed, competitiveness and cohesion, but only in the new financial period 20201-2027. this project I welcome would be possible to finance. I hope we can get this technical documentation ready by 2020, so please respond, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97344	Thank you. Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97345	Thank you very much, Madam Representative, you of course understand yourself well in funds, have worked or worked in that world, and then you know well. So Croatian children don't have time to wait. And as we gave the state a guarantee for Pula, for Rijeka, the state will also give a guarantee for the start of construction and provide a means. And these people who understand themselves a little bit more in the building, they know that early stages of work cost the least. So, rough construction works are about 200 euros per square metre or translated into 50,000 square meters, how much the area of the children's hospital and maternity facility would take 20 million, 10 million, a lapus, 10 million euros, which is a relatively small amount, why the state can give a guarantee that the construction takes place in the 6th month of next year. And then in this period of '21. In the '30s, or '27. When those money comes, that loan closes, and then we'll pay a year, two small interest rates that it's relatively no loss.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97346	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97347	Dear Minister, all we heard from you today is that something will be resolved, that it will be, that in the process, so practically nothing has been done in this period. And when you talk about these daily hospitals, there will be a daily hospital in Metkovic or when you talk about Pula here, so the problem is that even now the doctors from Rijeka are going to Pula because of the lack of medical staff, that the patients, for that reason, are also going from Istria to Rijeka. That's the problem, and it's going to be in Metkovic with a daily hospital, no one's talking about it. The first thing you've reduced your capacities, so that's the day hospital, that's one pre-election promise, the question is, what's it going to be, how many doctors we're going to have available at all, that's what the problem is and you're just talking about some kind of promise, it's going to be, here in the process we're, now we're going to, I think what citizens have out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97348	Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97349	Now, as a doctor, I have to regrettably, if there is anyone here from the natives, to express my concern about whether you are hearing well, so I've listed 100 things that we've already done and you've obviously heard them out. ... I'll give you a list later, if you don't hear it, I'll give it to you in writing, I'll give it to you in writing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what you played down in Metkovic so that you two thousand square meters for the day hospital wouldn't be so much, there's no rib. So the money exists, the daily hospital in Metkovic will be made and it will be another result of this government in a healthy sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97350	He's a friend of Grumo's. You're already, you've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, not three times because I'm going to have to take your word for it. ... You do what you think. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97351	In violation of Article 238, we didn't play in Metkovic, your HDZs and your mayor, who you yourself said played a game here. I didn't play or promise anything. That's what your parents promised and now they've reduced their capacity. They played, I didn't play, but HDZ, Shucker, they played, as you play and pre-name, probably so little.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97352	Okay. Comrade Grmoi, I am forced to take away your word until the end of the debate. I should have done it last time, I was benevolent to you, but apparently it's not worth it with some people being benevolent. ... Yeah, ha, ha, there he is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can do some excess, and you can go home early. He's still got a replica of the esteemed representative Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97353	Dear Minister Kujundzic, writes to me Damir Zhaja, his child received spinraza in the 6th month for spinal muscle atrophy. But what's the problem? The next dose was due a month ago. So he was supposed to get that medicine again four weeks ago, but he didn't get it. And at the Split hospital, they still haven't answered him when it's gonna be. So here I am as minister, as an adequate person who should be referred to the problem of asking when will the people who should have received the medicine and have not yet received it, or the next dose of the medicine when it will be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97354	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97355	Of course I'm not answering the patient's name, I'm talking about organization in principle. So spinraza is a medicine that is given for spinal muscle atrophy only in one place in the country of Croatia, it is the reference centre of the neuropediatria on the Rebr. I'll check it out, but the funds are secure, and I don't know why it would be. And by the way, when we've already opened medically, it means, nothing, if it's a few days later because the spinraze model, nothing's going to happen, but that doesn't mean in any way that I won't check and see why if it's not why it's not and when it's going to get.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97356	Thank you. Now we're going back to the proposer. On behalf of the promoter Željko Jovanovic, 5 min. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97357	Thank you very much, President. Col. Sponza summed it up nicely that our health care system, the health care system, has a staff, financial, infrastructure and organisational crisis, and that actually means a management crisis and for the management crisis is the most responsible health minister. So far, we have presented different segments of our request. I will focus in this section on the part that concerns the very burning problem without which the health care system will not be, for nothing to us all the hospitals we will build from EU funds if there are no health workers. Therefore, we have pointed out in particular that there are no incentive measures in the current period for the remainder of healthcare workers in Croatia such as enabling the award of healthcare workers with greater labour, commitment in the Government for material, immaterial rights of health workers, apartment, mangers, kindergartens, schools, scholarships etc. And then interestingly, we get a response from the government saying in point 21 of the incentive measures for staying health workers. And I'm a doctor, and I'm glad that this is how well it says what is meant to be done in order to improve and remain a doctor or dear colleague and colleagues so that they didn't remember in one sentence to mention that there are other healthcare professionals, so a vain doctor if he doesn't have a quality nurse or other medical staff. But read on page 10, paragraph 21 no mention of any other healthcare professional other than a doctor. And that's enough talking about our health minister. So many researches have shown that our young doctors do not leave primarily because of pay. The pay's only in third place. In the first place, the reason for going abroad is better working conditions and second-quality system organisation. So we keep going back to management. However, an even bigger problem than the lack of a doctor is the problem of the rest and the deficit of the rest of the medical staff for which no solution is offered in this explanation, and so far nothing has been done and since they have completely forgotten in their reasoning, it is truly devastating. I have to look back here at what the minister keeps repeating and disinforming the public, and that's the question of medical-laboratory diagnostics. Therefore, it is incorrect that the study programme has been carried out without prior examination of the need for health care because the need for educational staff in the field of medical-laboratory diagnostics and these are to the various most basic health care facilities guaranteed by the Constitution. It is incorrect that the Minister of Science had anything to do with the approval of the study because the study was granted by a positive opinion of the Agency for Science and Higher Education in accordance with Article 20(10) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education. It is also incorrect that we do not need it for the simple reason that, with the Law on Medical Biochemical Activity, there is a whole range of areas of medical-laboratory diagnostics that simply end medical biochemical activity do not work. So it's hematology, cytology, transfusions, pathology, microbiology, immunology, serology, molecular diagnostics, and it's the area where the masters of medical biochemical diagnostics can do the highest quality work to improve healthcare in Croatia. Also, if we look at the Bologna process and look at the guidelines of the European Association of Professionals in Biomedicine, then it clearly states that medical-laboratory diagnostics ends in integrated education with master's and doctoral levels. So, one appeal that the minister is showing I don't know why it's completely wrong and here, I've been asking him for a good reason all along and I'm appealing to help these children who have completed the studies of medical-laboratory diagnostics, who can work already today, here's an example, and I'm going to say the name, Marko Dorutić, who finished that study in Osijek, went to Ireland where he immediately got a confession that he could work there. Therefore, there is no valid reason other than that of Minister Kujundzic that the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics in the latest amendments to the law, the entry and the law on activities and the possibility of employment in the Republic of Croatia, I ask him on behalf of them most sincerely.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97358	We have two replicas, the first is Vice President Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Jovanovic, you've left the topic a little bit, but I see there's a broader topic, and since you're one of the proposings, and it wasn't in this proposal at all, the story of medical and laboratory technicians, but there is, it says that the growth of the mortality of chronic non-infectious diseases, and that's one of the minister's accusations that he's hiding it. It is simply not true, you probably know as a doctor that the most common non-infectious diseases are cardiovascular diseases that were 53, 54% of the death spells in Croatia 10 years ago, and then what you wrote as one of the reasons why the minister should be replaced is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97360	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97361	Comrade Reiner, it's clear now that you've replicated something I haven't said at all. So I was just talking about the problem and lack of medical personnel in the Republic of Croatia, it was the topic of my address on behalf of the promoter so I don't know how you came to the topic of chronic non-infectious diseases and it's clear that Croatia is still lagging behind all the indicators we have in Europe where chronic non-infectious diseases are a minor problem and, unfortunately, in Croatia, still very large. So I was talking about the problem of medical-laboratory diagnostics, the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics who, by amending the laws that are ahead of us, in the legislative package, should be able to work in the Republic of Croatia because right now they can work across Europe, and our goal is to keep our healthcare professionals in Croatia and I don't understand what the recruitment and prevention of people who have finished schooling in Croatia can't stay working in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97362	Dear fellow Kopic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97363	... Honored Ministers. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I am personally interested in my colleague Jovanovic as a person who comes to the end from the region of Slavonia and Osijek, you spoke about a study of medical-laboratory diagnostics. You're saying the minister didn't have the authority to give permission to study himself. You're saying it's the Agency for Higher Education. So as far as I know, I think that the agency itself is in the intelligence of the Ministry of Science itself and why no particular procedure has been done, certain steps to create the conditions for these young people who finish that study to have every opportunity to get a job and not at the end of a study that is not adequate and that ultimately produces new young people, who will eventually not be able to find a job that is right today. I think that the ministry is primarily responsible, on the other hand they're left behind in some way then the cowardly egg and some other possible structures, or maybe there's a possibility that it's a problem for some others to be employed, to move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97364	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97365	So, colleague Kopić, read the Law on Scientific Activity in Higher Education, read the accreditation process, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, is a completely independent body and is therefore founded that the minister could not in any way influence it. The Agency for Science and Higher Education is therefore one of the most qualified agencies accredited by the most rigorous criteria and which is in fact an example of how such an agency in the higher education system should function has approved the establishment of this study and has been brought in after the medical staff department of medical-laboratory diagnostics has been investigated in the chamber, the need for their establishment. So, the need exists, laboratories are being closed and their activity is in no way jeopardising the engineers and masters of medical and biochemical activities whose lobbyes together with the minister are holding back the possibility of masters of medical laboratory diagnostics to work in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97366	We are now going to the debate of the Living Walls Club and the SNAGA and colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97367	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that ruling is right when they say that the resources that are being allocated to health care are getting bigger and bigger. And I'm going to read you a message that I received, and it says like this: I went to a magnetic resonance in the 7th month of 2018, so it's a frigid thing, which I couldn't get a medical appointment for for the next 2 years. So it's clear on the magnetic resonance has to wait two years, so I got an appointment within 15 days at the private polyclinic and that was on the health burden. Is that not enough proof that money is being poured into the private sector, and this is actually funding private health care through the legal health system? What's this about? It is that instead of buying an adequate number of MRI devices, which would have been shortened waiting, the state does not do so but instead pays private polyclinics a large amount of money to do what should have been done by public health. And then we have an absurd situation. So we have a situation where Mr. Kujundzic says rightly spends more and more money but on the other hand the citizens say that, but we wait 2 years for the review, we were ordered in 2012 as the Odysseus in space. Here's another example, we're going back to the death of Mate Ruzic in Zapresic. First of all, he was waiting for a patient for a very long time, the arrival of an ambulance. Second, it was not an emergency vehicle, but a sanity vehicle that had no doctor and had no medicine to help him. Of course, this medicine had no one to prepare, or give, because it was to be done by a doctor. Since the public was indignant, since there was also a protest in Zapresic, it is clear that the emergency assistance team in Zapresic did not function adequately. And by taking two new emergency teams, so two doctors and two nurses were removed. So it was admitted de facto that the ambulance didn't work the way it was supposed to on the one hand. However, false thesis is imposed, which is that the inadequate functioning of the emergency room had absolutely nothing to do with the death of Mate Ruzic, and that it was an unfortunate accident that he was the man in the hospital so that the same thing would happen to him. That doesn't sound convincing to me personally, but if the HDZ gentlemen, Bandic Milan 365, HNS and minorities, that explains it, that's your choice. But I'm going back to the beginning of the story and your tendency to spend more money. Yes, more money is spent but there is no elemental thing like normal emergency care functioning, or tragedy first happens and then tries to patch up the system, etc. I cited during the discussion the third problem is the problem that children who get spinraza, or who are approved, have received one dose but have not received another dose after 2 months. Says Mr. Kujundzic, so it's no problem if a few days late, so you can't talk like that. It's like, say, that's what your minister used to say, so it's not a problem for oil workers if they're a few days late. But of course, if you're sick of something, you won't probably be late for treatment, you'll probably get on time, you'll probably get paid on time, etc. And just from your point of view, the problem with these people doesn't seem to be urgent and acute. Also, I would like to stress that health care personnel really do not have enough to leave the country because wages are too low. The doctors are underpaid and the nurses are underpaid. That's part of the problem. The second part of the problem is that the food in hospitals is a disaster. I'm telling you this from experience. I personally worked in Germany in Furstenfeldruck, when I saw the food there I was wondering if this was my hotel. It was not clear to me how the public health system in Germany has so much better nutrition than we do. Says Mr. Franjo Lucic, he's saying it's not true. But I was a living witness, and I saw what was coming. You get a dinner at the Croatian hospital, here's a patient's picture, you get two pints of white bread, you get an acidophile, and you get a gnome of one, a cheddar of cheese and a cheddar of some kind of salami. There's dinner at the Croatian hospital. And I don't know what their quota is, whether it's a quota to spend 3 kunas, 3.5 kunas on a meal, I think it's inadequate. Of course, the minister will argue that everything is fine, that there is no problem. He'll say that the food given to patients in hospitals is good. However, many patients have a great skepticism against his claims, and among them as a parliamentary representative who, among other things, was alone at the time, each of us was sooner or later in the hospital and saw how it works, etc. Except for everything I've mentioned, I'd like to introduce another topic, and that's health corruption. So the man writes to me that in Slavonski boat at the hospital, for employment in, say, a job has to pay 4.5 thousand euros. Whether it has to be paid or not, I don't know. I can't argue that it's true what a man is saying, but knowing how the HDZ system works wouldn't surprise me if it was really looking for money to work in jobs, whether it was highways, whether it was another institution or eventually a hospital. I call on the minister to deal with corruption in health care and, unfortunately, he's in no condition and I'll explain why he's in no condition. Well, he's in no condition because the system itself is corrupt. A system where you can't come in for a reasonable period of time, so it's not a normal system. If you need a search today and you're told come in two years, so what does that mean? What does it mean for a patient, ladies and gentlemen? You're actually making long waiting lists of patients, making patients actually bribe doctors to get their turn early. Either some other person inside the system because the person is clear, or you're gonna pay or you're gonna wait two years. And we all know how the system works. And it is clear that until the waiting list is reduced it will not be solved nor the corruption problem. But the question, I would call it outsourcing public health is actually the crucial problem of this government because outsourcing health services has done two things. Or, for example, he made it possible for the patient to heal himself, to get the service he was looking for, but in the process, some privateer earned a lot of money. The role of public health is not that state money goes to private entities. The role of public health is that it is non-profit, that the system works in a way that patients are treated without creating profit and profit. But as I explained because of the long waiting lists, you're actually pushing that system. There's one more thing I'd like to point out here. Although in the Nordic countries the fillings of living are banned because it has been calculated that the biggest reason why the live entry into the environment is these black fillings, in Croatia and today the public health system requires patients to pay for the white fillings if they do not want the animals’ fillings. So is it normal for you ministers that white fillings must be paid when we know that these animals are toxic to both the environment and the patient? And why is that? Because today at the Faculty of dentistry and not using these fillings, the system has evolved entirely. The system has moved in 50 years but your head and your health system hasn't moved, it still works as well as 30 or 40 years ago. And that's a problem that you also refuse to see or see. All these reasons are clear evidence of your incompetence or inability to face reality. And in the end, we return to the subject of who supports you and for what reasons, that is, whether the ruling majority of you supports you really because they believe that you are a good minister or for some other reason. What is even more frantic is that the number of inhabitants in Croatia is rapidly falling and yet the waiting list is growing, which means that public health is actually collapsing. And one more thing I'm going to say, not only is the public health system currently doesn't give adequate care, we've seen it in the case of Zapresic, we see an example of magnetic resonance, we see an example of what happens to adults who suffer from spinal muscle atrophy. What, they don't need a spin? Why doesn't that question open? Well, don't open it 'cause there's no will to open it. Of course, you'll say the system works well. You know how my grandfather used to say, he died, Emil Pernar, he says to me, Ivan, we have the best health care system in the world for healthy people. That was his comment. And from your perspective if a healthy person's health system works out perfectly, however, the reality is that he failed and that no one is responsible and that big money is figuratively evaporated. And I'd like to mention one more thing. It's about Dr. Stimec from Rijeka who's being removed from his position even though he's a top surgeon and even though he's the first in the world to have a 3D printed spine. It's about a top expert. And he's, he's out of position, not because he didn't know how to do his job, not because he didn't have the support of patients who were indisputably there but only because someone else was more like management and was subsequently removed. And you have a situation that the director of home health is a veterinarian, so the animal doctor. You have a situation that the plumber is the principal of the library. These are all anomalies of a system that HDZ won't and cannot solve because the whole system is to say the anomaly itself, it's not a normal system. And what citizens are interested in, it's not how much more money you spend, it's like Ivo Sanader coming in and saying, "Listen, you're spending now on health care 100 billion kuna more." I don't care how much more money is spent. Citizens are interested in why you wait 2 years for a magnetic resonance, why adults are suffering from spinal muscle atrophy, can't get therapy. Why the ambulance works in a way that by the time she gets to the patient's death, those are issues that the public is interested in. And if it's true that much more money is spent, I don't know if you mentioned 20% even without patients seeing it, there's a question of where that money is going, and that's the question that we're asking here today it's about a question that there's no meaningful and reasonable answer. Because we see that technology, and in dentistry, doesn't change with the flow of time, we see that modern diagnostic apparatus, instead of getting it from the Ministry of Health, is being sent to private people who earn a lot of money. These are inadmissible things for that reason we from the Living Wall are looking for your shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97368	Now let's go to the motionary debate, 5 minutes, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97369	Thank you, President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with co-workers, the health system should be sustainable, should be effective and health care, quality and accessible to every human, every patient, that is, a patient in the centre of the system and around it should be organised, that he should really have available health care and be the quality at that level that meets the criteria of the EU standards, and then so should the patients in Croatia Evo, nor is health care available in Croatia equal to or equal quality, and therefore one of the reasons why we in HSS and myself should personally have to change ministers. I've already said that the primary protection system, health care, has been torn down for reasons because of the 886 health teams in 56 missing a family doctor, the leader of this team. That's over 100,000 of our fellow citizens, if we need 1700, 1800 patients, I speak well, of which only here in Posavina County, we lack 6 doctors of family medicine. And you'll say and that's the inherited problem, I agree it's part of the inherited health problems, but it's been two years and we don't see a shift, we can't personally explain to my neighbor there, or my friend in the infirmary in... why there is no doctor today and he will come the day after tomorrow or must only be next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How to explain to that grandmother that she does not have a doctor and that she must, if something hurts to go to Slavonski Brod or to Nova Gradiška. It's simply an unsustainable state and there must be models to solve it. It's not our opposition's fault that 600 doctors left the system, which 1200 announced leaving, means that there's something in that system that doesn't match those doctors' expectations, whether it's the wages, the equipment, the ability to advance, the specialization, even though here, we've heard positive shifts in that direction. But it's not our fault, and we're especially afraid, the ones who live in rural areas, which by statistics, more than 4,000 doctors, are going to retire for 10 years. So the system will collapse further. Well, you can't let the mayors of the municipalities be human hunters. A family doctor should be resolved, a pediatrician, a logopede, a veterinarian should be resolved, teachers or teachers should be resolved. All of this needs the chief, and what this system has done, that the chief does not have to buy an apartment or some other conveniences to attract the staff. We haven't heard, I mentioned in earlier discussions, that health homes, which were an example of well-organized primary health care in the Republic of Croatia versus the environment and that this system had collapsed and that you didn't give tools to the directors of health homes, that rewards for those who work and that they could organize weekend and mortuary duty, that the consignors refused to do so, and now here, by changing the law you announce, a guy if they can organise it. However, the system has not worked and the health directors are in major financial problems. I will not praise or name anyone now, but an example from my environment, that over a million kn, the director of the home health can not fulfil these obligations for electricity, water, gas, etc. And what's even worrying is that he spent the funds, for example for dentists, on jobs they did where they contracted with a home of health and with HZZ, that they were means of purpose and that within 3 days HZZO had to pay the home of health to them. Ask health homes how many debts, dental technicians, and they spent both material and invested their time. And I can't pay my salary. Simply this system is thus unsustainable unless we strengthen our homes of health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97370	Thank you. Comrade Squirt, replica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97371	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, colleague Vlaovic, you mentioned well in your debate, this is one collapse of the health care home system, something that Croatia has been known for, and in the world frameworks and homes of health, unfortunately, is reduced to exclusively a concession facility, and then we have one, unfortunately, and the powerlessness of regional self-government that can't, since there is still one system that exists at country level that can't organise it in an adequate way and the other thing that you've said well is that there's a lot that's been reduced to local self-government today, but you need to know that local self-government in Croatia has very different fiscal capacity and we know that some local units can afford a lot, and others can't. All would, of course, like to have the same funding and logos and pediatricians, but we are not able to, of course, solve it at country level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97372	Here's a reply from my colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97373	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you that not all units of local self-government are in the same situation because their fiscal capacity is not the same, and we in HSSS have advocated that one right of decentralisation be made in Croatia and that on the unit of local self-government other than the obligations of descent and funds. Partly it was done through the last tax reform, but now here are the new tax measures and laws that have been taken again by 270 million kunas, from which they will have the means to stimulate the doctor's arrival in their environment, veterinarian or some professor, it is simply unsustainable, and when it comes to health homes and these problems certainly are not all health homes in the same situation as equipment. In some health care facility, you can do most of the search, while in those rural areas you have nothing. And everything has to come back to Brod, Zagreb or somewhere else. Let's just decentralize it a little bit and allow the patient [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that he has available health care. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97374	Now it's time for the club of representatives of HSU's esteemed colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97375	Thank you, well-respected Croatian Parliament of Presidents, distinguished Ministers Kujundzic, colleagues and colleagues, club GLAS and HSU will support the proposal by colleagues and colleagues to vote against the Minister of Health or Health, Mr Kujundzic, or we will vote in favour of his impeachment. Why? So far, we've heard a whole series of arguments on behalf of the promoter being said but all these arguments can be summed up into one thing. In this failed government that deals with everything but its work, Minister Kujundzic is the most unsuccessful, and such a failed minister cannot afford nor is he a resistor and at least health care. Our public health was in its golden age pride and export product we are absolutely aware that times change that need to be adjusted, but not so that the quality and availability of health care and the price of service keeps falling. On the other hand, Croatia has live and developed private health care whose capacity is at all or too little to use in seeing and overcoming difficulties such as long waiting lists and inaccessibility of diagnostics and treatment. We have this one program that brings out every debate we have and every debate we have, individually and grouply, the most common words that are used. I am sure that from this debate, one of the most common words that this programme will be able to draw will be long waiting lists, inaccessibility of diagnostics and treatment and the question of what health care will serve if not patients. When in all the golden tradition of public health and untapped private health with dying people on the road, because there is no emergency, when all this is summed up, the time has come for the minister to leave. What is one of the sins, sin is indignity, sin is indignity, sin is when you don't do your job, and I have to admit that at some point I may have expected Minister Kujundzic to recognize it and leave alone, but he didn't do it and something that would be the most normal thing in a decent and normal developed state wouldn't be discussed in general about his impeachment, but here we go at three and he's already depending on late evenings will be debated. It is a pity that Prime Minister Plenkovic also did not recognise that the moment was because let us not, at no time, interfere with the fact that the main responsibility is not only for Minister Kujundzic, but also for the one who chose him, accepted and who has consistently defended him, regardless of his actions and statements are indefensible. By the way, Minister Kujundzic, let me say one sentence. You are already one in a series of ministers where the opposition is demanding departure and each time the prime minister was from the beginning to the end. For the first time, the prime minister came to the opening and went, he knows probably the reasons, and you might wonder why. Health homes and primary health care have already been said a lot, but should we say in a sentence that characterizes it. This characterizes them together that they became a collection of instructions and excuses. Instead of really starting to work to strengthen their role in real healing people. The only thing that happened in that part was a scandalous bill that has put the whole of Croatia on its feet. And that bill made double damage again. People got scared into the bones that it was a complete killing of public health, so it was a debate of all people that it was a complete killing of public health, and on the other hand you're from a private who has and has to have places to make a total bogeyman. So, you haven't solved the problem, and you've opened two new hips, people scared that public health won't be anymore, and the privates you could use with their capacities, knowledge and experience, they've become grandmother horns for everyone and God forbid we say we're gonna use privates. But that's how you do it when you ignore your job. Your solution that we have the opportunity to hear all the time is give more money and give a little more money, so it will cost more extra, so we will give more for a health contribution, so we will introduce a health tax on luxury, so cigarettes and alcohol will collect 50%, so the visit to the Emergency will be charged. But have you come up with one single idea of how to reduce unnecessary costs in the system, how to make it efficient, how to make it better organized, how to better deploy services, how to organize networks of health homes and hospitals that have to do with the real needs of people? You're not ministers. And what needs to be a message, and we don't want to give any more for the system you run. Among other things, I asked the prime minister a very simple question which was clearly articulated to tell me one single idea that you plan to cut unnecessary costs in the system and that one single idea was based on a national children's hospital located at the former university, or whatever we call it, it was a hospital at the end of town. I really don't dare when I go to the slightest doctor's story that I tell him that I think what's wrong with me, to say that I should be cured, and even less dare say that I have three hours now, so in three hours we do, we succeed, which we don't. You are quite safe and confident from this pay phone several times said in the sixth month of 2019 we start with the works. In doing so, I think there are some things I know, I as someone who lives in the City of Zagreb, as someone who is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia really feel the discomfort, shame, anger, anger when I see a hospital at the end of the city that is collapsing. But to do that, it's a hospital that's been shut down since 1994. From 1994 to 2018, calculate for yourself 24 years have passed. In 24 years, technology changed, construction regulations changed, a series of conditions changed, now all experts should come to see what was really possible there. When they see what's really possible out there, then get into it. I'm personally the hospital in the campaign where I was saying that there should be a move of Goljak, that it's an excellent location, that it should work in stages, that it should start to bring in the purpose, but every time I was careful and said first, to see if it's technically in good shape, and then see if it's adaptable to all the conditions that it should be, because it's something that you access one job. And that's why I'm there from the scene, and I repeat from this pay phone. If by the end of the term of office you have a building permit, a huge job has been done. Let's be realistic. When you're in opposition, then you can promise. There's this politician, the mayor of a town who's named you, who told me a few times, I don't understand you, so what you promised, you promise, so you don't. That's not how I did it when I was in executive power, and I do it even less when I'm in opposition. When I say something out of opposition I always fear what if I have a chance to do it, I'll ask myself a question why not. So I'm very surprised by your statement June 2019 we're on our way to work. But when I hear that statement, then I'm not surprised at all the rest of this that you said both in response to us and in replicas. But good. Maybe that's not your fault. Perhaps the lazy doctors you so likablely honored under the quotes are guilty. Or young beautiful chief sisters that you once said. Or simply, we're simply not rich enough, as you say, to treat all the children. Or maybe it's the courts, even the airlines that have nothing to do with Zagreb. It is also the fault of fellow MPs, especially those who are doctors, who are out of opposition because you have filed charges against them on professional bodies for political criticism. So I want to be absolutely correct and honest. Being Minister of Health in Croatia is neither easy nor pleasant work. Especially when you're a minister to colleagues from your profession. It's even harder because I'm sure everyone knows better and everyone knows how to do better, and it's not a simple job. But that's why, Minister Kujundzic, it's no shame to say, I tried, but I can't make any progress and it's time to retire. That would say a lot more good about you than your insistence on retaining a function that you are obviously not and at which you are only creating damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97376	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Ines Strenja Linic, the respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few more words. First of all, yes, in our request for recall, we mentioned all healthcare professionals, the minister referred only to doctors but what we said was that he missed out on the field of education, especially more clearly to resolve insufficiently defined sister education policy. So the minister missed out in collaboration with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Agency for Science and Higher Education for Higher Education, representatives of secondary education, the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters and representatives of the already established working group, which developed a common compulsory part of the pre-graduate university and pre-graduate professional study programme of the sorority finally define the basic education of nurses. With everything else the sisters are exposed to, which is why we're actually facing a disaster as far as sister's staff is concerned. As regards workers' rights under the collective agreement, it was very interesting to respond to the Government, which is, it says, all rights and so the overtime of workers are accounted for and paid in accordance with the provisions of the collective contract, but the Minister of Health does not have the right to unilaterally seek the application of the collective contract mentioned, etc. So, let me repeat, all rights and therefore overtime are not accounted for or are currently paid in accordance with the provisions of the collective contract mentioned. That should be clear. This is also confirmed by the case law so far. So the verdicts that doctors have not been paid overtime adequately to what they are. The health ministry headed by Minister Kujundzic is exactly the opposite of what they claim. So, unilaterally, what is not written in the collective agreement applies. In collective bargaining and collective bargaining, neither the premium nor anyone but the minister is involved, and the interpretation of the collective contract is given by a commission to interpret the collective contract. So, everything is in the hands of the minister and the primary question of his goodwill and wishes, and let us remember what it was when he was Minister Varga and who admitted the wrong accounting for the annual vacations that Minister Ostojić had brought and who gave the principals and COP orders and instructions on how to return it wrongly, you miscalculate the fees for annual holidays, and so it is, which has cut off all doctors and others in health care. Varga admitted that, he admitted that the instruction Ostojic gave was not in line with the collective agreement and ordered them to return it and settled the non-judicial settlement. Therefore, the rights of the collective agreement are unfortunately not implemented by the Croatian State but by Croatian courts who have made hundreds of judicial decisions in favour of prosecutors, health workers based on which health institutions have been forced to pay a part of the salary not paid with the corresponding interest guaranteed by the Labour Act and collective contract. Therefore, the paradox of the Croatian State and Government is even greater if we know that it is paid by the same those prosecutors, who are compensated by the means of health institutions, i.e. the pockets of Croatian citizens, the health payer, so the salary they are receiving today for the same job, is not paid legally again and will become the subject of the lawsuit again because this practice continues. And Kujundzic instead of an advocate for the law and law writes scandalous memos to the minister of justice trying to influence the judiciary and as we have seen from the government's point of view he also addressed the DORH. So he says, the Ministry of Health has made a request to the competent state attorneys to engage on the side of health institutions, and in that sense it is to the Ministry of Competent State... delivered binding interpretations etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as far as the specialist training of the doctor of medicine is concerned, we must say that what we will see on the benches next week in the final proposal of the Health Protection Act, the Proposer continues to insist on penalising so as to punish young doctors in the parent institutions, which makes us a unique and negative example in the EU where the law is subject to a flat-rate criminal provision of compensation at the level of one budget base per month of undetermined work obligation after a specialised examination. So these are the reasons why doctors leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97378	Thank you. We've got a few replicas right now. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97379	Thank you. My colleagues, you mentioned the lack of nurses and mistakes that appear through the inaction nothing for further education and specialization of the same and is a similar problem with doctors, I have already mentioned and we have proposed some of the solutions. And one of these is an increase in enrolment quotas to medical schools. Nothing was then done even though there is an interest in our young people to study medicine, there are facilities in medical schools, but obviously, it hasn't sat down and talked yet, but maybe it will be because the minister keeps making promises and maybe there will be increased registration quotas at medical schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97380	Reply by the respected representative Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97381	Thank you. I'm going to answer this, which are those medical students, the kind of survey they've been conducting. So they want to influence their perfection. So, do you know that with this generation of more doctors, young, graduated medical students, doctors will not have a traineeship? And then they do the poll themselves. 98% of them say they want to keep on having because they don't want the second day out of the student benches to go to Brač and save the children without working an emergency in their lives. They're begging themselves for a traineeship. On a round table in public in front of a large medical community, the minister said that in the new bill of law, the traineeship of medical students, i.e. the doctor of young people, is being abolished, and this is how we talk. Of course, quotas were supposed to increase slowly, but it also took a way for those finished doctors not to leave and I'm slowly and tonight by the end of the session I'm going to present all the reasons why they're leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97382	Thank you. The next replica is that respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97383	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Linic, I will not get into medical problems, but when you take the system and get into a system that is in big trouble, take that hot potato, that must be said courage. If Minister Kujundzic accepted it and figures show what was invested in Croatian hospitals, he says enough. To change the system, you yourself know that this is a process, that it is not in 2 years it is impossible to change it but as far as I know and while I was in MOST with you, you too are colleagues Linic, you could also be chosen to be Minister of Health, however, you have not shown this will by any chance knowing when to get into that problem, that there you should know and be able to do the right thing. I think this system is going in one good direction, of course it's a process and it's not going to go easily and have only the courage taken that, that ministry is already a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97384	Thank you. Reply by the respected representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97385	Thank you. Of course, I could have been a minister, but I was also responsible because I'm suffering from a severe disease and I'm re-suming with very aggressive therapy next week, and I didn't think it was right for this serious system to get into it if you're seriously ill and you can't control your illness at some point. But the time that has passed since the minister became and took over this was enough to at least start something. We are here all the time and we have said several times and wanted advisoryly, proposals, laws, you have the Law on Representativeness, you have proposals that went through, we have been going out through the the thematic sessions of the Assembly Committee, many other laws that have been proposed by the SDP, which has also been proposed by the Living Wall, none of which has been accepted. For example, I do. I'm glad to hear today that the government is going to propose its amendments to the law on representativeness, which means that this, I'm really going to pull it out right now, let Vladin go, the main thing is that doctors finally sit down and I can negotiate. At that point, I wasn't medically capable of taking over, and it also takes courage because it's a great honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97386	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97387	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Honorable Representative Linic. I don't know what to say, carefully, listen carefully not only to you but also to the others and to Minister Kujundzic, all of you are looking for a shift to stand down. And what would you do to those who have done much less or have not done compared to what was initiated by Minister Kujundzic and this Croatian Health Government? What would you do to them or what should they do to themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97388	Dear Representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97389	It's too little time to say once again, I have little time for a pay phone, but we have at least 52 reasons to say why the minister should step down, but the answers to those questions are what he should have done, at least part of it to get something in the health care system started. Everyone speaks, both Prime Minister and Minister Maric, and we are all aware that without health reform we will be in a situation where because of the lack of control of costs, due to the reform of the system within means only financial consolidation and oversolding within the system, we will no longer be able to control the system. We don't know what taxes to bring in, but we're just putting money in a bag and we're not controlling the situation because there's a situation we can control, at this point, with a amount of money like this, you have a Sisak hospital that barely gets paid. They haven't paid their travel expenses in two months. Look at the situation in Knin. So we already have hospitals that are on the verge of working enormously with the great effort of health care professionals and directors who have to cover everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97390	Thank you. The next one will now speak on behalf of the government, respected Minister Milan Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97391	Vice President, MPs, I'm gonna try to answer some things here that are open. Masters of medical biochemistry as a newly established study in Osijek is actually one problem that we inherited, we have provided these students with an internship, we have made it possible to work as lecturers, but without changing the Law on Health Activities, there is no way to regulate on the one hand where they can be employed and on the other hand, with the Ministry of Science it is necessary to define what else should be fixed in that study in order for that study to be valid. And by the way, those of you who know, we in Croatia have too many labs and that's one of the reforms that we have to make to everyone, so to say the Dalmashi, we don't have a lab, in all of Berlin there's only one laboratory, in Israel there are two laboratories, so there's also going to be a central laboratory and not, for example, up here on the Star, at 100 meters you have 3 microbiological laboratories. About magnetic resonances and so-called magnetic resonances. privatisations, guessing, that's why I said I got new magnetic resonances in Croatian hospitals, and I believe that'll make it better. The collective contract is a problem we inherited but it is a problem from 2012, and it is a problem to talk about at all levels, and in that sense I have contacted the Minister of Justice who cannot, the judiciary is independent, so you know how the judiciary works, and of course I went to inform all relevant factors about the problem that needs to be resolved under mandatory law, collectively paid rightly and ethically, professionally I think doctors are damaged but it cannot be judged like this where the minister will say it one way or another, it should, therefore, be resolved and it will be resolved. But I'm going to get out of the world of medicine because I respect those who advise me, advise me in the area of construction, advise me in the field of savings, and I'm grateful for that. Indeed, depressed areas should be helped to equip them. Imagine that it was less invested in Gunja, in the building, and part of that money was directed into the equipment of the home of health, so that they could shine and all the equipment you could have had and I understand your fear that you would be made a children's hospital, because if we had prices like in Gunja, then it couldn't be made for 300 years, and the prices of the German engineering building chamber are of 760-1000 euros, built for a square hospital depending on the luxury of that hospital, and let's remember how many we are in Gunja, so always Parliament is a place, let's talk nice people in the eyes and let's say each other everything, let's make arguments and that's something that's normal. That's what the Croatian people are waiting for, not a populist story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97392	Thank you. We have, you're too late, but, well, come on, I can see that the same model as usual, but good, respected representative of the Dark Tariatash first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97393	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I stayed for the reason I expected something like this. But if you had, say, gone to Gunja, then you would have seen, if a home of health had been built in Gunja and three apartments were made for doctors, on request, so you would have gone there and you would have seen it. Equally, absolutely, you have complete documentation of all the papers, and it's not about Gunjo, it's about... The word is from 6 settlements and you can see exactly how much is invested, how invested and where it is invested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just want you to start building a hospital in Zagreb for your term, and about how HDZ works and how much investment we have to see, but it wasn't the subject of replica and it's not the subject of me answering to you, and I expected this to be something like this. Of course you have to wonder because if the Prime Minister was with all his ministers, when he was defending you, and leaving you alone, I'd be wondering why my boss wasn't with us. But just ask yourself, how much the works in Zagreb really cost and run them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97394	Thank you. Now we'll hear the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97395	I think this is... It's called democracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But please, at what cost you've built in Gunja, here's the wrestling interest, let's hear it. Independently, say the number, is that 100, 100, 500 or, compare yourself to the German chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97396	Please, let's not get used to it. There's plenty of time left, if we want to speak to the Rules of Procedure. Now, a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic, will express his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97397	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for mentioning once again the masters of medical laboratory diagnostics, so I would like to tell you once again that the segment of medical biochemical activity, which is the Law on Medical Biochemical Activities, has not been regulated areas dealing with medical laboratory diagnostics. So these aren't the labs you're talking about. In the field of medical laboratory diagnostics are both haematology and cytology and transfusions and pathology and microbiology and immunology and serology and molecular diagnostics, therefore, a whole range of activities, which do not work by colleagues who complete the Faculty of Pharmacy in the field of medical biochemistry in Zagreb. And so, I really ask you to sit down again with your colleagues and, in the laws that are ahead of us, make this change very quickly and in the Health Protection Act and in the Act of Activity and allow these people to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97398	The reply of the Honorable Minister or no need? There isn't. Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative of Ines Strena Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97399	Here's to me going back to the children's hospital, I'd really like it to be like you said, but I'm going to ask a question, so, on December 21st, it's been formed, a decision has been made to set up a commission to secure adequate infrastructure, to conduct clinical paediatric care. The commission considered it necessary to build a new national children's hospital in February. So, in February you were already saying, it can also be found in the press and on the Internet, that you have all the necessary documents to write an idea solution. You haven't called a tender for an idea solution for eight months for a national children's hospital. So, you've fooled the public, because by now that contest could have gone and we could've been close to being that idea solution. And you said, "With the sequence of all this, "the construction of a new child." will enter the national strategy by 2030, so my question is whether today's children will be adults.../The speaker disfellowshipped./... [[Thank you very much, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97400	Thank you very much. You can't ask a question 10 seconds after you've run out, so please, everybody, discipline a little bit. Here you go. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97401	The answer... Indeed, there was a great commission, professionally, to bring together all doctors, who deal with pediatrics and gynecology, i.e. in order to give birth to projections, criticisms, reviews, plans, what to do in medical terms, which took time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I had to make audits abroad where I included a number of colleagues from the world who helped me with my advice, and then I had to take the pathways of insurance funds, pathways of feasibility studies and app routes. We are now at this mature stage, where we have secured money from EU funds and where we have secured our position in the budget in the Croatian state budget for '19. Mr. and were alive so we saw, so hopefully we'll talk with a smile somewhere in Blato in June, when the nine works start.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97402	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97403	Ministers, you figuratively compared the construction of the reconstruction with the homes of health, so we can figuratively say, but true, that the people hears, that there was no fear of the tunnels at the prices that were painted, that we were charging the right of the teleoper service, as it is charged in Germany, to set up base stations, or Athens pillars, in accordance with their own teleoperators, that you would bring in a rule to protect our citizens, to be a rule on the protection of electromagnetic radiation, as in Germany or Sweden, then there would certainly be funds then they would certainly be charged because they would have to invest, they would have to pay the right of service, we as a state do not do. That's why we should, that's why we'd have health homes, that's why we wouldn't have the ranks, that's why it would all work in Dalmatia, but we don't do that part, we don't charge them, as they pay in their own countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97404	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Romana Jerkovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97405	Thank you very much. Today's debate on Minister Kujundzic has a much broader context than the debate on one member of the government, is not just any member of the government and is not any other resolution. Health is one of the fundamental social values, health is a key prerequisite for the quality of life of each individual but not only that but also for the economic and general development of society. And that is why both health and health must be focused, I stress that they must be the focus of every responsible government and every responsible minister. We are actually discussing today what has not been the focus of the current minister in the past two years and what has resulted in. We're putting a lot of weight on the minister today, but everything can somehow come down under a common denominator and it's an inaction. We actually resent the Minister's inaction in the health care facility. If we ignore the problem of communication the minister has manifestly had, with which he has entered so far and still brings considerable unrest and confusion. [[Intruder Reiner: Fellows, please, can you calm down a little so that a colleague can speak?]] So if we ignore the very unpleasant and inappropriate insult of parliamentary representatives and fellow doctors, I say we ignore because it does not say anywhere that the minister can't be rude, the fact remains that Minister Kujundzic has missed a lot in the past two years. And it is no problem to list everything that has not been in the focus of Minister Kujundzic over the past two years. The hospital system was not in its focus, the financial sustainability of this same hospital system was not in its focus. Preventive medicine was not in its focus, the public procurement procedures in health were also not in its focus. To improve the emergency medical system or that. Strengthen the role of home health, not that. And then, of course, it's justified to ask a question and then what was the focus of Minister Kujundzic over the past two years. I, with great regret on behalf of the SDP Club, must tell you that we have not come to an answer to this question. Probably nothing, but we're not 100% sure. It is perfectly clear to us that the system of health and health cannot be, has never been and will never be an isolated island in a sea of harsh Croatian reality, poor economy and great poverty, can never be an isolated island. Well, health care can't be much better than it is in general in Croatian society and the Croatian state. We live in a country that would go bankrupt if there was no tourism, so there's no such thing as nature or God, however you want, that doesn't depend on our own mind, obviously. We live in a country where absolutely nothing works for a man and a man and what health care would do. Unfortunately, this country has long become its own purpose, and the average man has become the victim of unpaid accounts, executions and silent observers fighting for a naked existence and barely joining the end. And that's why in such an environment and at such a time it's arrogant and inappropriate to say and listen, I've come to work but I won't be sad if I don't work. What is this message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, what is this message to all those who can barely put an end to the end and can't afford a private view so they wait two years to review the magnetic resonance or CT? What kind of message is that to all those who don't have drugs? So it's legitimate to ask a question and I'm asking it on behalf of the SDP club. So why did you accept to be a minister if you had no intention of working? Who made you do it? You should know. I believe you know what it says in the HDZ election program, which is what it says in the government's programme after all. When you agreed to be a minister, you made a commitment to keep the promises that HDZ made in time, in pre-election time. You have made a commitment to make the health care system quality, to make it available to everyone, to be financially sustainable, not to squish in debt and not to make losses. You promised better working conditions for doctors, nurses, technicians, that you would strengthen primary health care, health care homes, that you would transform the health care system in a way that would make it adaptable, new technologies, new citizens' needs. How did you plan to do that? That nothing was done, so it didn't work out for anyone. Or promises don't mean anything to you. So, I said that once before, I'll speak for the club, what do we expect from you? What do we expect from the ministry? So we expect you to see problems, so recognize them, understand them, offer solutions. Your role must be leadership, it must be developmental, it must be proactive, it must be co-ordinated, it must be managerial, so you know that yourself, that's how it is. It can't be any different. You're a minister, once in your life, a minister, it's a great honor, with great responsibilities. You must recognize the good things your heirs have left you, which they have done, you must continue with them but you must also offer yourself solutions that are in line with time and needs of the system. In a system that's burdened so much with problems, and health care without any dilemma is, the minister can't have a passive role, and we resent it, forgive you, we resent it, justifiably resent it. You can't wait for things to get rid of themselves or operate on the system if "I don't do anything then no one can blame me for anything", it's wrong. Your access to the minister is deeply wrong, we have the right to think so. We understand that this is your tactics "I will not do anything so no one can blame anything" but not only is such a tactics absurd and wrong, it is also destructive because by inaction, you become directly responsible for building up problems in this important portfolio, which is why the system not only stagnates but also reverses and then we ask ourselves again with the right and who will fix it at what price and when and when. Well, of course we don't want all four years of new reform, so we're too poor a country for that kind of approach. Here's the new minister, here's the new reform. Well, all the predecessors did was it's no longer a good thing. In orderly states it can't happen and we do it regularly, but it seems to you that the minister, however, is still 2 years old but now in these first 2 years, we can tell you, Minister. You will be the first to be said for he is “the only one who has not tried anything at all. ” There's no reform of him. The only one who has not offered not only a reform procedure or not only offered a reform package but no small reform procedure. You ministers may be pleased with what you've done, but we now tell you right here, it's our right as an opposition that we're not satisfied with your work. In 2 years there have been very many opportunities to do something, several laws in the health care system that have reform potential have offered you that opportunity. The Health Insurance Act has not yet seen the light of day, the Law of Medicine, no one says anything about it, the Health Protection Act, it would have been better if he hadn't even seen the light of day given what it is. You put in the procedure one of the fundamental laws of the resistor that essentially changed nothing but absolutely nothing. For half a year, you've gone from hollow to empty, you've put the law on e-consultation, you've had 5500 objections to the law. Well, don't be angry. It's like someone in kindergarten wrote it, not from the closet or the waist. You drive the public crazy because there's privatisation, there's no going, there's no going, there's no going. That's how it's been for months. In the end, because of the pressure, you gave up privatizing the primary and hospital system that's cramping in debt, you haven't even touched it. And of course it was expected in the public and professional and general that the law would deal with exactly the hospital sector that produces debts, that it would deal with better quality and more efficient primary health care, waiting lists that have exploded, going to doctors and nurses in search of better conditions and better wages, of course, better survival of cancer patients, better survival of heart attack, life span, better primary protection, etc., etc. And those are the facts. You don't like them, you don't like the prime minister, so I wouldn't be honest with you if I were him. Here's the minister gone, he couldn't even listen to me. I understand him, man. It would be hard for me, too. It'd be hard for me, too, yeah. Has the minister shown in the past two years that he recognizes the problem of poor working conditions and the small salaries of nurses, technicians, doctors? These people who are pillars of Croatian health care. No, I don't. Will the new Health Protection Act make a difference in that regard? He won't. And doctors leave Croatia, sisters, technicians leave Croatia. I don't know how many primary health care teams are missing at this point, how many specialists are missing right now. The minister sits with his hands cut off and begs God for the term of office to pass and he remains minister, yes. The minister and the prime minister can think and that's their right, to attack them for no reason but the fact is not on their side, the facts are on our side. The outcomes of treatment are not on the side of the minister and prime minister, they are not because they say completely opposite things. They say the Croatian health system has fallen by 7 seats over the past few years. Of 35 countries, we're on 26th, 27th, so what's not worrying? Is there anyone here who cares about this country, in the government? Well, I'm not going to list what's in that report because we all know it very well and the minister who seems to be the only one who doesn't know because he went out there and there's no point in saying it at all. Minister, you're gone, but I'm telling you right now on behalf of the SDP, you don't manage processes, you don't manage any of the processes in Croatian health care, they manage you and you shut down the fires that are on all sides and too often. This is long-term disaster for the health care system, the moves you take from privatising primary health care to rewarding a doctor, a fiasco with a candidate for the European Medicines Agency, are better off not even mentioning even though academic Rainer has worked very hard to explain to us what actually happened and why, all of this has done little good. The way you work is fully consistent with what you said at the beginning of the term of office, and you said that the health system is excellent and that it does not need major procedures. That's what you said and you've been acting like, here's two years. Unfortunately, Croatian healthcare and unfortunately Croatian patients. What should be the goal of every policy when we talk about a health resort? It should be financial sustainability, be the quality of the system, preserve patients' rights, maintain the satisfaction of employees in the system, have to be important to us patients because the system exists, we need to be important doctors and nurses and technicians because they are pillars of Croatian healthcare, we need to provide patients with effective preventive programmes, extend quality years of life, we need to be important to everyone in the system, all stakeholders, without them, as I said the system does not exist, but we at the SDP club, Mr. Minister, thank you for coming back, we believe that you either understand it or do not care, and one and the other is devastating for Croatian health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97406	Thank you. We have now on behalf of the government to say something, dear Minister Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97407	Dear Mrs. Jerkovic, although it is the star of a bit of a gas SDP, it is no small matter or honor to speak on behalf of the SDP. How nice your president says you should know how to serve the people, and I think with what you've been saying you've actually opened up space to tell you things. So in politics it's usually twisting the thesis is something that's normal, but twisting words is something that's ugly and don't use it. I never said I didn't come to work. So, a lot more I do than you and than those who are with you, so we can talk about it, so now and then and tomorrow I'll do more work again, so please don't twist my words I said I wouldn't be sad if I wasn't a minister, and about the results you just gave me a little bit of reminding you because you obviously missed it or you didn't want to hear it. So, with the combined purchase you mention if you haven't done it, but you let her go while your party was in the hospitals, there was a lot of stuff going on, and don't turn your head, ask me what happened in Rijeka, Osijek, and I'll tell you in any group we can go. So just now they're running, you haven't heard how much we got the magnet and at what prices, how many coronaryography, how many angiographs, how many linear accelerators and at what prices we got it. Also, you may not have heard this government is, and it should have happened before, so Slovenia has been ahead of us for 10 years without speaking to other countries. The National Robotic Centre, meaning it was purchased, is or will be delivered by Christmas, where young doctors from Croatia will learn to do what is now being done in the world for a number of surgical procedures. We haven't missed an opportunity to financially stabilise the system. We inherited a debt big, and you know for me he'll remain an enigma of what your party did, you present her today, where the 6 billion so-called disappeared. Recoveries and leave the debt as big as before, that phenomenon will never be understood, where you spent that money. We also haven't missed a moment to arrange the united emergency receptions, and we're an emergency, so it's already made in Zadar and Požega, just waiting for the law we can't run with the functional merger of hospital, county, city emergency where the system will look quite different and you haven't dared you and your party. You didn't dare change the laws, you inherited the laws before you, you stood up and waited for not to touch the two basic laws, the Health Protection Act that you say is better if you hadn't seen the light of day, the truth of some other things would have been better if you hadn't seen the light in the morning or the light of day, but we could see about them at some other time. This law will benefit Croatian patients, for the benefit of doctors, sisters and everyone will benefit from it. Also, we haven't lost a moment we've made, this government has made priority waiting lists and only in nine months has solved 15 thousand serious patients, and you've only talked about functional hospital mergers you've never dared to go into functional hospital mergers, this government has made. So, I've just listed something that we've done and what we're just going to do with another occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97408	Replica will be represented by a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97409	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mr. Minister, everything you just said most of it isn't true and it's not true. So, you haven't stabilised the financial system, and that's the government and admitted in this explanation where it says in point 11 that it won't pay off the Ministry of Finance's debt to Croatian health on the basis of compulsory health insurance and it will remain a billion and a half thousand kuna, so when you say that the government is kind to you and that it pays back a billion kuna, it's actually a debt that should have already been paid. As far as your emergency reform is concerned, everything about the reform has begun in our term, you have stopped and this proposal that you have now proposed is completely wrong, which you can hear from people who work every day on an ambulance, and here I suggest you read the New List, Thursday 13 September, which was given an emergency aid in Croatia Fred Cider said and then listen to him and change the proposal that you are now trying to get through completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97410	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative, Strenja Linic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97411	Thank you. A few more notes, because everything the government has actually responded to is still to be seen. Regarding part of the proposal to launch a trust issue relating to the financing and organisation of health care. Therefore, as a fundamental objective of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016 and 2020 programme in the field of health care, the provision of a financial sustainable health system is indicated. Just in achieving the primary goal of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the current health minister has done absolutely nothing. The same applies to all specific objectives set out in the government's statement. For example. all of the above, means health care of particularly vulnerable groups, and here we have a very broad explanation of what it means today, that it provides in the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, for people who are mentally ill with mental illness, etc. So, all that he stated earlier has been regulated for years, years more labored, in fact since the establishment of mandatory and supplementary health insurance laws from 2002 and by application of 1 January 2003. At that time, insurance rights are regulated in full and in percentage part rights, including health care for children, students, older than 65 years of age, persons with disabilities, etc. It is then also indicated the right to pay and the premium of supplementary insurance from the state budget. Since then, certain minor changes in the category of insurance insurance have been made to some rights, but the system has never been significantly improved. This also applies to the mandate, the current meaning of the minister, and the announced amendments to the Health Insurance Act do not indicate any significant change, except that the additional unsecured part will be paid £4,000 instead of €2,000, which is a completely pointless measure in terms of system development. At the same time, reforms highlight technical changes, changes in the rate of contribution, higher excise duty, entry, and then exit of HZZ0 from the Treasury, exit, and entry of the Institute for Protection at the work of HZZO, and no essential reforms in order to develop the health insurance system. The health system of the Republic of Croatia has chronically suffered from a lack of financial resources to cover the current expenditures, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia states in this statement that the current deficit is 7.8 billion kuna. Although they have allocated additional funding from the state budget, and the previous government has boasted of several billion kunas after which there will be no need to resuscitate the health system. So, the most outsourced means ever, but also the biggest existing dubiosis ever. In fact, in anticipation of economic growth and higher employment in the last five years HZZO has actually lost 100,000 active insurance companies, reforms are constantly announced to develop and rationalise systems that remain dead letter on paper. In fact, after the introduction of the Supplemental Health 2003, the only reforms implemented in the field of health system financing were those related to the price and consumption policy by introducing a basic and supplementary list 2007. Everything else is reduced to continuous financial recoverys covering the resulting debts within the system, primarily the hospital. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97412	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, the reformer of independent MPs will speak to the respected representative Jankovics first, and he will share time with the respected representative Vard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97413	Dear Mr. Vice-President HS, the esteemed Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we do not have a single doctor in our club, nor anyone who could analyze on the expert side, so the measurement of these 9 pages of requests for the impeachment of Minister Kujundzic, who signed 31 of our colleagues, therefore our analysis, both my and my colleagues Varde, will be focused on the political analysis of this submission, not on the scale. So, before us is the request of 31 MPs in HS, 13 Bridges, 12 SDPs, 3 Living Walls, 1 HSS, 1 SNAGA, 1 Independent for the impeachment of Minister Kujundzic for the reasons that, among other things, he rudely and inappropriately insulted the parliamentary representatives, did nothing and he had rough and large failures. So, I'm one of the representatives who's been listening very carefully for the past five hours to what's been heard here, which is, what's the crime of Minister Kujundzic, which is why he should be removed from the government, and I have to admit that, therefore, we've been listening to arguments and problems in health about the seventh century, so to this day, which is all the problem and what should be, in which direction we should pursue. However, I'm not sure what part of that applies to the past two years at all. So it seems to me that in this satire, therefore, which we have been listening to these five hours today, we have failed to produce anything that would convince our club that we should vote for Mr Kujundzic's recall. The minister himself said he had the impression, I agree, that today's few hours was actually used for a generally very classy conversation on the state of Croatian health and as such, it was probably even a good idea for the applicant of this initiative to discuss it in front of the widest audience. However, even if it were to be understood that this is okay and that probably many HRT viewers today can look at and listen to all our arguments, what we would point out on behalf of the club is that we do not agree with one starting point where we are here, and that is the starting point of the term when this debate is launched. This debate was launched just over two months ago on August 12th when a dramatic event occurred in so far, with the death of Mate Ruzic, whose family at this time express my deepest condolences, I hope that pain can pass and I am sorry to use that name. However, those who are the applicants of this application began with that term with this whole idea and I think it's neither fair nor right. So, the motive of starting this whole debate was an amazing set of circumstances in Zagreb's county on August 12th when at the same time traffic in Kalinovai was happening when one of them was a drunk unconscious girl and when a young man in Zapresic, who had asmetic laryngitis and until then unknown heart defect, walked his dog, passed out, or died on the streets, because two urgent ones had gone to two other places before, and that 3 remained uncovered. So, that moment, this one insolence, which has led to this whole process moving just because of the events in Zapresic, is unacceptable to me, the level in this Croatian Parliament, and I believe that it will not happen again, because in some way this poor term has caused one hysteria and in Croatian media, in the Croatian society, whose result today's conversation, in contrast with that history, is a relatively decent and peaceful conversation that we have today. And it reminds me, in fact, of the, dramatic events of 9 February 2017, when we had the same request here for the recall of Minister Barisic, who was then a plagiarist and a liar and a thief and all in order to be a year later, he stopped being a minister, that a year later, then the University of Auschwitz would say, that he was not a plagiarist. We haven't apologized to him, and the same hysteria, which happened at the time throughout this summer to the surroundings of Minister Kujundzic. These circumstances, I think the Croatian Parliament would be worth more than that to repeat these things. What's saddest of all is that we're all, that part of my colleagues here suspected the institution, suspected the results of the judicial medicine and crime department, who said, what happened, so we all doubted together, the result is this debate. The sad, the topics that have been presented here today are good, if we had to do it this way, I leave it to those 31 signatories who brought us here today. So, as far as the Labour and Solidarity Party Club, reformers and independent representatives are concerned, we will, of course, be against this initiative, we will all be against this initiative, because first of all we trust Andrej Plenkovic and trust the Croatian government whose part of Mr Kujundzic is, we believe earlier today, and there is no reason why this trust should not remain. I can only say that we continue to support the measures that the minister listed in when he spoke for the first time, so the measures for staying a doctor, so on specialisation, measures to increase the salary, which we had here in the first reading, last week, which just targeted those 18,000 citizens who have the highest salary, and that's where our doctors should come in, so they said out of opposition, well, if they increase 1,000 kn, that's not significant. I think that's one important message that we need to carry out through tax reform and give the gesture to these doctors, how important they are to us and to find their motive to stay with us. So we support measures for the survival of doctors, support the construction of hospitals, in Pula, Rijeka, if we succeed with a children's hospital, that would be extraordinary, support modernisation, 296 hospitals and we are particularly proud of the treatment of all those patients, who are looking for expensive medicines and the role of our diameter in this. What I'm asking you Minister, I don't think I've heard anyone say before, I think what our colleague Ninčević Lesandric said, that it would be the wrong message not to be held accountable, ask you to check what happened with it and how it was possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97414	Thank you very much. Now we'll continue with colleague Vardo on behalf of the same club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97415	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues, there are few of us left. But I couldn't, with the help of either the Apollo doctor or the questioner or the panache, link all these vanity vanitys, etc. I don't know, actually, I'm not a medic, but I know something to say about the motion to call it off. Namely, I'll only refer to two points. Point 19 of the government responded that there is a government trio in Croatia. That all members of the government, independent contemporary and that the health minister could not have influenced the judicial authority by his letter. If that's the reason for the recall, he doesn't exist. Point 26 of the proposal reads, prepare and start building so much needed children's hospital, there was no comment there. Now I can say this, this minister and this government, responded or received the hand of the City of Zagreb at the Immunological Institute. Since 2014, I have already talked about this in this assembly, the City of Zagreb has offered the government and Zoran Milanovica a strategic partnership to get rid of Immunologically, and I have the whole chronology here. The answer wasn't even on the rush. This minister and this government took that hand and now I'm not going to tell you where we are today, immunologically, at work. Secondly, the children's hospital, I also have chronology here, I can read it to you, if you're interested, where every project, program, takes time. Some last a year, two years, three, some five. We expect one minister, one government to solve in 2 years everything that now seems to be said to me, from the 7th century on, that's not going to happen to people. You who have dealt with the economy or business, and I have done the economy, I know how much the individual program or project requires time, how much analysis, how many studies, etc. etc. However, what, not to be longer, what actually makes me human and as a representative in this House, particularly bothers in the motion for recall, is the fact that this minister has been sewn together all the health diseases since '19. Mr. last century to this day. All the diseases of that health care have accumulated now. Furthermore, as a matter of fact, it bothers me, that you have declared him to be both a man and a doctor as a co-worker in the end line, some of you signatories, the malts not a gravedigger of health and man because for impeachment, you have written that it has contributed to the growth of the mortality of patients from malignant diseases and chronic non-infectious diseases. It's an accusation. That's what you're supposed to file for, I don't know what the state's attorney is doing on this finding of yours. I didn't mean to confirm one sharper, uglier word. It's embarrassing for me. You're angry, don't be angry, it's embarrassing, it's illegal to me. In other words, I do not actually find another word especially if it comes from the signatories of fellow doctors who are under Hippocratic oath. I'm staying with what my colleague Jankovics said about the club's position, not to extend the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament is already too late, but I would have one request at the end when it comes to health care. When an older representative for the debate on behalf of the club or individually comes forward, take care of the health status of senior representatives and change the debate a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97416	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. And I'm sorry, on behalf of the promoter, first respected representative Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's time at the end of the debate on behalf of the clubs, I say on behalf of the promoter a few sentences. Of course, Mr. Varda, that no one had attributed all the sins of the past to Mr. Minister, but it was mostly about the sin of indemnity to correct the mistakes and his predecessors that were surely there. A summary of today's debate can be summed up on behalf of clubs, we can sum up in a sentence that came from the Club of Col. Sponze, which perfectly complemented our proposal by saying that the health system is shaking financially, staffed, infrastructure and organisational crisis, and for the crisis of governance in each ministry, so in this case the Ministry of Health is the most responsible minister, and here is Mr. Kujundzic. So Minister Milan Kujundzic missed a stronger initiative to reform the health system over the past 2 years. He was just putting out the fires when they showed up. During this lost period, he had to manage his health because it was his job as minister. Unfortunately, the minister failed to do so even though a number of changes were necessary in the activity of emergency medicine, primary medicine, preventive medicine, in the area of financing of the organisation of health care, and in the hospital health system. What I particularly point out on behalf of the promoter is that his key task, which he failed to fulfil, was to ensure a fiscally sustainable health system. The minister didn't do it. To a better health system, the minister had to secure his way primarily through cost rationalisation rather than new taxes. More expensive cigarettes and alcohol won't help. Where are the analyses of this move professional, scientific, financial, do we have some in which the increase in taxes on cigarettes and alcohol has reduced the consumption of cigarettes and alcohol? Perhaps in the orderly European countries, however, know that in Croatia because of our border and grey zone, consumption and alcohol and cigarettes will not fall, but that is why budget revenues will certainly be lower. Unfortunately, Minister Kujundzic is in no way managing expenditures and political staffing and poor governance have led to a poor spending of public money, causing the public sector to collapse and benefit itself in private. Political staffing and mismanagement lead to the collapse of the public sector and the benefit of the private sector, and therefore we believe it to be one of the major sins of Minister Kujundzic. I will repeat at the very end, there was never more money in the history of Croatian health care in the system. Never the waiting lists despite that amount of money, were they ever longer and life span grew shorter. So we had the data yesterday, we canceled yesterday, we're going to abolish it through the law that follows, the Labour Protection Office, unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, the years of quality life after retirement at 65 years old in Croatia are exactly half of what is in Europe. So, on average, we live five years in quality and healthy after 65 and citizens of the EU 10. Therefore, in Croatia, health care is not now solidarity, it is not comprehensive and unfortunately not equally available to all. Whoever has money, he will be treated, who doesn't, will wait for waiting lists, in that waiting rarely unfortunately, to live badly, unquality and shorter. All mentioned, as well as the rude and inappropriate insult and demeaning of all those who dare to warn the minister of his failures, the position of the Minister of Health, especially the insult of fellow doctors, directly question his credibility and thus the possibility of continuing to act as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the future. Everything that we have put forward as a proposal through the debate of the clubs of MPs has proved to be correct, or our opposition request to leave, the minister is fully justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97418	Thank you very much. We've got one replica of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97419	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Jovanovic, like this, which is a better health system, actually means a better quality of life, right? That's how it's supposed to be. What did the minister miss in these three pillars or what did he do well? What did he do in prevention, treatment, or paliation, or rehabilitation? Here, a preventive program whose head he's headed, does he have a better result? There isn't. He's got a worse score. How if he failed to do something better in the programme, so use his position as minister and make the citizens believe him and that the citizens respond to preventive checks, that we can expect him to do something else. Here, maybe he did something in the area of rehabilitation because some of them were in front of other citizens, managed to get across the line, managed to get to the spa and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97420	Thank you very much, please, let's stick to the weather. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97421	Thank you, colleague Maria, I think you have pointed out another problem, which today, through this debate, on behalf of the clubs, we have not been able to highlight enough and it is about prevention and unnecessary abolition of agencies. Here, I said about the work protection office, where every 10 minutes a worker gets killed, where we are leading by injuries at work, and we end it, and also Minister Kujundzic has done nothing to prevent the abolition of the drug abuse office, in conditions where, according to all indicators in Croatia, our children, our young people, are above the average of their peers and by smoking and by drinking alcoholic beverages and using various psychoactive means of addiction. Therefore, instead of raising the office to an even higher level of the central government's office to combat different addictions, it was to first join the Ministry of Health, and according to the new Croatian Institute of Public Health, which shows only the wandering of the minister in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97422	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move to individual debates, they're going to be in my court by midnight, so let's start with Honorable Agent Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97423	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President, respected ministers with a co-worker, a colleague of Jovanovic, as former Croatian government minister, for reminding me of a time when he was a minister. So, 25.10.2013. Jutarnji List, the government has given 3.5 million kn to resuscitate health care, waiting lists for surgery are getting longer each day, doctors are on strike, and pharmacists are thinking about stopping the delivery of medicines to hospitals. The health ministry, however, has been occupied by something else, they have decided to turn Croatia into a regional force and a visual European example for the use of artificial lungs. It is quite logical that the opposition, seeking, proposes to launch a trust issue to a Croatian minister, but I think in these two years this is already 4 ministers they are trying to replace and will again be the same, unsuccessful outcome. On the one hand, it seemed to me from all of these motions, to launch, as if the minister were copying some supernatural traits, as if he had to solve all of this, all of these problems, that were piling up, like he was Superman, maybe you should have come with that superman coat, maybe it would have been more effective. But once they've listed all of this as possible, maybe they should have put 27 points, I think you're to blame for the crisis in Uljanika and 3 May, it seems to me that it might also be your responsibility. There is no such manager, who could manage, with some medical facility and stop the generation of new debts. My colleague Jerkovic is a doctor, a university professor but has never worked at a clinic. And she doesn't know that only hospital and health systems generate new debts for wages and for new expensive drugs, for immunological preparations, for chemo, for biological medicines, it costs a lot. And when you look at how they're being funded, let's say the public health services, and then you see the situation, let's say the fact that the reduced number of checks for the sanitary library has significantly reduced revenues within the Public Health Office. If you look at the way in which the diagnostic treatment procedures are financed, how primary healthcare is financed, why are the huge differences in those private family doctors compared to doctors in health homes, then you get one whole picture. But I repeat, therefore, the situation of debt generation is something that not only Croatia, but the whole world. During 2013 the SDP Minister of Finance Slavko Linic increased the public debt by 6.5 billion kn, the debts in that time were recovered, and from that time we remember these famous rehabilitation councils only the City of Zagreb did not agree to these rehabilitation councils and it was, in fact, that most of the counties were in the power of HDZ, which were actually the rehabilitation councils serving that SDP's people, from these counties, manage hospitals. And what did we get? So already, after 6.5 billion kn, 2013-2014 already at the end of 2015, debts were again more than 7 billion kuna. Why didn't you ask yourself, then, during the SDP government, so how come? So now we have the amount of debt that is stable, it is currently slightly less than 8 billion and 200 million kn, but with respect to the collective contract 2 times 2% of the salary increase, and by paying off the annual vacation regress, the debts have started to rise again. So, a psychiatric clinic called Sparrow, it has almost 80% of the total budget of waste on pay. We want to have a quality health service, you have to have a sufficient number of maids, you have to have sufficient medical resources and technicians, of course you have to have a sufficient number and a doctor, as the holder of these teams. It wouldn't be all that, that the current Ministry of Health in the framework of what it is, in difficult challenging times, manages in the best possible way and I am convinced that the shift can be and I am sure that this health administration is working on it. So, you mentioned the excise tax. I'm sorry Professor Jovanovic left here. So, what Minister Kujundzic represents, although it is a gastroenterologist, therefore, it is a matter of increasing excise duties. This is one of the effective measures of one effective measure, to take part in reducing the continuation of an addictive pattern of behaviour. Everywhere in the world, check out good clinical practice you'll see results. The second situation is, of course, that the Minister of Health who is a doctor will advocate that the price of alcohol rises, that the price of tobacco rises, but then, on the other hand, Minister Finance may have its own objections. I believe there will be a certain increase in excise duties, perhaps not as the Minister of Health imagined, and I would probably represent even higher prices as a psychiatrist who deals with addictions but definitely the increase in excise duties reduces the number of addictive behaviours. So that's something based on evidence. So we have, today there have been various statements, 750 euros per capita, you have a situation, so the average is somewhere around 3,000 euros, 3.5, 4 thousands. So, richer countries have bigger separations and we're where we are. When we talk about reforms, so resistance to reforms comes from different angles, so it can be a health care workers issue. One of the priorities of the Minister of Health Dr. Kujundzic said at the beginning is a national children's hospital and then a university hospital. So look, we can be self-critical as health care professionals, you have a significant number of people inside the health care center who oppose some hospitals that are on the banks going and being rationalizing costs. So on the one hand, they resist these reforms, with one health care worker, we can, on the other hand, have certain stakeholders. But what is the biggest problem in Croatian society is the lack of political consensus on important topics such as health issues. What I would commend on the part of Minister Kujundzic, I probably wouldn't do, on his part you couldn't hear any objection to any predecessor to collect some cheap political points from any political option. So his predecessors, I didn't hear he criticized, at least not publicly. So let me mention the situation, so here we have 7 new magnetic resonance devices of 1.5 Tesla, united public procurement, the price has dropped 30% and I'm going to remind you of SDP with a situation of 35 new ECMO devices, so artificial lungs. After one SDP minister was replaced with another, another named a task force that found it to be 10 artificial lung devices and that they were unpacked and unnecessary, it was the European regional force. So at this point, no one was talking about these topics and the tens of millions of kunas spent and led to Croatia having the largest number of ECMO devices in the EU. The role and importance of the units of local self-government, so the state must do its part but local self-government units are now mentioned some bright and positive examples, when we talk about the deficiting calls of the local self-government unit according to their capabilities should give some benefits, some incentives that medical staff, therefore not only doctors but also nurses and labians and all those who make up the Croatian health system remain and survive in these areas. As regards specialization, i.e. EUR 2017 million, in 2012 the specialisation of ministers mentioned on several occasions that no health care institution that requested specialisations was denied. Unfortunately, over the past 10 years, let's say 15 years ago when I was getting specialization, the situation wasn't like that. Of course, this is not the only measure, but believe me, whoever sits at Minister Milan Kujundzic's place despite all attempts, despite all efforts, some of the healthcare professionals go to some other EU countries where better standards are and where the conditions of business and working conditions for doctors and nurses are better. So, how convincing the story is today at the end of the day tells the situation that at this point we do not have six parliamentary representatives of the opposition who advocate the recall of Minister Kujundzic. And I think at the end of the day he's saying enough for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97424	Thank you. We have some replicas, respected representative Jerkovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97425	Thank you very much. I don't know how many of you there are in HDZ to defend your minister. It's weird to me. You should be a lot more when we're talking numbers. And secondly, secondly, I can't believe you said what you said at the beginning, so just because I'm a university professor doesn't mean I'm retarded, that I don't understand the health care system. Is that what you were going to say? What do I have to hit my head against the wall to know it's hard? Well, I'm a doctor, I worked in that system, I know him very well. But I don't understand how you don't understand what we're talking about as an opposition. Like what? The specific funding of the system was always a problem for all health ministers, but everyone was trying to deal with this problem somehow, so there were some reforms, so resolutions, so this, so what, people were trying to do, solve the problem. And what the opposition is saying today is that Minister Kujundzic did not do enough in two years to try to solve the big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97426	Thank you. A fellow cellmate has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? Oh, you can't replica on a replica. Okay. That's the second answer to the replica. [[I raised my hand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97427	Excuse me. Dear Representative Jerkovic, although I am temperamental and can take off but I still try to stay away from harsh words, in no way have I said or thought you were retarded. I just said that the hospital health system is constantly generating new debts for employees' costs and for medicine. You cannot compete with a hospital healthcare system, for example, with a public health system that is financed in a completely different way or a primary health care system. Believe me, with one political decision, it can greatly change the way of the system and we can also get in primary health care certain losses and therefore I consider the new Health Protection Act to be good and to be able to leave a certain part within the health home to stay, to keep them profitable with that part up to 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97428	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97429	Thank you very much, Vice President. You took a good picture of the whole situation, and I think it's very detailed because you're surprised at the other side that they've forgotten all of it. They simply solved these things. We have a debt, let's take a new debt, a public debt of 80 billion in four years, and leave the problem to someone next, we experience amnesia, forget that we were ministers, MPs, all of them very well supported, and now they're all to blame only they're gone. I am surprised here today, and I have already said that fellow health care professionals are moving on their system that it is not right at some point and are accusing the minister and getting themselves out of it elegantly. That was what we're here to discuss this afternoon. It's their way of solving the problem, and otherwise this debate goes on otherwise about impeachment in a way that goes hard first, and then a little peace and eventually it starts to apologize before the end why we even started doing it when tomorrow will be a mistake again. There won't be half of them to vote on anything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97430	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Cellich.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97431	Dear fellow Boric, therefore, the functional merger of hospitals is nothing more than a cost rationalisation, we can't do nothing about it, we don't have enough money, and that's one of the positive sides that Minister Kujundzic has launched and largely implemented, and what SDP's government is doing at local level you're from Rab Island in the hospital on Rab, in the Rab Health House there are two laboratories, two x-ray devices. Who financed it and who could finance it? What country can be so expensive that it can finance two laboratories and two x-ray devices? Just tell me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97432	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97433	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Cellich, my debate was actually in the sense that my colleagues were declaring a fellow undertaker. In view of those views made in the proposal. Now I'm curious, I don't know the Hippocratic oath, I really don't know what it's like, but you said that Minister Kujundzic is collegiately treating his predecessors in relation to all the problems. Is there any collegiation between a doctor or does there not exist in this Hippocratic oath? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97434	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Cellich.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97435	Here, thank you, Mr. Vice President, so of course there's this in Hippocrates' oath, and that's why I said only the starting point of the motion of recalling the Minister of Health, which is related to one life tragedy, so we all play on emotions, but we can't ignore that rational category either. And that one accusation that this is the worst minister, that this is not know what it is, I can no longer repeat which epithets, which attributes were used that this is the worst government, the worst health minister, of course the opposition will say so but completely unargumented and I don't think that those few who followed could ever gain such a conclusion but rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97436	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97437	Thank you very much. It would immediately begin with counterpart Celic that units of local self-government must be involved, that I agree, but Croatia has more local self-government, municipalities and cities than China and the United States combined. How much is invested in this administration on unnecessary people, vehicles, techniques, councils needlessly. If it were to be invested in health care, then we could talk about it. As we're about to, the minister had to give these solutions to a couple of times the hospital in Zadvarje, a day hospital. He says it'll be for Sinj, Trill, the list. Do you know that from Sinj to Zadvor, I know that you are a local patriot and I know that on that basis you have made that decision to be a hospital in Zadvarje and well, and logically, I don't mind. From Sinj has 60 km to Zadvor, Zagvozda pardon, to Zagvozda, and from Vrlika another 40 km. Therefore, for a serious debate when we talk about health homes in 2010, the ninth time in Sinj in the home of health that once worked well until it was fussed into a health home of the Split-Dalmatia County had a meaning, however, when it was fused into an independent, a health home of Split-Dalmatia County and became an outpost, I will repeat the Cetin region is an area by population larger than Like, and larger by area than Međimurje County. Therefore, we have no solutions. Emergency assistance in Sinj is more often closed on weekends than open, exclusively because of the big area. So when people bring their children and people who are threatened lives they come to a closed door and that's a huge problem. There is no solution down there, Petric with whom you have good relations and communicate and the problem is what funds are decentralised towards the counties, according to positive counties, but in Split-Dalmatia County is more entangled in the administration of the Split-Dalmatia County, party members of the El Voting Body, employed in the administration and administration of the Split-Dalmatia County at home of health than it was specialization. What's going on? You're saying we called and gave specials, I don't know the number exactly, and what do we do in four years? Now here's what the nurses are telling me that two months in Knin they haven't been paid off, working in a hospital, traveling from an area around the Knin area, no travel expenses have been paid. The nurses are medically tired, writing.../incomprehensible messages, but there are also.../incomprehensible/... tired, underpaid and not taken care of. That means I'm saying what they personally sent me. When we talk about health care or prevention that's very important. I just mentioned the teleoper's base stations. We literally put base stations on hospitals, kindergartens, at school, and the world health organization this year declared it a possible pattern of tumors. That's what I did because I live in a neighboring settlement where a man was stationed overnight, so it's in Sinj center, so it's in Split. That's why people object. For what? Because our regulations aren't the same regulatory departments of health on radiation, electromagnetically as in other countries where these teleoperators come from. He's part of the Department of Construction but part of the Ministry of Health. These teleopers can act on us when we're like some kind of exposition of theirs, like we're occupied, so we don't have the courage to bring the rule of what it is in Germany, what it is in Switzerland, what it is in Sweden. I recently wrote for a Croatian Association for the Protection of Electromagnetic Emissions, they helped me, I wrote, I wrote a letter to the Ambassador of Sweden that I asked him about the behavior of teleoperators who come from Sweden so in Sweden as they behave here in Croatia, that the end of the children's hospital is being set up by base stations. Therefore, Minister, see how it is resolved in those countries where teleopers come from, to protect health because they have huge profits. Teleopers have the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia that draw and invest I don't know where. In addition to not having the strength to pay for the right of service as in their own countries, which charges the right to serve, that money could have been local self-government and the Ministry of Health and Education, it could have been the money they would have paid for the right of service to invest in prevention. We don't do that, we're just saying we're gonna pick up cigarettes because of, whether, okay, investments in healthcare, but why these teleoperators who make billions in Croatia, who get from year to year in tenths of percentages higher in the Republic of Croatia, the biggest profit is right in Croatia, they get 40% profit in Croatia. It is unimaginable to be in Germany where they come from, therefore it would be good for ministers to comply with the regulations with the European Union when Serbia could, only in Europe in the European Union, Croatia does not have that. We all call on the European Union. Why? Because it's too much teleoperator power, and media because they're good advertisers anyway. And these are lobbys, I think it's one of the problems that's not solved, which you should have solved and you haven't done anything, regardless of what I've been sending you and the memos on several occasions. Once again return to the forgotten areas that are two-thirds of Croatia, but as I come from Sinj, Ministers of the Health Home of Split-Dalmatia County does not care about the region of Dalmatian burning in the hinterland. They don't care about those people. It is an older population that has no organised transport, which has no literally, water supply has not been solved and people have no ability to even transport to the Home of Health and let alone have money to examine. Women in line, I'm a witness to that. I also had protests in 2010 when I was going to shut down both the birthplace and the stationery and many other services, women, women were literally dying in the ranks. Six months waiting for order, six months, and when that day of enrolment, it's on 1,000 women and they're enlisted, then they're waiting for half a year again, and of course those who have money must go to privates who don't come home and die at home on the road or I don't know. So we can't forget those ends. I find it surprising when I saw it in Vrgorec, she was a colleague of Strenja, a device in the lab that writes Sutjeska, it seems to me that the production of 45th, 46th, I don't know who was born here at the time. Therefore, the triba seek a solution to forget the end. We have too many municipalities, cities, I know that this reform will never be made, ever. County, so we decentralize the funds in County so they in Split-Dalmatia County every little ten, fifteen receive them, it's a voting body, right. I even gave the chairs to Mayor Boban that the boys, the girls he receives, have seats until one floor of the building is made, and if he invested, if the decentralised funds were sent directly to the local self-government, surely the mayors, the mayors, were much more concerned because they were directly bound to the cities, and this is how little it is employed, this is what the mayors here who were colleagues, the mayor of former Ante Sanader. In these parts, people do not have the same right prescribed by the Constitution. Right to health care, equality, constitutional law. It's a state of mind. Minister, what are you doing? Here I am talking about the Cetina province, the Dalmatian Zagora, where 26,000 people have moved out in four years since 2011-2016 and one of the reasons is the health problem, with education and of course they have no jobs. Now answer me what you do for those parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97438	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected representative of the Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so, dear colleague Bulj, no one can argue that you are the lobbyist of the Cetina region and I believe that you and your colleague, Šipić, can make some moves for the better. Of course, the role of the Ministry of Health and therefore, with the reorganization of emergency medicine and the association of family doctors with duty, should be seen if it is possible for the House of Health of Split-Dalmatia County, to give this more effective, to separate especially the House of Health Sinj, especially the House of Health Imotski, whether it would have certain benefits. I can't believe women die in line. So, I'm from the Municipality of Kula Norinska, my mother and father downstairs living, my mother regularly gets calls for mammographic examinations, my father for colonoscopy examination. It would be interesting to see how many women respond to that and whether we can do anything about it the same way. So, all together, all together, there's Dr. Jadrijavić with whom you're in the coalition in Sinj City, and I believe that with his help there's a lot of blues, you can contribute So some things change for the better. [[Breaking President: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97440	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97441	Thank you very much. When we talk about fusing the home of health, we have 10 counties where the fusing homes are health, and 10 where they're not. So, he was the SDP minister then, from Dubrovnik, former Mayor Vlahusic, he is, so in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, not fusiond. Afterwards Milinovic was in Lica, they were also not fusiond. E, al Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county is fusiond. Biggest. Bigger than together and Dubrovnik-Neretvanian and character-sensian. Half a million people, islands, are all centralized, the monopoly of a respected director down the Pro... this one, not Failing what's called this one, so is Petric. So, system dysfunction as one way can be in the Lika-Senj County, the other in Dubrovnik, and in Split-Dalmatia County due to the mayor's courtship has been brought into a situation of catastrophic Dalmatian Zagora. Catastrophane, women literally die in the ranks, literally, I'll show you pictures, I've been called 500-600 of them, I've sent it public before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97442	The next individual debate is that of the respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97443	Thank you, Vice-President, Honorable Minister, after this debate, when we hear all this from colleagues from the opposition, we should actually congratulate Minister Kujundzic on the courage to lead this ministry with this many problems, with 8 billion kunas of debt, with the departure of doctors, sisters, with an unsettled system, with every area and man would get, how we could actually hear from some colleagues that the system had stalled in the financial, human debt crisis in every respect, and in fact the health system was never in crisis, not even in the time of the Homeland War when we created the Croatian state and then it worked and then it worked and then people were examined, so not now. He can be better, he can be better, he can be worse, but he's never in a crisis. Today we have had the opportunity all afternoon, although the topic of voting, or the debate on mistrust, is actually to see that it has turned into a debate on the health system in general, on all practical areas, there have often been discussions about individual diseases, I don't know, kiretages, reviews, medicines, searches that should have been done. So, on the one hand, it is good to discuss health care, the health system because it is very important in the lives of Croatian citizens and I think that it should be discussed and discussed more often, but in a constructive sense, not in this destructive where we want to show that nothing is right. Through this debate, citizens could get a picture or a feeling that the health system isn't working, that you can't experience any good, any review, any search, any treatment because we actually only have problems and somehow unconscious business, especially the minister. But we're all here, we all know it's not like that, and here we can see it through the debate. Many have said that doctors are leaving because of low wages, and on the other hand when we discussed tax, tax changes last week, they were all against increasing wages, that by one smaller number of 18.20 thousand people are increasing wages indirectly, not through increases, but only through tax changes. So it's illogical of me on the one hand, here we're fighting for doctors to have higher salaries, on the other hand we wouldn't let that happen... We're not consistent with that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This whole debate, in fact, and these demands, however many of them actually show the problems that exist in the system of which, of course, the minister couldn't be guilty, nor could he because they've been inherited through many years, and in fact here we all have it together, maybe it's good through this debate, that we're all working together to make the health care system even better, to change, and as the minister through this time is mostly working. And here's just to mention a few things that we don't waste any more time because it's too late, so in the last year health care at the request of course of the Ministry given billions and 100 million kunas to settle these debts that were inherited from previous years. This year, at least a billion and 300 million kunas were provided for expensive drugs and tests. 200 new people will get a specialization, directed to specialization, no more waiting like it used to be after college and applications in various ways to get to an internship that was once normal to get right away as soon as you finish medicine. The priority list project is extremely important, many people may not understand what it means, but when you succeed, you are not very urgent, but within a few days you get the opportunity to perform your search and that here, 15 thousand people so ordered, it's actually saying that this is the same one, one of the ministers who has a purpose, has a positive task and will actually help solve what is urgent. We're all aware that a large number of people are ordered to search even when they're not required. More than 30% must be normal healthy results, but people like to confirm that everything is fine and that's why you're actually waiting a lot with checks. What I'm also looking forward to is the functional merger of hospitals, especially since I'm from Vinkovac, Vinkovci and Vukovar hospitals because we've all been aware that one piece and equipment of instruments, devices, and the doctor doesn't have enough work to do in certain departments, and others are overworked. With this merger, this arrangement was actually confirmed by the director of the Vinkovci hospital that he was glad that it had come to this because he had just solved the many problems he had with the checks, with the waitings, with devices that were not available in Vinkovci, and there is in Vukovar and that is the same, and we are aware that we actually saw that the minister had already functionally combined twelve hospitals and thus enabled especially on peripheral parts to function better in quality and to wait as little as possible. Then, what's also important, as far as health homes are concerned, I am also in the administrative council of the home of health, working in the home of health, in the emergency service, but I am glad that it remains a home of health, it must naturally pass all the transformation to be as modern as possible, which is more quality as it is in European countries but still in our system, in our particularly rural areas, right where there are not enough doctors, I think that the home of health is the one who has to take care that everyone has health care and therefore, Mr. Minister, you have our support, a lot has been done and, of course, we'll all do everything else for the next 2 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97444	And on your exhibit, we have a replica of the esteemed Agent Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the minister and associate. Dear colleague, regarding the home of health, I agree with you as well, the health centres are the centers just to pray that, here is the minister, to all those who wish to have their own home of health, every city that wants to be released, not that the county is the founder of a health home in certain cities, municipalities. I'm also an amazing minister because the minister is a man of the profession who is recognized in the world with his profession and here the Harlequins who have no idea about health or the profession or anything, teach such a man a lesson. And secondly, he's a realtor, and the Iots are already born from college, they're bright and smart people, so we're the better minister we can't have. A man is professional, bright and smart at birth, but it's a world profession and world recognition and that's why he needs his hat off and... Harlequins, individuals who have no idea of anything but teach various lectures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97446	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97447	Thank you, Chairman. Our role here is to channel the will and attitudes and experiences of our voters both towards the public and the government, which is an expert body that implements the laws. So let's start in order. They taught me from history why there was a huge increase in the population on Earth. As it first increased, the hygienic conditions improved, secondly, there was more food production. So, Mr. Kujundzic, why do you have to leave, because you failed to meet at least those two basic conditions? Here's a picture of you today. Food, a meal in the Croatian hospital, freshly painted, as we can see, here we have a piece of salami, a piece of cheese, some yogurt and two slices of bread. I'm not going to go in quality, it's food for an adult minister, for a child, for an adult. People are crowned in the stomach in Croatian hospitals. You think that populism is heard from your stomach? You can't hear it. Let's move on, please. I'd like to share a personal experience, maybe say things here in public that I've never said before, my two children were born in Peter's hospital in Zagreb because of a risky pregnancy. It's that when you enter Peter's hospital, you have a sanitary node right at the right end of the entrance. In that sanitary knot and there is often an wasp to pass it because at the passing point, there is no toilet paper in that knot, no sink, the toilet is questionable functionality and during a larger period, over a few years, the condition simply did not improve, always the same picture. If you go further, there was no gauze in which you would wipe out the fertile water at a high level of pregnancy on the beds, while I was there. It wasn't. If you don't take care of yourself and if a good doctor doesn't get you equipment from his money, your poor mother. Keep going. Incubators. The incubator does not have enough, my own child was removed from the incubator several days earlier than it should have, because it was the healthiest, thank God it was the healthiest, and it could have been without the incubator, although it was not necessary, so that other children who were in difficult conditions could come into that incubator. What if the same situation comes to some kid who's gonna get worse because of it, because there's no equipment missing? If you go to a place where mothers lie with newborn children, your sisters will tell you that there are not enough clothes or clothes for the children they're dressing, that it's covered with tape, here I am, personally by then, one of the first constituencies, gone and bought a number of these bodies for the children, that I didn't say it out loud now, it doesn't matter, or ask for your thanks because I'm not asking for your resignation here, I'm not asking for your resignation here, Mr. Kujundzic. But if you go down to where the mothers are breastfeeding, only a few days before they leave, lying on the beds, mattresses have been good since before the war, bloody, often sheets in that condition, sheets, sheets, they've got to be able to come out of other rooms, there's everything. It's an experience of me and my wife and other people, my voters write to me on a daily basis what happens and how happens, here's a fresh picture of Mr. Kujundzic. So why do you have to leave? Because the basic conditions in hospitals, food, clothing and sanitary nodes, Mr. Kujundzic, have failed to resolve you as minister. The system you manage is a system that generates depression in Croatian hospitals and while depression, can a patient in such an atmosphere recover successfully? Let's go further, although I won't be able to make it maybe 1/3 of what I wanted, you once said there was a time, so there's no doctor, they're leaving because the better countries, the richer they're dragging them away. Here's Mr. Jens Spahn, German Federal Minister of Health in the Government of Angela Merkel, running the German health system. It is not because he is successful, because Germany is a successful country, so it is not your fault because you are a failure, so what should he do, should you bring down German hospitals so that you may measure with him? Please be careful what you say. Let's move on, please. Let's get back to the Immunological Institute, that unfortunate regulation and the decision I asked you to make. Here I read to you Article 21 of this Regulation: The Government of the Republic of Croatia will, by special decision, transfer the entire property of the Immunological Institute d.d. at the Institute of the Institute. The answers to the information I've been looking for are still missing, you said transferred, will compensate or co-ownership will be given to the facility. Whether a private person may be co-owner in one institution or under what conditions. Do you know why propo's the first such attempt, that's exactly the kind of decision, because of that sort of thing? Let's move on, at the end of December 2016 Prof. Dr. Milan Kujundzic, on the Joint Committee on Health and Agriculture, is here, notes that the Republic of Croatia has not had more industrial production in the last 20 years to be exposed to radiation, but that the occurrence of the disease is not due to better diagnostics but rather to the introduction of higher levels of toxins to food, which is a problem that will have to be solved at national level. Even then, you claimed after an unfortunate death in Bregana because of the rotten eggs of salmonella that the problem of so many outbreaks of disease in Croatia is right in the food. Then, among others, there was a debate on genetically modified products, so I've sent you questions many times and it's not exactly Mr. Reiner that the Ministry of Health has nothing to do with it. Your Minister Tolusic says that he has, exactly, one part of agriculture, three inspections, veterinary and agricultural units falling under the Ministry of Agriculture, but the sanitary unit falls under the Ministry of Health. Croatian citizens want to know what they eat, want to know what's in their food, we are not going to discuss GMOs there is no scientific consensus, but it is an unnecessary risk. Most citizens believe that this is an unnecessary risk, that they are jeopardising their health and want clearly marked products. You have not been able to make the rule that is then mentioned until today, Tolusic points to Kujundzic, Kujundzic to Tolušić for two years, and the quality of food is what we can import and who makes us laws, Borgs and other lobbys. Since I am running out of time, what is another of the biggest problems in Croatian health? It's just clientelism, that's what when you have a credit card but not ordinary but when you have a credit card of a social credit to one of the ruling parties then you open a lot of doors, you progress faster, you skip the lists for review and everything else that goes along with it, so we have practice in Croatia that people who are successful, such as surgeon Dinko Šimac, such as a prominent surgeon, must say that my name has escaped, was quite an exposed case some time ago and many others are due to nepotism, because of the incompetence removed or demoted Croatian hospitals. Professionalism is often not a criterion but a similarity, but a credit card of a social loan. Paladino, thank you fellow.../incomprehensible/... Mr. Paladino's quite exposed case. Ask the young doctors if that's the case, ask the patients if it's the case, my voters tell me it is, and that's why I'm saying it here is because I represent my voters and they're also asking for your resignation. Furthermore, you have reduced the health care system to a system that loses its meaning. Why? If a person is suffering from a disease, it may be cancer, and in three years or two, he will be screened and he will already die three times, which is the purpose of such a system, as effective as the Croatian judiciary. It may be some extremes, but it happens and it's our reality. You are the minister who fell for pushing me to put it this way, here is the list of the official Assembly body of your laws that you sent to the Croatian Parliament, 15 were, or acts total, 10 were written by Europe of 15, 1 was the international convention again you didn't write, 2 were the current reports that the radio system that would have been made without you, 1 the law had just come from you but if you read it mainly called for the change to Europe and 1 was only yours, the Health Protection Act, but it was withdrawn from the procedure and only after this call for recall you were as a package of laws sent to the Parliament. If you need us we'll stop calling you off to do something. And to end another thesis o replication [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97448	You've said your thesis. We have one replica of the respected representative Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97449	Here's my colleague, Sincic, I'm very sorry that you had such a bad experience with Peter's hospital, and I had the same baby in that same hospital, and I can't say and I can't give a single review to a person. What you're saying about mattresses is that at Peter's hospital, so pathology, pregnancy 1 and 2 are restored departments, along with these same mattresses, so I don't really know where your lady was lying. On the other hand, you're talking about how your child was taken from the incubator and you're saying something that points out, I'd say a lot of criticism to the medical staff. So I guarantee you that no doctor has done anything wrong to your child and at the moment if the child is removed from the incubator, it is likely for a reason. You're saying there's a lack of incubator, I believe that's the case, but as far as I know at Peter's hospital will be soon. restore those incubators that are about 15 years old. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97450	Answer my colleague, Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97451	.../Incomprehensible/... to say that I am not looking for anything for myself and for my child, I have only cited it as an example from personal experience, and I repeat our voters on a daily basis send us such and similar experiences throughout the Republic of Croatia. What I forgot to say at the very beginning and I keep saying thank you Croatian doctors, Croatian nurses, technicians, tenants who maintain our health institutions that sometimes give out of their pockets money to patch up those holes that the minister is unable to resuscitate. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97452	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97453	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers with an associate. Indeed, we could now continue to list, all that Minister Kujundzic has promised in the programme crediblely, he has been in some other parties before, but well, now it's been current, so, let's say, we have, he says, he will provide palitative care 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, emergency assistance, that he will have teams that will intervene within a maximum of 60 minutes, 365 days a year, 24 hours. We know that's not exactly practical. He said he would stop the doctor's drain from Croatia, and 600 doctors left Croatia, corner. A specialist. And another 1700 requested papers to leave, which means more than 2,000 people left. I'd like to know what you've done to stop those doctors. Do you know what measures other countries have taken, e.g. Romania, what did Poland do? Every country has done something, in a way, reacted, but you haven't done anything concrete. Persecute the experts, here, let's say, persecute Dinko Stimec in KBC Rijeka, because, well, it's our sympathiser, but it shouldn't have anything to do with it, when you're looking at the waist, you're also all members of some parties, right? in HDZ, because it's the only way that health can progress. And you know that Professor Stimac, by choice of patients, is the best neurosurgeon in Croatia, you know that he has great results, that he is a doctor, but you fired him, you replaced him and fired the best specialists there, started mobbing and all to put your friends in the vacant places. That's very bad. However, I still want to say one thing that is very important here, and it is a reference to these hints, i.e., to think that all of this was triggered because death occurred in Zapresic. No, the death of Mateo in Zapresic is only a cause, to start this shift, and the causes are much deeper. It was just a drop that spilled just a glass, and the glass was full and it's already two years old. I would dare say a lot longer, because we have all the time implementing a single policy, its continuity in which health funds are constantly increasing, while the quality of the service is increasing. And that is a trend that simply offends common sense and that is why we in the Living Wall, from the first day on, the appointment of this government, have not supported Minister Kujundzic. So we weren't for him then, and even less after that, the experience of half the term, we tend to support the same magistrate. Because I repeat once again, if any resistor has money, then it's health care. You have funds in HZZO, 24 billion, how much does your ministry have? 12 billion. You have additional health insurance, that kind of money goes to privates, participations, I don't know how much money, etc. And you persistently the only measure you know how to spend a wheeze give me more money, give me more money. That's all, when Minister Kujundzic shows up in the media, what he's looking for, he's asking for more money. You're in charge of health care for an enormous amount of 8 billion kn, health care is due, who created these debts, where those debts came from. Is there a responsibility? If you're not, tell me who's responsible for this, who's responsible for the health care debts. And why this whole, called tax reform, I'll say it's tax reform, tax reform is a wonderful curtain, to give you money, on the burden of which, on the burden of Croatian citizens. You're increasing your contribution by 10%. You're increasing the labour price. Croatia is now among the EU's leading countries, at the same time for health care, 6.5% of GDP, and you still need more. And now say if you of the citizens take any more money, do you have any guarantee that the debts will no longer increase? Can you tell us, Minister Kujundzic, for which you will spend an additional billion kn 300 million a year? I'd like to know what you're gonna spend it on. Say that I don't know, the salaries of nurses, surgeons, medications, new buildings, anything we know, give that transparency. No, you're just saying, give me more, and what I'm gonna do with it, it's, it's not your concern, it's just me. And there is this big problem, because you get more money a year than the entire Croatian agriculture received from Croatia's independence. So it costs more your health than all the agriculture in 28 years than all the shipbuilding. As much as 10 billion kn more per year you get, than the shipbuilding won in 1990. We want the principle of the Ministry of Health as a person who, with an existing budget, will reform the system and improve its quality. A man who's capable of a little bit of giving a lot, not a man who's just looking for more and giving a little. That's it, I just think, I don't have anything personal against you. I believe you're an excellent doctor, and you wouldn't mind if I came to see you for an examination. But you simply didn't use the resources you have at your disposal, and that's why you have to leave. Not to mention this unfortunate Immunological Institute and the broken down pharmaceutical industry and the price of drugs that are too high and public procurement that are no good. Apparently, very bad for those suppliers, those pharmacists. Give me an example that one of the only pharmacies in Croatia went bankrupt, that one drug supplier went bankrupt, never one. Why? Because they have enormous margins, enormous profits, enormous profits. Which is the most profitable company here in Međimurje County, you know which drugstore Čakovec, the most profitable company. If they're the most profitable, you can't, you can't say there's no money in health care. There's actually a lot of money. People who deal with pharmaceuticals, who deal with medicine, are rich people in this society, they're not poor people. And that's why I object to giving you more than one kuna. I am sure that in the Republic of Croatia there is a person who would improve the system in the existing frameworks and then perhaps a tax reform could be carried out where wages would be increased, rather than contributions, then it might be possible, but this is not because you must be given some money from the beginning. To you and to Mr. Pavic for the pension system. Your two ministries are the main generators of debt in the existing system of course. The whole system sucks, but in that bad system... And when that got rid of it, health care and pensions would take a little time off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in two years, as long as you're here, that hasn't worked out. So I'm asking you to just leave your place to someone who's long because this is just an extension of agony that just doesn't make sense. You will come here again in a year, for two, and again you will whine give me two billion, five billion, ten billion, no more, when more is enough of this and the milking of the Croatian budget and... You've got quite enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there's something missing, there's no culture, there's no education, there's no food enough for those restaurants, there might be something... But it doesn't have to keep on giving to you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we're looking for your shifts. And these excesses and these affairs that spontaneously appear every little bit, they are only an additional reason and that is what is important for Croatian citizens to hear and my colleagues here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97454	We've got a replica of the respected representative of the Icedows.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You were talking to your friend Bunjac about a lot of health problems. But you didn't mention a problem in which you and I are witnessing in our professional work which, let's say, the minister is not directly responsible, but actually tells us about how much cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, it's a lack of child psychologists and psychiatrists in schools. I don't know what your school experience is, my school experience is terrible, in Zagreb schools there are more and more attempts at suicide of adolescents, more addicts, more and more departures, leaving primary school, we have a lack of one such profession as is important for education, so to comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97456	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97457	Thank you very much, dear representative of Sladolev. So I would comment on it in a way that simply somewhere there are deficiencies in the system. I repeat again, so money is not a problem, I don't think it's a problem. Why don't psychiatrists, psychologists, defecologists, doctors organize themselves, why don't we do some timely specialist examinations. Here are the cases that autism is not diagnosed at all in time. We speak in good time. He has to be diagnosed within a year, it takes a year for someone to even get checked out. And if we're not gonna take care of the kids who are sick, then I really don't know who... We haven't cared about the old people in a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's the children's turn. And it's simple, here I repeat once again, you've had a chance for two years, you failed, you have no guarantee it'll get better Stand down. [[The incursion of Vice-President of the Assembly: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97458	The next individual replica of that respected representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go. It's not a replica, it's a debate, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97459	Dear fellow MPs, I'd like to say one thought to the Minister. In Croatia there are 12 MR devices per 100,000 inhabitants, Germany has 33 and Japan 65. So it's clear that we're technologically lagging behind. However, what is crucial, which you would like to point out is the problem. We all know who Zdravko Mamić is. Mamic's health is now being Satanized through the media, demonized, depicted as a black devil. Why? One of the reasons is that he sort of made, like, slave agreements with players. At the same time, however, the state health system, the state hospitals of doctors who, for example, agree to specialize, require that in case they leave the hospital to pay a million and 200 thousand kuna. So are you aware of what that is? So we have a health system that has no other mechanism to keep health care personnel, but to tie them to slave contracts. If you leave, give me a million kunas, then go. Such contracts, and you are aware of the wages in Croatia, and even the doctor, are below each level. You're that head on top of that and the pyramid that should work, which should be said, let's say, well, the man's been going to special for two years, let's say that specialization is worth 100,000 kuna, so let's say he gets 100 thousand kuna back. But no, you say a million kunas back. And why is that? Well, that's what I told you from the pay phone, I told you the pay was nothing. That he simply pays the doctor and the driver in ZET is an al-mari. Well, that tells you everything, that tells you everything about our health system, and that's also an answer to why doctors are leaving. But I'm going to give you another example, not only are the doctors leaving, unfortunately they're leaving, and many patients are dying, because the system isn't working. You assure us that the situation is good, however, here's an example. Patients who are suffering from Chron's disease, I don't know if you've known this drug immune for two months now. How is it possible he's not here? And it's simple, and it's gone. But it's not the only problem, I'll give you a few more reasons, i.e. Two crucial reasons why I think you need to leave. One is that you have not moved Croatia in a progressive direction. When I say in a progressive direction, I don't mean world-controlled but I mean, like legalizing hemp. So we know you've been waiting a long time for tests, that medications often don't exist for the most severe diseases but there's a drug called Indian hemp. There is a medicine that has cured many, many works have written scientificly, there are many living witnesses, so people who have cured themselves thanks to hemp, or marijuana. We've submitted a motion to legalize marijuana. And you know why we handed him over, Mr. Kujundzic? So because every few people write to us, good day, I'm sick this one or that one, can you get me a cure, I need a hemp, I need oil, I need this, I need that one. And how can we help them? Not at all. Well, I don't have a plantation. Not a colleague of Bunjac's or a colleague of Sincic's. And those few people, so to speak an unfortunate man like Juanita from Rijeka who didn't, who didn't have any rich guy, or any drug dealer, he grew up literally for his treatment, for multiple sclerosis, him who treated himself you sentenced to 2 years in prison. It's a health policy and a judicial policy of our system. A sick man, instead of helping him, you say amigo, here's two years, go to a Rijeka prison, go to Via Roma. Is that a solution? Is it a solution for a man to go to jail just because he wanted to be treated? You're all gonna say it's not here. Yes, of course not, but in practice it happens and why is that happening? I explained because hemp is not legal, because that noble plant is forbidden. Why is it forbidden? Because there are various lobbies she doesn't answer. And the Living Wall is the only political party in this House to advocate its legalization. And what exactly am I trying to tell you? I can understand that you tell people, look we're a corrupt government or I'm an incompetent minister or what it is, your problems aren't my priorities, etc., so the system won't help you, so you treat yourself. Here's a hemp, you have epilepsy, you have a melanoma, you have a brain tumor whatever problem you have, take the hemp. No, you tell people you can't take hemp, people know that the health system doesn't work, and unfortunately, the result is often fatal outcomes. And I'm going to give you another example, although in the vast majority of EU countries, even in the United States, vaccination is a matter of good faith, in Croatia it is still mandatory, which means that parents are being punished for not vaccinated their children, which means they can't enroll children in regular kindergartens, etc. Even though those kids are healthy. Why? You haven't been vaccinated. And that's the problem, and that's one of the reasons why I think you need to leave. And I'll tell you about the end, in the very taste of everything, I mentioned the death of Mate Ruzic. You said, I talked to his parents or father, as it were, but I have to tell you that by reading his parents' comments to your answer to me, I got the impression that these people don't trust you at all, that they don't believe in this health system at all, that they don't believe in the autopsy and that they actually believe that this is about one cover-up, that this is about a cat whose goal is to reduce, hide or rule out the responsibility of those who should be responsible for what? Because the ambulance didn't arrive in time, because the man died on the road choking. And secondly, when the emergency team arrived, it was not an ambulance that came, but a sanity without a doctor who would give treatment without treatment and without treatment. They didn't have a man to give. And in any normal country where there is any system of responsibility for those who have organised emergency aid in such a way and even if the patient did not die because of it, we should simply say, look, we are ashamed, we are ashamed that the system does not work, we are ashamed that people die on the road waiting for an ambulance, but not in Croatia. In Croatia you look at us all here as it is said in the people as a calf in a colorful door and simply ignore and what parents say and what the citizens of Zapresic have been saying and at the end of what we are saying, it is all irrelevant to you. And why is that? Because you don't think what's best for Croatia. You're thinking what's best for you. And that's why you don't want to resign. And in order to save yourself, you will not say no to me doing this to save my chair but to convince God out of noble motives so that Croatian patients would be well, that their health would be excellent etc.. Like I said, the truth can't be, it can't be any further than that. The victim of Croatian health care is many and the biggest victims are except for patients, I have already said this and at the very beginning only personnel working in difficult conditions, which are not given to nurses contracts indefinitely, which are not paid overtime and the state is doing better to control that work overtime, and what because they have to do if you don't work, we won't extend the contract to you and worst yet, complains that the birth is bad and the nurse says listen, if you're going to get pregnant, we won't extend the contract. You as a minister to any director who, by saying to a nurse, should say sir, I'm sorry, you can no longer be a director and do you, not and of course as I said, people are bitter and that is why we are ultimately here, aware that the majority of whom is made up of Bandic, HDZ, HNS and minorities will simply If anyone were you, they would protect him and cover him. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97460	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97461	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. So we have before us a proposal to show our trust to the Minister of Health, Dr. Milan Kujundzic is composed of 26 points. Here, I should be representing the parliamentary majority, as I should defend Minister Kujundzic, but I don't know what. In fact, all these 26 points and their argument actually gave Minister Kujundzic more opportunity to show success in front of the entire Croatian public today from his ministry and this government. Therefore, I will not manifest myself from point to point, but I still want to touch on some of the arguments made in this argument. For example, Minister Kujundzic objectes, therefore, to the professionally trained, or incapacitated, T2 emergency teams because they are not expert in emergency resuscitation, which is not, of course, true because every nurse, a technician, is trained in emergency resuscitation. On the other hand, even if that were true, these teams were introduced in 2009 and it is a question of what the Government was doing from 2010 to 2015, therefore. On the other hand, it honours the minister that he has not introduced a helicopter service and in fact the former government has introduced the service, shut down the pilot project and has not offered an alternative. Minister Kujundzic and this government have done the only possible, so they have solved the problem with the help of the MUP and OS and the service has worked well but at the same time they have generated 35m-euro funds to obtain a health helicopter service, but they have not obtained a helicopter and get the same car. You can't buy an emergency helicopter service and a six, you need to equip it, you need to train the staff to provide those services, and that process is ongoing, as I see it. In an explanation of calls in the area of strengthening primary health care where there is actually a list of beautiful desires and good standards that can be found in any brochure of the World Health Organization and not actually objections to the poor organisation of primary health care. In some proposals concerning primary health care, I would say that from a professional point of view, they are at least discriminatory. Namely, units for physical rehabilitation of neuromuscular diseases at home are proposed. So, I've been in my career for a long time with my orthopedic, more concrete child orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic treatment of neuromuscular diseases. Well, I'm familiar with the neurophysiotherapy of a baby with cerebral palsy, that a neurophysian, neurophysiotherapist, orthotherapist, etc., and I'm afraid it's not possible to organize it in every home of health and to be at a high level of expertise. There are some solutions, I have developed a concept as the Minister of Health in BiH... which are designed to cover the population of some 80 to 100 000 inhabitants, and of course they are staying in one of the health homes to which the population is gravitating, so the centres were for physical and mental rehabilitation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is certainly not possible in every home of health. What Minister Kujundzic should be credited with, in fact, strengthening primary protection on... and a family doctor or a family medicine team on the principle of giving a keeper, therefore, someone who guards the whole system and where, in fact, in ideal conditions, it should satisfy about 80% of the needs of a citizen for health care in general, which, of course, this concept and this preparation of a new law, goes in this direction because it is actually how hospital health care costs are reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That, however, does not go overnight, of course. And these 180 million kunas as far as I could see, which were prepared for the education of these doctors or teams actually go for the primary health care to qualify the new... As far as hospital health care is concerned, it may seem to me very competent to assess some of the moves and some of the reforms of this ministry, I myself have been dealing with the rationalization of hospital health services as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An expert on World Bank projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And actually, instead of abolishing substandard hospitals, so either by shaving patients, by quality, etc., Minister Kujundzic has accessed one possible approach and that is the rationalization of the hospital's network in a way that connects hospitals and I get there... All that he said today, you who come from these parts, know well what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the introduction of a payment system in hospitals, in acute hospitals so-called ... and their modification now carried out by Minister Kujundzic will, in fact, contribute to a safe reduction in health care costs and efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, I support Minister Kujundzic's intensities for a more even deployment of hospital healthcare facilities. We see only Zagreb, in the northwestern zone of Zagreb are all hospitals, Holy Spirit of Vinogradska, Mercury, Rebro, Dubrava, Jordanovac, etc., but the whole of Zagreb, the entire population is in the southeastern zone or most of it. And that's why I absolutely support these proposals, so the National Children's Hospital in Blato, and tomorrow the National University Hospital, and so should think in other areas. Finally, bigger laymen both than me and you know that health care could be better, always, there are no systems in the world that satisfy all, therefore criteria. However, knowing that Croatia singles out just a little more than 1000 dollars per capital for healthcare and one Swiss $8000 and other countries are among them, America even more, then we need to know what is expected. And the basis of this, I can say here on the basis of one survey from 2017, very relevant, based on the Eurohealth consumer index methodology and on 6 indicators, i.e. 6 categories of healthcare indicators in 35 countries in Europe, shows that Croatia is somewhere in the middle of many indicators in front of much more developed EU countries that are more isolated for healthcare. For example. Patients' rights and information category Croatia is in the upper half along with Austria, Finland and Great Britain, in the category of availability and waiting time, Croatia is again above the middle, above Denmark, above Finland, Portugal, e.g. There are as many as 20 EU countries behind Croatia according to this indicator. In the category of outcome, which is very important, Croatia is around the middle together to Cyprus and Greece, again behind Croatia 7 EU countries. And finally, when all these indicators are summed up, Croatia is located around the middle, again 12 EU countries behind Croatia. Of course, the results of the work of previous ministers and health professionals in hospitals are included. And I would much more appreciate this proposal to show confidence that he was supported, so... In 2016, when the minister took office today, however, there is no such thing as here, there are actually just some things that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I want to, on the basis of all this and after all the arguments expressed by the Prime Minister and the Minister himself and most of the debaters here, actually just congratulate Minister Kujundzic because he's actually going in the right direction, strengthening primary health care, reducing the cost of foreign demand, because people who meet their more needs in primary healthcare will seek less treatment in hospitals that are most expensive. Further strengthening, so I'm hospitalized... Updating equipment, purchasing here recently or ordering an operating robot, modern devices, diagnostics, daily hospitals etc., etc., reduces costs and increases efficiency on the side of the offer and in fact these two activities, so these two approaches to reform meet in a way that increases the effectiveness, i.e. health efficiency and at the same time efficiency, hence its cost-effectiveness and thus saves funds and generates funds for expensive medicines that have never been paid before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to bring out one indicator here now. So paying for medicines from public funds in the countries of medium-development and less development is about 23 to 3% and the rest from the pocket, paying for medicines from developed public funds countries is about 61%. Croatia pays 80% therefore from public funds for medicines spent here in Croatia. Therefore, my dear friends or the public of Croatia. Croatia has good health care, excellent health care given the isolation and all the problems it faces and, of course, Minister Kujundzic deserves our trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97462	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97463	Thank you very much. My colleague Ljubic, what is surprising is that despite all the data that says otherwise, you claim to be well with us. If prevention criteria are then in Croatia an increase in the number of chronic diabetes-type diseases or some others does not indicate good health care. If it is an average of how many people live, if in Croatia we have an average of 77.5 years of the average age of Croatian citizens and in the EU it is over 80 years as well as good health? If we look at the indices to measure Croatian health in 2013, we were 36 in the world, 2018. 55. Well, what's good about that, Mr. Ljubic? So don't cheat on people, people listen to this, they need to know the data. Our health care is in constant decline.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97464	Thank you very much, dear representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97465	Thank you. So it is known that the approximately impact of the health system on the health of the population is only about 20 percent, everything else depends on genetics, living conditions, lifestyle, etc., etc. Croatia is the country with perhaps the most fat people, or among the highest in Europe, etc., which is also a obesity risk factor for health. However, when I talk about indicators, what I said earlier is the scientific institute's data. Therefore, these are not fictional data, they only talk about the fact that the health care system in Croatia, in fact, given the isolations and all the problems faced by the lifestyle, the consequences of war, stress, lifestyles, is a good health system. And he admits it to us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97466	The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97467	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ljubic, I'm only obliged here to correct one of the allegations that you said, namely that health care depends on the amount of money that stands out for him. If you didn't know according to the official VHO statistics, the country with the most successful health care in the world is Cuba. ... Cuba. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There your people live longer than in Croatia, have fewer dead newborns than in Croatia, far less cancer than in Croatia, malignant diseases etc., and do not have much money. The most interesting thing is already under sanctions for 70 years, doctor's salary may be $100, $200, but they have the most successful health care system. There you can treat yourself for the most severe diseases completely free of charge and most importantly successful. Therefore, we must all claim that we must have money like Switzerland in order to be healthy simply does not drink water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97468	The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97469	Comrade Bunjac, you didn't listen to my debate I was actually saying the opposite. Croatia singles out only 1,000 and slightly more dollars per capita for health care and one Switzerland 8,000, and in fact the difference in the quality of the system and the quality of the health level is not even close, and I just said that the lifestyle, the lifestyle of Cuba is different than with us safe and nutritious because genetics are much more important than the health system is ideal. Do you know this information, for example, the British royal family had an expected life span of the British people today on average, why, because they were probably living healthy, eating healthy, less worried, less stress, etc., etc. That's what I'm saying, so here when we talk about health, then the health minister should actually be prime minister and we all here as a council, and the health minister is responding...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97470	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljke Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97471	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are today discussing all sorts of topics, I'd say one of the topics was health care. What shocked me at one point at the very beginning of the debate was that you were all proving that health care only existed for the last two years and that Minister Kujundzic was responsible for everything that happened in the health system. I won't mention at all that there were allegations that he was responsible for the development of cancer to the cause of infertility, etc. I don't work long in health care maybe, but I've been working for the last 10 years, I know what it's like when I started working, and in what conditions I started working, I know what emergency medical care was, and probably some colleagues who were older than me will remember it. What we had at our disposal at the time as paramedics in medical care was disastrous. Now doctors and nurses have much, much more and much more knowledge can be available. We were doctors at the time who came directly from college to the first team because there was no doctor at the time. What I must certainly highlight is my Emergency Medical Service, the County Institute of Sisak-Moslavina County has quality staff, people who are constantly educated, who conduct internal education, who go to international courses and for these people I could never say that they do anything. What happened and what is used to obtain cheap political points is really not right if we need to discuss health care why such a session could not be made beyond such events. What I must point out is that my county stands out for additional emergency teams of about 2.5 million kuna, these are teams in Topusco and the Court. Here is mentioned on several occasions in the Cetina region as a poor area with an old population that has been abandoned by all of us. So Sisak-Moslavina County is territorially one of the largest counties, one of the oldest counties, in Banovina is the rarest settlement, just on this one, in these parts the county decided to give money and allow those old people to reach medical care and to access quality health care. So let's not keep saying that only the Ministry of Health is one and only responsible for all residents. We must finally come to the attention of both the mayors and the mayors and the mayors, so all those involved in the conduct of the authorities are responsible because people chose them and are responsible for their own population. Let's not talk all the time. Let's wait for something to come. Let's do something ourselves. I'm going to look back and not just on emergency medical aid, but on all those superstandards that the county was paying for. In the last few years, here I have to single out a few cities in my county, and that's Kutina and Clay paying for their above standard. So they allow their residents not to have to go to distant cities in the most common, in the usual laboratory, they have isolated from their budgets that the population can do so in their own city. Here are some examples I always like to mention. What got me stuck in my ear at one point, which is a total untruth and I have to react to, and I couldn't at that point was payout at the Sisak hospital. As far as I know, by today's payoff, absolutely all the wages are paid along with travel expenses. Is that the one who said it didn't accidentally promote it, or was it deliberately said, here I would ask that we don't speak at least for this false speaker but to have those facts. What needs to be emphasized specializations are costing and we're all aware of it, so I'm also aware, did a colleague at one point say that the doctor was forced to pay more than a million kuna damages. So those contracts are no longer valid. That contract was signed by me when I came to the specialization, but that contract is not worth it. It seems to me, for three years, since Minister Nakic, when we were signing contract annexes. So the maximum compensation that should be paid under the new rule is about 250,000 kuna. Of course, we doctors disagree, of course, that we feel that this is wrong, but here I suggest that we get into the debate because I think we will soon have another reading of the Health Care Act so that we can hear all those suggestions that might happen on this subject, which in some way could keep doctors. So, the mammal hospital has more than 10 apartments. All apartments are offered to doctors and staff travelling to the town of Sisak. Only one doctor asked him to live and take one apartment for use. So this apartment has been renovated and this apartment will be assigned to a doctor for use. So no one else wanted to take any apartment. What should be said in the end, in these last two years, it wasn't all so black that it was still done and that something had been done. Here, I will mention, that we have invested in our specializations especially in primary health care, which we all like to mention very much and that we believe nothing is being invested in. The fact that it needs to be strengthened and it needs to be the main part of that one of our health systems, to relieve secondary health care. Here, and through these investments in primary specializations, it's going to be around 200 people. In the hospital where I worked for a long time, the equipment wasn't restored. In the last few years, we've started rebuilding equipment. All those who work in health care know that this equipment is expensive and that nothing is as cheap as it seems. Through grants from European funds, it has invested in this controversial magnetic resonance that is so much talked about, and some aniosles in our clinical hospitals and KBCs, then... The RTG apparatus, for intervention cardiology, is also not listed further, to those very important especially for us on the project periphery, which are daily hospitals, united emergency hospital receptions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if you go into any of our hospitals, then you'll see that those years, somewhere back in the '80s, haven't been restored at all. So these are projects, which are very important to us and that we support anyway, no matter who they are or who they're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97472	Thank you very much. The next debate is that respected representative of Angel Strick's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97473	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister of State, Secretary of State and fellow Members. The very proposal to launch the issue of the health minister's trust to Professor Milan Kujundzic, who was submitted by 31 representatives of the Croatian Parliament, shows that as many as 12 SDP deputies are present. I'm not surprised by the signatories of the Bridge or the Living Wall, but the SDP does. Namely, being in a position and being able to improve, not do anything, and then calling everyone around, is obviously only to the SDP. In fact, in Kukurik, Milanovic's diameter, members of the SDP have just acted as health minister. For health institutions in Varazdin County, general hospital in Varazdin, spa hospital for the medical rehabilitation of the Varazdin spa, home of health, hospital for emergency medicine, Institute of Public Health of the Varazdin County, did nothing, but nothing at all. By contrast, the current government of the diameter of Plenkovic has turned the area of the Varazdin County literally into a large construction site. The most important investments, i.e. health care projects. As part of the Varazdin General Hospital, in Novi Marof, an extension treatment facility was built and a palitative care facility worth 51 million and 500 thousand kuna, and in Varazdin, construction of a daily hospital worth 49 million and 800 thousand kuna and a united emergency hospital reception of 19 million and 900 thousand kuna. A number of medical devices, devices were obtained, as well as for the diagnosis of a magnetic resonance worth 8 million kn. At present, an 83 million and 500 thousand kuna energy efficiency project is being implemented at hospital facilities. As part of the spa hospital for the medical rehabilitation of the Varazdin spa, the project for the construction and equipment of the National Rehabilitation Centre for persons with diseases and spinal cord damage for which the main project was built and the construction permit was started, and the project value was 83 million kn. Energy recovery projects worth € 124 million have also been prepared. In the health home of the Varazdin County and the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Varazdin County, a specialist training of medicine is carried out, which is set aside by 16 million kunas. All of the above investments, i.e. The projects amount to over 435 million kn. Due to political correctness, I stress that the projects that have been completed have been prepared during the former mayor of Štromar, the rest have continued or started in this current term of Mayor Cacic. I can therefore stress that ensuring equally accessible and quality health services is one of the priorities of the current government programme and the current health minister, Professor Kujundzic. All of the information I have provided on investments in health care in the healthcare institution in the area of the Varazdin County, I have managed to do so. So, in the introduction of my debate, I said, I am not surprised that among the signatories, the movement of the questions of the health minister's trust and SDP representatives, obviously all of these investments in healthcare in northern Croatia, are, more specifically, in the Varazdin County. They would continue their course, i.e. that nothing is built, that the most vulnerable groups of society, persons with disabilities retired, injured, to specialist examinations, treatment goes hundreds of miles away. That we don't have a day hospital, or an emergency hospital reception, a quality... The short notice is that we have nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why if you want nothing done, that your citizens are without quality health care, you're looking for the Minister's recall, which gives all these projects full support. I therefore give you a lot of support in the work and implementation of all these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97474	Thank you. We've got a replica of the esteemed representative of Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97475	Thank you very much. Mr. Strick, this article of yours in style of supporting past times when it was read praises, praises to some colleagues from the Central Committee or somewhere, I don't know where you learned it, but that reminds me of it. I just need to remind you of one thing here, we are not discussing the responsibility of Mayor Cacic or former mayor of Štromar. Because this is all you've listed, these are county-owned facilities. What does that have to do with what you've been talking about with the subject we're discussing today? Well, you have now told everything that is in the county's jurisdiction and commended Štromar and Cacic, but you did not defend Mr Kujundzic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97476	The answer of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97477	Comrade Maras, here's a commendation for SDP. So on Monday, we marked 27 years since the declaration of independence. In those 27 years, the SDP designed, spent, and solemnly opened only one project in the area of the Varazdin County. And that's the reconstruction of the elevator about the water tower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97478	Thank you very much, and now the individual debate will have a respected representative, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. If there were political responsibilities in Croatia, the minister would not have any dilemmas today. He would resign for several reasons, not only these 26 that were written in the request. But the fact is, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not satisfied with the health system. Check people, ask them what they think, and you'll see what the answer will be. Doctors are not satisfied with the health system. When you look at the show that I saw a while ago, the lady who runs the family medicine association speaks to the minister, represents thousands of doctors and tells the minister that health care is in a catastrophic situation. Well, don't say that then, Grumoja, Maras, Bulj, Bacic and some other MPs in HS, that's what your fellow ministers say, they say that. So tell me why our doctors would leave Croatia so massively if healthcare in Croatia is good. At this point, we're 30% short on doctors, and I'm asking you to give me back my time until the proposer returns. Excuse me, Government representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97480	.../Vice of Vice President: He is not the Proposer, you are the Proposers./
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97481	...representative of the government until he returns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97482	.../Vice of the Vice President: You don't have to be him./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97483	...must be, it says in the Rules of Procedure HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97484	.../Vice of Vice President: Do not read Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97485	...is this normal behavior for you, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97486	I'm just telling you that it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97487	...means the government's coming out of the assembly while the MPs are talking about the subject, so that's normal behavior for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97488	.../Vice of Vice President: First, er./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97489	...so ensure the minimum parliamentary democracy, Mr. Vice President. This is scandalous. I'm talking about the data here, Mr. Secretary is going gunning down and leaving the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97490	.../Vice of Vice President: There is a representative of the State Secretary here, this minister went out for a moment, sitting here all the time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97491	...yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97492	And when you were gone, he was sitting here the whole time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97493	... okay, I'm just saying that's not the order and I hope you'll make sure it doesn't happen again. 30% missing doctors, 40% gynecologist, 45% primary pediatricians. The situation is catastrophic. Is it because our fellow citizens spend too little money on health care? We're out 15% of gross wages now. In some other countries, twice as much is set aside, and healthcare functions correctly, better than it is in Croatia. The fact is that our health is unfortunately poorly organised, that money is spent on wrong things, that there is no priority, that everything is managed centrally from the centre of the Croatian centralised state, that we needed reforms in health and that we did not get them and that we do not have them in Croatia unfortunately, Mr. Reiner has no political responsibility. The minister acts as if it's not his concern, as if everything is fine, the best functioning and he technically determines what kind of health care will be. So he's not a mover minister, he has to implement reforms, he has to put his trust in Croatian citizens, and he has to direct the indicators in a way that makes them better than they were yesterday. I said a moment ago, replicating Mr. Ljubic by indexes our health care has swallowed 19 seats in 5 years. 2013 36th World Place, 2018. 55th place in the world. Is that something he's saying? Croatian healthcare is among the five worst in the EU. 5th worst in the EU, 77 and a half years of average living Croatian citizens. It's three years higher in the EU. Well, it's not all genetics, Mr. Ljubic. So now we're going to hear here from HDZ that genetics is to blame that we have a greater mortality and a much worse solution to the problem of cardiovascular diseases, etc. So, for HDZ, it's all genetics. I guess there's something about organization and priorities and prevention. Why nothing was done in prevention, why are you talking now, and Mr. Ljubic also pointed out that we have the most overweight people in Europe, why people are more than average smokers in the EU than they are in the EU. Is it also the Minister of Health that he tries to change his activities and habits that rule in our society. By the logic of the HDZ whatever happens, we go in the line as the current carries on, the minister can be anyone, Mr. Bukarica can be the health minister. According to the logic that HDZ sets things up, Mr. Bukarica would be no worse minister, suggest him for the next term.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97494	.../Bukarica Invader: What is my fault?...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97495	It's not your fault. I'm just saying logic. I'm sorry. So anyone can be a minister that way. We must have responsibility, we must give citizens minimum security that what they pay, after all to spend, reform in the best possible way. Well, since that's not the case, it would be logical without seeing how the minister felt subjectively, to take responsibility and admit, two years have passed, the situation isn't better, no one's saying it's better. Give one person other than the HDZ people who here by default have to defend the minister and who they write I said, the ingredients in the '80s, the other Tito that those who do it for what they have to do, are the only ones in Croatia who will say that, the situation is better than it was. And let us put aside these tragic events that have unfortunately happened, and who knows how many such tragic events we are not even aware of, and they also happened in this period because of the failures that occurred in the health system, it may not be all wrong and it is certainly not the minister's fault, but it is responsible as the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, if there were political responsibilities in Croatia, we would not be having this debate at all. We would raise all hands, and Mr. Bačić and Mr. Ljubic and Mr. Celic would all raise their hands and support what's logical, if things don't go, if things don't go the way they're supposed to happen, they should be changed. And that eventually comes down as Prime Minister Plenkovic initially said, to measuring forces. As far as anyone has more, the voice less, the destabilization of the government, that is the most general phrase, when you want to change something in the government, then it's an attack on Prime Minister Plenkovic, we tear down HDZ, no argument is accepted because it's all against HDZ as it is now, say, Mr Millian Brkic changed the story that it's no longer within the party but now the HDZ is being attacked through it and the whole of Croatia sees that it's essentially an internal account, within the HDZ, and it's clear as a day and by the statements of HDZ officials, it's about using and intelligence communities and who knows what we don't, which our citizens unfortunately have to look at and lose confidence in the institutions. Finally, I would say a few more data that are also verifiable and accurate, that healthcare debts have grown, that Croatia is dissipating unfortunately, and that is the minister's responsibility, and that is, in the budget we have failed to win for more money for some of the things that we should do in Croatia, so in Croatia it's a seven-and-a-half, 7.4% of the health care GDP, on average in Europe is about 10%. So that also shows that health care is not the priority of this government. I wish we didn't talk about this at all, if Minister Kujundzic wasn't the person we're looking for today to dissipate the god of what it would mean then that in Croatia, healthcare works at least something better than what the generally bad government is doing. But in this poor government, unfortunately, this sector is recognised as the weakest, as one who is troublesome and as one who needs to change and I say, they have escalated some things but they are not, they may have hurt the trigger for this request but they are not the one and only reason why we are looking for impeachment and are not the only ones, they may be the only ones we have seen because they happened unfortunately in front of the eyes of the public and the great tragedy that the whole of Croatia witnessed. Minister, this isn't a personal story, this isn't an attack on HDZ, this is simply something we think we should do, in health care should at this point shock therapy and the shock therapy at this point is that you're resigning and the health minister is choosing a friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97496	Thank you very much. We have three replicas first of the respected representative of Sladoliev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97497	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Maras, I don't know if you've noticed one fact that one coalition partner today didn't participate at all in the debate, so I guess they're dealing with requalifications, so it's symptomatic that one of the most important coalition partners isn't defending their minister because it's a common government, how do you comment on that fact?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97498	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97499	And I can comment on that in two ways. One thing is that they're probably in fear of what the vast majority of the public watching us today thinks it would be right for this request to be supported and the other thing is that they're not interested in it at all, they're focused just on how to switch from the divisor to the tablet. It's the only thing they're interested in, and it's probably what I'm thinking most of all, how to jump off the tablet divisor, if they hadn't gotten the Secretary of Defense, because then they'd think about how to switch from divisor to rockets. They've proven to be quite effective here but they're moving very quickly, just give them the resistor and they'll find their own space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97500	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97501	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you mentioned the citizens' trust, and therefore I ask myself and you how citizens will trust Minister Kujundzic when in fact what we see in both the media and everywhere on the portals of words and what he deals with is the most marked word penalization. So, the minister would penalize those who don't go into preventive checks, the minister would now penalize those who smoke, who drink alcohol. That might not have been so bad if he had done something good, if he had arranged the system, if that system had turned to the quality of people's lives, and it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97502	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97503	Thank you very much. Well, one part I'll agree with you, but I'm inclined to do it especially because that data shows that something needs to be changed in that part and that's part of the reform, and no matter how much people don't like to hear social habits should change, and there's the minister's responsibility to suggest some things, but I believe that's the least reason for our people's dissatisfaction. That it's even 1% dissatisfaction with how health looks because we don't have adequate emergency teams because people don't feel safe because money is spent on things that aren't priorities. So in that part I wouldn't blame him too much if he tried to change some bad habits in society, but I agree with you that priorities that should be focused on a more efficient system You should do it first. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97504	The next replica of the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97505	So, I didn't say that genetics is the only one who knows the health and length of life and the length of a healthy life, but it is certainly very, very important. This is what I said in the context of health and life-longness only depends only on the quality of the health system, and most of all on the social situation, living conditions, lifestyle, genetics and everything else, and I supported it with some facts. But when we talk about the indicator of the health system, I will repeat some, so based on.../incomprehensible/... index, so according to these six indicators and their aggregated results, Croatia is still above, so 12 countries of the European Union. So when we talk about indicators of the health system not about this life span indicator, this one and we talk about Minister Kujundzic today in the context of indicators and quality of the health system, not quality of health. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97506	Next that.../incomprehensible... excuse me, the answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97507	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubic. I said we can look at each other's indexes, the thing is what you're looking at and how you're looking at, but I can't accept that the Croats aren't very happy because they've been hit by this genetic, genetic problem that here's a very Croatian people living three years less than the average man of the European Union. Why us? Well, it can't be the only reason, so I guess if genetics is a small part of us then it's probably both in Germany and in Sweden and in Denmark and Switzerland. So it has nothing to do with genetics, it has to do with the system. There's genetics similar or slightly oscillating everywhere, but the system is different. Our system tells our citizens that they will live three years less than the average European citizens live.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97508	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Orepic, he is not, he is losing his right, so he will speak to individual debates, respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You are absolutely right because there are professional studies, scientific studies published in relevant journals where it is clearly proven that the length of life span is closely related to the availability of healthcare, to the number of doctors, to the availability of innovative medicines, to the availability of medicines at all, and Croatia does not stand well with the European average we are below average, but what is tragic in these three years is the expected life expectancy in Croatia. Therefore, I am an indicator that something is not good, and it certainly plays a role in the health system. And what I said yesterday, here I will repeat again, in Croatia on the basis of scientific data again when you retire at 65 years of expected quality of life, quality health is approximately 5 years, while in the European Union it is 10 years. All this data is that in Croatia our chances of living healthy and quality are below the average of Europe. Also, if you suffer from some chronic non-infectious disease in Croatia, the chance that you will experience a longer life span compared to the same man in Austria is much less. Therefore, these data suggest that the health care system in Croatia is not good and that it is the minister's task to promote it. He hasn't done it in two years. So this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016 mandate programme. On page 27, 2020, on page 27, the healthcare system must ensure the full health security of all citizens and be a source of health and productivity. The government will build a modern and financially sustainable health system that provides citizens with health care, ensuring quality for all available healthcare throughout Croatia. It's not done. I will not list everything I will list just the first item in which it says: Government policy will be focused on meeting the following specific objectives: removing the list of waitings for prompt checks, and limiting waiting time to maximum, well listen, for maximum 6 months for those whose searches or procedures are not urgent. Here I have an appointment for a gentleman from Rijeka, Thursday, so he was ordered on 27 June 2018 to review the magnetic resonance, Thursday 28, January 2021, does something need to be added to this? Well, I wouldn't give him that appointment, I'd say I'll do it later. So here they are screaming for six months, and here the gentleman was ordered in the 6th month 2018 in 2021. Well, that's proof of credibility, that's proof that Mr. Kujundzic is doing his job in a very good way. There are talk of some new donations, more resources for health care but here, we discover Marić's ultimatum Kujundzic, you will get more money from contributions but settle your health debts. How's he gonna solve them? Did we get one answer today as the Department of Health intends to introduce cost control into health care? No, Mr. Kujundzic has no idea. Therefore, I thank the citizens who have been following us for almost 9 hours, phone messages, text messages, phone calls show that today we showed Croatian citizens that the HDZ government is not credible because all health promises have failed. And the citizens thank us for allowing them today in the assembly to show to what extent this minister is incapable of running a health system. I hope that will be enough reason for Mr Kujundzic to return to his job, to work in a hospital that works quality and thus contribute to reducing the waiting list in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97510	The Honorable representative Branimir Bunjac will now speak finally on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97511	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have tried to measure the data available to everyone, starting with the programme crediblely, from statistics on government work, on the work of the minister, on the number of patients, on some reports of independent bodies, etc., We got insults, pride, arrogance, replacement thesis, we heard the Prime Minister talking like we were from the Living Wall afraid of something, so we're crying, so we're running away, it's just not true, if someone was running, say, during the Homeland War, it was just the Prime Minister and his minister. [[You don't understand the word...]] We know where we were, we were on the front line of the battlefield and we weren't afraid, we weren't making it up, I could make it up just so I couldn't see it, that I had these problems, that I didn't get out of it, so it's just nonsense, that primitiveism that comes out of it simply because they don't know how to offer arguments, which you can't tell the truth, which you don't know, so thoughtfully, overly explain the results of your work. On the other hand, I believe that this debate has led the public to hear what the arguments for the replacement of Minister Kujundzic are. After all, every man can see from his personal experience, this, what is the service in Croatian health care? You all know that if you don't have money, if you're not a member of the HDZ or you don't have any other political-family relationship that you're actually going to be for some ordinary services like diagnostic reviews of this waiting literally for years not to list now, magnetic resonance, CT, visit to dentist, etc., etc. Simple Croatian healthcare has quite enough money in the budget and it is privileged to mean compared to other ministries. The Ministry of Health has indeed huge resources at its disposal, at the very top of the EU we are at the disposal of health care, there are a whole series of countries where there is less than in Croatia, this, and here is what we have, so we have not only a bad service but we have an exodus of doctors from the Republic of Croatia. More than 2,000 doctors have left the country, among them most often those who are the most qualified, specialists, so people who have perspective, who are in other countries and how welcome they are while in their country they have been pushed to the margin for some prozaic reasons such as the lack of a party card or a personal friendship with Mr. Minister. Therefore, what I mean is that there will be no change in this society, there will be no so much desire for justice for all Croatian citizens, the application of the law for all equal, for all as long as such ministers are in their positions. Therefore, we remain firm with the request for a shift, we hope that the shift will take place, if it does not come, we will continue the fight, so the democratic struggle that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, the Government of the Act, the Government of Farce, the Government of the Smoke Curtains, the purchase of time and the act of this goes away from the Croatian political scene and never return to it as well as the Governments of their predecessors, and Ivo Sanader, Tihomir Oreskovic, and this one who was still prime minister, I do not know Karamarko was the president of the HDZ, etc. So, there's so much of us. Thank you very much for your patience. Thank you very much for understanding. I'll see you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97512	Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta-Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97513	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The impeachment was initiated among others to institutionally get the government's response as they see the state of health? We received confirmation that they themselves admitted in the end that they did not commit themselves to the sector because how else do you explain the level of future used in their health status letter? There is not even a sector of education that has been promising curriculative reform for years, because it will be, at all times, in the plan. That's the government's memo we got this time for an assessment of the state of health they see, we'll see, it's planned. I've compared the Prime Minister to the modern Makiavelli today, but this is how when you look at the memo they sent, probably the roots go to the grandmother of Vanga or Nostradamus. We had a clear list of the specific needs of citizens and inactions for the last two years in health care. We only got promises from the government in return. I think some of you here were kids, some of you weren't even there when they promised the things they promised in that memo. I mean, if we opened the 1977 Vecernjak archives to see some of those projects that we had the opportunity to witness in a letter from the government. That's why someone needs to take responsibility. Looking at today's Prime Minister speaking to parliamentary deputies, then also to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it might be better to make his impeachment because the way he is boasting, arrogant and insulting people is definitely not appropriate, not for this home, and it is also not what citizens have rewarded him for trusting him. Al Minister Kujundzic took over the portfolio and took responsibility. The motion to call off is the reason for everything that hasn't been done in health care and it has nothing to do with personal level. We heard promises again today. Now, perhaps the Prime Minister will prove tomorrow's trade coalition. You ministers might get a second chance tomorrow. If that's the case, I hope you'll use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97514	Thank you very much. Minister Milan Kujundzic will now speak on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97515	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you primarily for staying all afternoon and evening, and I would also like to thank all those 31 who have signed, because they have actually opened the space to talk here in the Assembly about health care, about the problems, about what should be changed and what has been done. And if you listened carefully, then you saw that many things were done. The truth of the will, looking at you now all in the eye, is easy to talk about who knows, I have no problems with the people of the SDP or other parties or non-party people who know, who understand, it's easy to talk to them, and they're not here and they're not chasing, and those who don't know a bit about health, about medicine and who have no place to go back. So, I personally said several times, if I'm not the minister of no Croatian hospital, there's no world hospital I literally can't go to tomorrow. Where will you go if you're not in the Parliament? So let's talk truth. That's what my people need to hear, and why are you getting paid? And secondly, why do you use falsehoods and don't know, and make arrangements, you say contradictions, you represent one another, you represent one another. Some say there's extra money. Therefore, money in the healthcare system in Croatia is primarily spent on medicines and on medical staff salaries, almost 100%. And you're advocating on one side of the matter are doctors and nurses. And what do we reduce or not pay them? You represent patients who should be given medicines and the latest ones, which we do, including spinraza. Do you have any idea how many drugs are expensive in the world every year? And we want to give everyone at twelve and next year to any of these latest medicines. And in the end, if you want some literature quotes. So some of you know what Lancet is, most of you don't know. The world's oldest and most respected journal in medicine. Croatian medicine ranks among the 15 best in the world. And this is primarily due to the one you attacked, primarily these three parliamentary deputies when they took advantage of the tragedy in Zapresic. So, thanks to the sacrifice, knowledge, the efforts of doctors and sisters and others. And you in your own way, those who earn honor and honesty and who can be moved from the hospital to the hospital, from the office to the office, not those who have nowhere to go, but who can move here to the Parliament. So if you think I'm going to tell you pretty, I'm not a populist. So thank you so much for opening this topic. Thank you very much for reopening the topic, I am waiting for you again because I will talk to you about my Croatian people, about my patients, and you gentlemen see a little and learn a little, what you did, what results you have, where you can go and how much pay you get if you give up from here. So the Croats need the truth. The Croats need honest spending of money, money suitable for what they give, which is what someone earns, not telling stories, your stories are enough. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97516	Thank you. We have this breach of the Rules of Procedure first. What? And I didn't see it, I saw the replica, I didn't see it, okay, okay. Well, then you're the first. What do you think the Rules of Procedure was hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97517	Thank you very much. It's injured 238, this is an unprecedented aggression we've seen here. I'm also a little concerned that you, both aggressively and verbally and non-verbally, are even more nervous and insulting in this way to the representatives. What do you care who goes back to where, is that your job? And what will anyone do? It's yours to work in the health system, and you don't do it. You worry about that, you let whoever comes back. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] If it's so you can go back wherever you want, then come back tomorrow. Why don't you come back tomorrow? Well, that's what we want. But give us protection a colleague came for the pay phone and there's...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97518	.../Intruder: colleague Maras./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97519	...it's all non-verbal, aggressive towards us. Did you notice that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97520	... /Intruder: Comrade Maras, please, I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and you have now exceeded 30 seconds of your time. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97521	...so you're an academic and a doctor, warn your colleague that a doctor shouldn't behave at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97522	.../Intruder: Comrade Maras, what I must now at the end of these 9-10 hours I give you a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97523	...I didn't cause it, it was Mr. Secretary who caused...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97524	Oh, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97525	...that's what Mr. Minister caused you to react...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97526	.../Intruder: I'm giving you a good warning, please sit down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97527	...why you're giving me a warning, instead of stopping him, you're giving me a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97528	Col. Petrov also raised a breach of the rules of procedure in which she, the injured Rules of Procedure, is. [[/Intruder: Because you're polarizing with me, and you have nothing to do with me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97529	.../incomprehensible/... Article 238, and I believe that Minister Kujundzic is at the very moment when he thought that everything was absolutely over and that his closing word showed at the end the right person but the ironing that Mr Kujundzic was showing at the moment, and probably stems from that force of liquefaction from that trade coalition and the shame that gives him the background that he can expect tomorrow 76 hands But I'll only ask one thing, Minister, is that the truth you call [[Intruder: Thank you.]] for Croatian people [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because the shame in which you participated and if you are already calling for the truth [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] then the Croatian Government should have spoken the truth when it assessed the state of health at the time you were coming to the Parliament. [[Employer: colleague Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97530	Uh, slow down, slow down, calm down, slow down. I'm a colleague, and I'm sorry. A colleague, Jovanovic, a violation of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97531	Thank you. Therefore, it is an incredible dose of aggression and boastfulness of the minister who, in the final word, instead of referring to the debates of insults, defames parliamentary representatives and what I would remind him of, Mr. Minister, you are the minister of all Croatian citizens, not only Croats not only of Croatian children and not only of the Croatian peoples that you have repeatedly repeated today. You are the minister of all Croatian citizens regardless of their nationality and you discriminate against Croatian citizens with your actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97532	Thank you. I'm a good judge that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, and now we have a respected representative, Maria Alfirev, you've been spinning like a sound, so I didn't know. All right, here's a replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97533	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, now you will have the opportunity to answer why you act so embarrassingly in the Croatian Parliament, you are waiting for representatives, you are saying you are humiliating people here, it speaks of you as a minister and as a man, you have no right to do so. Every one of us has a life of his own, and he's doing something or he's going to work. You're being legitimateized by what you're doing right now, and that's the Minister of Health. The vast majority of people in Croatia think you're doing this job badly. And I want you what your colleague Jovanovic wants you to do, go where people think you're doing very well, go back to the hospital, that's where you can prove where you were successful. You're a failure here, that's the problem, and when you look me in the eye, don't show that dose of aggression. I'm not your enemy, I represent citizens here who are not satisfied with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97534	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97535	.../incomprehensible/... people who don't know how to diagnose are playing with diagnosis, so aggression, neurosis is a diagnosis. So, also Mr. Jovanovic has diagnosed no idea, so I'm just adjusting the frequency which is normal, sociology biology I adjusted the frequency to you to understand me, is actually what's normal in electronics in biology, that the frequency has to be adjusted to make you understand that, I just adjusted the frequency. And now you're restless, you're restless...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97536	Please don't, don't throw it out of the bench. It's late nights. We're not gonna lift it now. Comrade Maras, calm down. Don't throw it out of my bench. Don't get my buddy Maras from the bench, I repeat! Dear Representative Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97537	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, academics, colleagues, professors, why don't you remind the minister who persistently insults you. He persistently insults the parliamentary deputies, especially us fellow doctors, so now he tells me I have no idea, based on what. What does he know about what I'm doing? So we can listen to the phonogram [[No, no, no, sorry, that's not true. He...]] He told me I had no idea, so Mr. Kujundzic of the campaign insults continued doctors. [[We can, no, no. He claimed what he was told, sorry, I listened well.]] He's already been warned about this and he'll get it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97538	Thank you. I'm very good at estimating that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, and I think it would be a good idea to stop these injuries to the Business, come on, you don't think, do you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, in 238, you missed the Minister's warning again. He said here that I wasn't even able to understand what he was saying, but he had to adjust the frequency to make me understand it. Do you see how rude, humiliating it is for MPs, and you keep your mouth shut like you're a sphinx here, you haven't said anything to him, but when I say I want to make a statement to the Rules of Procedure, I throw something away. Then you tell me you're yelling at me, and so on. [[You've long gone beyond your time.]] I ask you to protect your colleagues [[I'm not yelling at anyone.]] Protect us from what and how the minister behaves. [[I'm not yelling at anyone, and you've exceeded your time significantly.]] As he behaves in health care, that's how he behaves now and here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97540	Uh, this is how you'd actually deserve a warning, but I won't give it to you. Anyway, let's move on in a more serious, more serious way. This one, at least, so, uh, now we're going to ask fair representative Alfirev to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97541	Thank you, my dear. Vice President, however, I can't help but repeat, Ministers shame you either, indeed. Because you insulted, you insulted, and it's possible you'll offend again. You've insulted your colleagues, you're saying we don't know anything, that we're not educated, that we don't know the system. But Minister, we can get over it, but the citizens don't believe you, the doctors don't trust you, the doctors aren't happy, you didn't provide them with a fair system, you don't actually pay them the way you should, and what you do, you do to write letters to the Justice Department. You're a doctor, and you haven't arranged the system. You didn't do anything to take away the island your government took away the ambulance, to return it to. [[Thank you very much.]] And more mass of it [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97542	Minister Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97543	Look, I'm sorry if you didn't understand, I just said, not in any way, God forbid I would insult someone, I just said, so, in your rhetoric I quoted what any of you said, you were making a diagnosis, I wrote here when Mr. Jovanovic said there was no idea about me, I just adjusted the way you communicate with me, I'm telling you the same way, and now you are, now you're where you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97544	Now, on the final name of the promoter, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97545	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would not really answer, but I must, because in this final address, Minister Kujundzic has essentially shown the real reason why we should replace him. It was, uh, exposed in the end. Namely, he showed rage. For this assembly speaker, he showed anger, which he had to participate in the debate, and he directed that anger towards opposition. And I'd like to warn him in fact that a man who shows anger in public is sending a message that he's not capable of controlling himself. And a man who is unable to control himself certainly cannot control any Ministry or run a state. And that knows, here you have Mr. Chelić, ask him, he's into psychiatry, this, what they do, what kind of people are, so this is how they react in public. And you think you're some size, that you have somewhere to go back. You do because you have a party card in your pocket. That's why you've got somewhere to go back. And you thought you could be something without it, but you saw that you couldn't. You set up some Croatian dawn, you wanted to be president of the state, but one young man of only 24 years got three times as many votes as you, and he has 100 times less money than you and all that. And that's where you clearly saw that you don't actually have that capacity. You're without HDZ, this one, simple, very modest reach, so you're better off back to that party. They were, uh, so generous to take you back and this one, but now they're holding you in their hands, you know. And you know that without them, you're nothing, at least in political life. Well, that's what I wanted to tell you about the end, and now, if you want, come back here and yell as much as you want, that's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97546	He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97547	Like this. For the sake of the Croatian public, I know you gave me warnings and I have no right to say this, but there is not only Milan Kujundzic is not only Milan Kujundzic's HDZ membership card, it is part of the deeper structures of the so-called Deep countries [[You have no right to speak at all.]] and conspired with Ivica Todorovic, Rohatinski in political... [[Why are you doing this?]] It's recognised at the Committee and let it be known and let it end this impeachment, it's part of the deeper structures of this state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[And why do you do that, you know that your word has been taken from you.]] [[What did you need?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97548	Great, so everyone here can say whatever they want, play whatever they want, so it's ugly. It's rude, it's ugly, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I know everything. I said you had no right to speak until the end of the day, so you're still talking. The people are watching you, I guess, but someone's watching, so it's not just that they admire. At least I hope the Croatian people can see some things right. Here you go, Comrade Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97549	Dear Chairman, I would hold to your words that the rules are even and that exactly as you have now said, the President of the Parliament today warned the Prime Minister when he insulted the MPs by calling them mice, and a few days before that to the hives. What I went to refer to as a replica to Mr. Bunjec, I am really interested in what Mr. Bunjac thinks today after all we have witnessed in the last five minutes was the truth, the foundation on which Mr. Kujundzic had just been called in his last address. [[Intruder: But you have answered the line.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97550	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97551	There are moments and there are moments when a man shows his healthy face. That's it, that moment of final address. So one evilness, one vengefulness, one so, narcissism, the opinion itself that it's worth more than other people. It's who in that story in the Strebor Woods, when finally that daughter-in-law shows her tongue real and then finally everyone realizes exactly what it's about. So, I'm sorry that it came to this excess, but it started with the Excess, so the excess is over, and basically what follows us further is even more regrettable, which is that if Minister Kujundzic is voted on, he will continue his work in health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97552	Now you see how ugly it is when you compare someone with an animal, right? With a snake, you just said it and it's very ugly, but anyway I'm going to conclude the debate now, we will of course vote on it when the conditions are obtained. We will continue work tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the proposal of the Wine Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 430. I wish you all a good night. Session adjourned at 22.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-11-0.u97553	The proposal to launch a trust issue with Milan Kujundzic, the minister of health in the government of the Republic of Croatia, is proposing 31 MPs and representatives. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the decision to show no confidence to a member of the government require a half-dozen majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. I am voting in favour of the decision to show no confidence in Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. The result of the vote is the following, voted 130 MPs and MPs, 53 were in favour, 77 were against, 0 abstentions. So, I find that no decision has been taken to show no confidence in Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
