ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91731	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I suggest we start with our work and as I announced yesterday the first point will be - The final draft law on amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, second reading, P.Z. No. 334. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I suppose, on behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation will be given by the respected Minister of Science, the education of Blaženka Divjak, whom I welcome and call for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91732	Good morning, I thank Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to explain this final proposal to amend and supplement the law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. First of all, a successful national education system must give equal opportunities to all students and what is modern teaching science, the methodology found that learning must be such and teaching must be such that the student is focused, at the heart of the teaching process. Which means that you should also encourage the quality of teaching and quality of working with students in a way that raises the quality of initial education of teachers, teachers, teachers. This is a great responsibility for colleges, higher schools that educate teachers, teachers, teachers, and then to provide teachers with the opportunity to continue their training, i.e. to reward the best, to also consider it. These are the three qualities that are recognized and which we really must cultivate. Furthermore, we need to have transparent procedures for hiring teachers and teachers and how? Based on their competences, as well as the selection of directors must be such that it is transparent, that there are other basic criteria and additional criteria and that procedures are such that each school can be very clear in its own, based on its statute to determine how the Director will be chosen. There must also be a system to equip and build schools and infrastructure in schools, and that is what we are also working on, but all that I have listed must be such that it respects the autonomy of the school. This final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools contains improvements according to all of these points that characterize a quality education system. Allow me a few highlights from the very beginning regarding the changes that have caused and a lot of debates and misunderstandings, and I will also tell some of them the opportunity for politics and on topics in which they have not been particularly entrenched in the problem. We must take advantage of the opportunity to introduce order into the system, and the introduction of order in Croatia is never easy, nor popular. And we must ensure equal rights based on equal terms and on the basis of equal competences. I will first look back on one topic that has caused a lot of debates in the public, so I will explain it already in this opening work, and then I will look back on some more issues where we have changed certain provisions between the first and second readings based on the debate right here in the Croatian Parliament, and finally I will go through the most important provisions in the amendments and additions of the law. So, based on comments and discussions in the Assembly regarding the competences and qualifications of teachers of the teaching in the OSH, we have amended Article 105 of the Law where we have clearly recognised who can work as the teacher in the OSH, and most of the teachers in question working from the fifth to eighth grade in the OSH. So the debate that is now quite current, I think there are a lot of shortcomings because they don't deal with basic and important arguments, facts and not knowing the matter well, so I will if you let me explain what it's really about. So when we talk about the course in question, it means the upper classes of elementary school, where our current law requires teachers, teachers who have graduated from teaching schools. For example. The Faculty of Natural Mathematics, before the Bologna, it was a professor of mathematics, after the bologna means a master's degree in mathematics or the Faculty of Philosophy of Croatian Language, if spoken of in Croatian language or master's of Croatian language education. So that's the first choice. Of course, for some deficiting professions like that. Mathematics, a foreign language of particular English or information is allowed to be performed by teachers who have previously acquired a qualification at the appropriate university, this appropriate university could again be for these two examples or the Faculty of Philosophy or the Faculty of Natural Sciences as a dip.ing. Math or research mathematics in today's system. And another year of 55 ECTS pedagogical, psychological, methodical competences. So that's the next category. And after that, let's recognize for the first time, for the first time in the law, we recognize teachers of class classes who graduated from the Faculty of Teachers but had reinforcements for some subject. But let's not forget it's class teachers. So to teachers who should be taught by law in the first four years when one teacher, one teacher teaches all these subjects we talked about. Now, over 20 years, unfortunately, the Faculty of Teachers has, without being recognised, introduced different modules and I would say to a small door, introduce a system to study certain subjects as part of a teacher's study, and that when someone graduates from class class, it is added to it, meaning the teacher of class classes with some enhanced program from the course, from some class. After the bologna, therefore, after the change that was made in 2003 also in integrated studies, university studies where teachers for classrooms are educated perform modules, less modules for teaching in question. This is not even seen in the title because when a person completes such a study, his name is Master of Primary Education. Primary education, so he's qualified for class education. Of course, over the years in different ways, over 20 years, class teachers have entered the classes as teachers in several primary school classes such as primary school teachers, so again teachers who should work for the first four years in the course in question. We appreciate that, so we take that into account and say, so they can still report to competitions, but they can't have the same priority on the way in, given that their competences are not comparable to the competences of these first two groups that I pointed out. Because if, for example, you're looking at how many math or information subjects someone has at the Teacher's Study when they're educated as a class teacher with an enhanced class it's 3 to 6 times less than when someone graduates from a college for, meaning that they qualify for the class course or, for example, dip. Plus one year of pedagogical competence. So for the first time, we have recognized, for the first time, that teachers of class classes with an enhanced class can work and can report to competitions for the course in question. We can't forget that. So far, it's been a gray zone. We have definitely also recognised that the competences, i.e. the number of professions they have listened to in their initial education and more than in these first two categories, thus now they cannot have priority in employment, although it is a realistic possibility that in the deficit professions such as mathematics, information or English, they can now have a job to do according to these changes and additions and we are allowing this law to do so. Also, all those who are now in our schools and teach mathematics, information, English or some other subject based on their initial education not for the classes in question but for the class teacher with enhanced competences for one subject, they will continue to work without a problem and their status is not at all questioned. And I'm really asking everyone here who's arguing that they're considering it, there's no retrograde application of certain provisions, and this situation allows us to really exercise all their rights by virtue of competence, no one will lose their jobs, and yet we arrange that in the future when they report to work and class teachers to lecture on the basis of enhanced classes, some classy subject that they can do so on the basis of the law. So far, it's been a gray zone. I'm sorry that after 20 years, we're just dealing with it now and we have a situation, we have a situation that has a lot of misunderstandings, false interpretations, pulsism, politics on the subject that should be such that we all understand first and foremost what it is about, we understand competences and we see that we are now first teachers of class classes who work as teachers to ensure that they continue to do so and that in law as such they are recognized, so no one will get fired. Secondly, in the deficit professions, they have a very good chance of hiring both in class, which is their basic qualification, and in the case-law, and thus to regulate their system of progress. Let's not forget that at this point, if you have a class teacher who teaches math for example, she's taking an expert exam from mathematics, but from class classes and we're going to base these amendments and additions to the law, provide them with equal rights and equal opportunities to advance and pass a professional exam from classes that teach and not from classes, I mean not from class classes where they don't work. And I ask that we take these arguments into account and that in this way, when we discuss, we do not spread false news, so the arguments must be based on what is in the study programmes and on what is now in the law and I assure you that we are introducing order and that in this way we provide class teachers with classes to those who, even though they are classy, hand over an individual subject in higher classes, that they do it and give it without any problems and edit the system of reporting to competitions to identify who has a priority in the future. Here I had a need to explain at first because I think there's a lot of misunderstandings and manipulations and politics on the subject that should encourage us to think and think first of all about that 20 years this topic is under the table and that it didn't concern anyone and now we're worried about when we finally edit it, we put it into law, and we give people the chance that when they work, they can find where their job and their qualification in the law is recognised what hasn't been the case so far. As for the other objectives that we have in the law, I will go through a few of the most important changes, then changes in relation to first reading and, as I said, very quickly through the very items in the law and the articles themselves. So the objectives of these changes are, above all, to enable the adoption of curriculative documents related to the curricular reform of the education and education systems. Then that's, so that's one very important segment that we're going to explain. Secondly, to enable the central state to provide and implement projects related to school construction and also reconstruction of schools and infrastructures in schools in two ways. First, to recognise that, if there is a government programme and secure resources in the state budget, public private partnership can be accessed in cooperation with other partners. Others, that in school institutions, means schools that are no longer safe for students and teachers, to allow the state to intervene directly and solve problems. Here I will especially remind you of the problem of the OS Nikola Andric in Vukovar which has been as it has been for years and the problem has not been solved. We will ensure by this law that such a school, by means of funds that are already in the state budget and based on the amendment of this provision in the Law on Education and Education, is regulated in the next year and that is a very important message. It is not the only such school, however, but in this budget we have provided the funds as we have provided for Vladimir Nazor's school in Pribislavac. Then we introduced a more transparent process of school employment and that is why for teachers and for the selection of directors because so far you have practically not had a procedure, so so far it is based on one discretionary decision rather than on the basis that you have the prescribed rule that candidates should be valued and that it is based on a transparent decision on candidates. It's a similar situation with the selection of directors, so I'll explain it specifically through the article. We also made sure that those employees of schools working on EU projects have the right to increase wages of 30% during their work on EU projects, of course in part-time, where they work on EU projects, clearly provided that these EU projects provide funds for such, knew how to pay for work, and thus we do not burden the state budget and we reward those who enable us to withdraw funds and which enable us to base it and equip schools. So these were perhaps the four most important changes that were already in the first reading, now let me just briefly go through which differences are compared to the first reading now in the second reading. Compared to the first reading, the draft has been amended in a way that some of the comments that were in the debate that I thank you all for. First of all, the principle of education and education under regular number 9 has been complemented in a way that clearly states that the educational values of paragraph 9, in principles, relationships and calls for article 4 to point 3., which reads that it is necessary to raise and educate students in accordance with general, cultural and civilizational values, human rights and children's rights, train them to live in a multicultural world for respect of diversity and tolerance, and for active and responsible participation in the democratic development of society, so that this provision of which there has been a lot of debate is now clarified as regards educational values. And it is also a reserved constitutional right to do so in accordance with the right of parents to decide independently on child rearing, which means that the parent should be informed and, if the deviation from the values I have just read is, of course, the right to react in this regard, but the values here are undeniable. It's also held this point 10th which, I'm going to say, is a very beautiful, almost poetic way for everyone to have the right to education. And then he says: children have the right to access information or content based on modern scientific and educational standards important for the full and coherent development of their personality, which are transmitted in an objective, critical and pluralistic way, and the task of the public school system to be neutral and balanced, and to enable the child to exercise that right. These principles were consistently implemented throughout the law. As for further changes compared to first reading, I have already pointed out one. On the basis of the observations stemming from the parliamentary debate, it is clearly defined under which conditions the teaching officer’s work in primary school may be performed by a person who has completed a four-year undergraduate course, means a teaching course with an enhanced programme from an appropriate teaching course or now an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study of primary education with a module to carry out the teaching of the relevant teaching course. That's what I've explained now. We recognize the role in the Law, but we also set priorities and thus do not endanger anyone's workplace and current labour rights. Comments have also been accepted without which to allow school directors to increase salaries during work on EU projects. We didn't have that in our first reading, but the debate was actually such that it went in the direction that this should allow for this increase for directors. Furthermore, the selection procedure of the director, which has already been prescribed, and I would say in this first draft, means in the first reading, it is now enough, is now simplified in a way that allows the selection process, not only to meet the conditions and discretionary choice, but also to define additional criteria for candidates for directors. And what we can also say is that, also on the basis of the remarks of the Ministry of Finance, Art has been changed. In 82nd of the existing Law, in a way that the amount of the prize to be awarded for the national graduation exams for certain categories, means not those who take the first time, but those who multiplely approach the state graduation exams for the same subject, thus establishing that this amount is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia’s decision and that it represents a dedicated income. As for going through the article itself, I will now pass quickly in this remaining time through the most important articles and their changes. I started to explain, so I'm gonna skip that part. I'll also skip all those changes that are technical. Of those articles I'd like to highlight, I'd like to point out an article. 4. where it is prescribed that a change of the network of school institutions is now simpler if the existing school institution is already in the network extending its activities, and now it no longer needs to go beyond the long-term procedure, but such an amendment to the implementation of the new programme is carried out by means of a decision made by the minister responsible for education, with the previous consent of the Minister of Finance. They have also been added to the regular activity, therefore to the school's activities and work with gifted students, which has not been recognised in this way so far. Furthermore, it is possible in exceptional cases to enroll a student more than twice in the school year if that reason is justified and if the minister's consent exists. It's mostly because of the disease. I am particularly emphasising the article. Article 9 10. because they are described here, there are provisions given regarding national curricula and the curricula concerned, and here we are. 9. additionally arranged or broken into items to make it clear which curriculative documents, to which curricular documents these all apply. Article 1 has not been changed, it is from the existing Law, but it recognises national curricula relating to certain levels and types of education and education according to the framework national curricula document described in the strategy. In our first reading, we called it a roof document, but it was quite a confusion in the debate, so we have now changed the terminology, so it writes an indicative national curricula document, which is a general document that describes everything from preschool education to primary and secondary education. They are also described meanings, as well as these individual frames that are not curriculas, such as the framework for the evaluation of achievements, frameworks for working with students with difficulties or frameworks for working with gifted students. In national curriculas, teaching subjects performed at a particular type or level of education, except in two special curriculas, is a curricula of a national curricula for professional or artistic education. But we still remember that because we were changing the Law on Professional Education, so we know that there's a national curricula for a professional something different. And all these national curricula and the framework national curricula document are made by the minister's decision. So that's an art. Nine. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 10. are much clearer described curricula of teaching subjects that then recognize what everything in a curricula should be as part of the meaning of such a curricula from the purpose and objectives of learning, the emphasis is on educational outcomes. Of course they must be accompanied by content because I repeat once again, what we said in the debate in the first reading, so each outcome consists of 3 parts. From the level that we are talking about, it's very important to point out, for example, that someone can describe or calculate something or design something, they're completely different levels. The second part relating to the content to which it applies. Whether to design an information system or, therefore, an energy plant, these are different content and the third part that we often leave out, which is an important part, that is how it will be evaluated, the way it is evaluated. Because, of course, you can't value design in a way that you can say that someone is describing something. He really has to do it some elaborate that then proves that he's capable of doing it succesively. And it's very important that it exists in the curicula. So a lot of these, in those parts, we haven't left any further plans and programs, they won't be brought anymore, but they're being done so we don't change them. Now I'm going to skip one piece of technical change and what we explained in the first reading, we've also introduced that consent for class departments, except for the state administration's office, but they have to get a preliminary opinion from the founders. Here we give the founders the opportunity to participate in the creation of what is important in enrolment, especially in enrolment in high school. The pedagogical measures are more clearly prescribed, and we have quite detailed them in real reading. The evaluations of work on EU projects are art. 99A means it's an art. 26th said to be behind the article. In 99th, he now adds this new one and perhaps only a few highlights, so if the basis of the EU project or the EU fund, a teacher, an accountant, and also a director, wants to work, and there is a possibility and they are justified, so there are funds, and he wants to work on the project, a special contract can be concluded with him, which says in what part of the working time he will work on the EU project. If it's a 50% teacher, then there's a 50% lower norm and all the other obligations that are based on it and on that 50% it has the right 30% to raise wages. And for these 50% of his classes, someone else can be hired. And there is no impact on the state budget since there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget. Now we also allow the principal, except that the decision for the principal is made by the school board, that's the first thing, and the second thing, can't be any part of the working time, but only 30% of the working time. These other details, I think we passed in our first reading. They have also improved the conditions for establishing a working relationship, we explained this a little bit in the introduction and we also said that each school should now adopt a rule on how to implement the employment process, and then consent to this is given by the Office of State Administration to such a rule. So far, there has been no such regulation and practically all of these processes have been such that they were based on a discretionary decision and a proposal from the school board director. In the organization, organised management of surpluses and deficits, we also have changes, in a way that can now involve directors who were more than 3 mandates, 3 or more terms of office. A rule is also prescribed, at the level of the country prescribed by the minister, that they are actually taken care of means of the process of establishing a list of records and handling. In the appointment of the principal we have a change, so the changes are in a way that so far the decisions of the school board have been made, now one is being made, but the most important changes relate to the fact that now that the director is appearing in the competition, the candidate for director, on those necessary conditions, must submit the work programme for the next term of office. And you can also value additional conditions, which allow then ranking. These additional conditions are knowledge of foreign language, basic digital skills and experience of project work. So these are additional conditions, not necessary, but based on them, additional points can be made. Now as this procedure goes, so the director is named based on the competition, which the school board is calling, he teaches all these materials and the added competences are being valued. So after determining the overall score achieved on the evaluation, based on what we've said, the school board determines the list of the 2 best-ranked candidates and delivers it to the teacher or teacher council, and then they evaluate both the work programme and give their opinion, so that the process is now much more transparent and better. I'm gonna stop here now, I think I've explained everything to the most important thing, and I thank you in advance for your reasoned debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91733	Thank you very much. If the rapporteur wishes, I'm sorry, we have a truly plentiful series of replicas, he is the first respected representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, right at the beginning you said that the most important changes to the law in this section that caused a lot of populist debates and unargumented debates, I would say there was no public debate. So I have a question for you, have you considered 3 readings, since you yourself said that in some way it was an unargumented debate, given that these were very important changes, that they happened again in mid-July when each time the changes to the law of education occurred, when teachers were on vacation and that we didn't actually have round tables, we didn't include stakeholders, teachers' universities, educators, didactics, and that exactly the way that they happened and the changes were the reason for such debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91735	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91736	Thank you very much. This is a regular procedure and we are doing everything in accordance with the regular procedure, this one article that we are now talking about, which actually goes in favor of class teachers, because I finally recognize them that I can work in the course in question. That was so far out of the law, they weren't recognized. That one item was actually placed on the basis of a debate in the assembly, based on a parliamentary debate that we are obliged to respond to. We are praying to answer in 2 ways, one way that we have regulated it, so that we have put together a list of priorities, and the other that we have said, because it was also a proposal from one of the MPs, you can read it from the debate, is to determine how much ECTS minimum should have for the teaching in question. If we had put 120 ECTS, then we would have actually done damage to all those who have an increased subject because they do not allow that condition. This is one solution, quality he recognizes, and he's not jeopardizing anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91737	Thank you for the next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91738	Thank you very much. Minister, you said in your first sentence the foundation of educational reform the same conditions for all students. By this law, these changes do not solve any question regarding students, the equality of students. In two-thirds of Croatian students do not have the same conditions as for example in Zagreb, they do not have free textbooks, and their bags in Croatia are heavy in OS on average 6.5 kg, and the most difficult textbooks are 10.9 kilograms measured. And that's why kids get scoliosis, disease. While in the European countries it is decided that only 10% of their weight can be student bags. You're not dealing with any important question about the student, except that you're deciding that the principal will be employed as well as so far in which political party they belong, where the founder is the owner, such as in my Split-Dalmatia County card is the only criterion to be head of school. As for the students, no letters about the students and their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91739	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91740	Well, here I am, may I not agree with you. Because in this law, we are laying the foundation for educational reform in this way where everyone is given equal approaches and ways of teaching and evaluation. I absolutely agree with you about the weight of school bags, that's why now since fall in experimental schools, experimental textbooks are such that they are easier, that there are digital materials and that we clearly prescribe that the student cannot be burdened with both unnecessary facts and unnecessary weight of the bag, that's the first thing. The second thing, we also recognize the need to equip schools, is what we did. For the first time in 10 years, we have systematic school equipment, throughout Croatia. Third thing, we also allow a country where schools are insecure for the work and life of students and teachers, and the central state can intervene, and the rest I don't get to answer, but here, I hope I'm at least something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91741	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91742	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. You said well that the student is at the heart of all the changes that must be made when it comes to legislation. Croatia must be a society of equal opportunities for all, and this can only be achieved by education. Today we know well that the degree that a child ends up in his education to doctoral studies depends entirely on where he comes from, from what family. That's why this legal framework must be fixed. What I regret is that you have changed a little bit for the framework national curricula, however, the framework of evaluation, the framework of work with gifts and difficulties has not changed which is not good. What I would suggest is that in view of these large discussions that have arisen about teachers with the increased teaching under consideration, at least through transitional provisions, you point out that this law will apply as of the school year, so that everyone who enrolls those studies knows what can possibly wait for them with such amended provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91743	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91744	Thank you. So as far as curriculative documents are concerned, I think they are clearly prescribed in Article 9 and Article 10, which amend Article 26, respectively, and Article 27. Look, the only thing there are generic names. We cannot prejudge that it will be called the name and last name of the Dona comma, but I assure you that it writes, because among other things it will be guidelines to encourage and adapt the experience of learning and evaluate achievements, these are frameworks, and the frameworks are not curriculas, and that they cite the principles of the educational process, learning and teaching, and the evaluation of reporting characteristic of each level, i.e. the type of education. So we also have frameworks, we have frameworks for evaluation and, of course, after how to adopt and what must be in curricula of teaching subjects. Here's how I think it's okay in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91745	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91746	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, as for the school boards themselves, he spoke here and a colleague about the influence of politics, I think that should be reduced in this regard. I'll try through the amendment now, after I've heard this and this exposure of yours give one amendment that would reduce the impact of politics. We all know in which way decisions are made and on the selection of directors and other things inside the school, there is definitely a need to increase the impact of the staff of the school itself, and when the colleagues here talk about the students, of course the students are first, but we all need to be aware, and primarily you do not have the right educational reforms without improving the position of teachers, teachers and teachers. It means I think your key task and it is the task of us all, without it there are no real changes in Croatian education and I have already told you on several occasions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91747	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91748	Thank you very much. As for the appointment of a director, I agree that he must be transparent and that was precisely the intention when we changed this article. So the programme of work that is to be valued is to be valued apart from basic and additional competences in the selection, except for the school board, not only in principle, but in reality the debate on the programme and the teaching, or teaching council, the working council and, of course, the parent council. So I think, in that sense, this is an important improvement. As for improving the position of teachers and teachers, I absolutely agree that this is our joint job, too, I agree. What we are currently working on, apart from improving material status, is important to ensure additional education and identify those who are very good. Now we work parallel to this and change the rule of progress and reward where we give teachers a chance to say and recognize what's best to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91749	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91750	Your Honors Minister, Your Honor. Since '72. until '82. For years if I'm not mistaken, we talked about education for the needs of joint work. Today we are talking about connecting the school and the economy, then the minister's name is Stipe Shuvar, today the minister's name is Blaženka Divjak. This first one is not remembered for its good, and I don't think this other one will be remembered for its good, since one experiment is being prepared on creatures, living creatures, but it's not rabbits, it's our children. Here it should actually be that as far as I see education adapts exclusively to two professions, these are chefs and waiters, and for other things there are obviously no needs. And it's very important here to point out that instead of strengthening the STEM area, that it invests, this is where it goes with an experiment of information, and that in a way that will buy thousands and thousands of pills that will be divided into our children, and in fact it won't even be I.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91751	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91752	Well, I'm very sorry, Your Honor, that you didn't do your homework and keep spreading false news. So the IT program is a special program that enters all schools, in the 5th and 6th grade of primary schools. And what you're talking about now, the experimental program of the school for life, which means complete curricula reforms, and in that sense you're mixing those two programs. And if you didn't know the information was part of STEM. Well, you might want to do it again. Now we're talking about equal opportunities. Well, of course we have to equip schools, so we haven't bought a single computer for school in ten years and about connecting the labour and education markets, of course we have to connect it even though it's not the only criterion. Of course, it is necessary to work to give all students the opportunity to develop all their potentials. And we are fortunately promoting quite successfully what you can see both in the interest and in the schools that are in this area and also in colleges. So homework.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91753	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91754	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored Minister with Associates. Here's your intervention in the second reading of this law that you bring into an unfavourable position of a person with a completed Faculty of Teachers with two studies in question is not a way. It is not possible because neither did the public debate and teachers and teachers have been affected, they have indeed been affected in view of the numerous reactions I have received with this way of making the law. And somehow they sow a tree of discord among teachers. I'm not taking anybody's side here and there's no populism or politics that you mentioned several times in your debate because you can't ignore the number of reactions that came to this. What's the basic problem for me is that you introduce one advantage through the law because it implies that whoever has that advantage is less competent. Well, if he's less competent, then my question is, how can he even do that job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91755	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91756	Well, first of all, we've introduced this through a debate in the House, just raising this issue, and among other things, you can read it from your party in a transcript. That's the first thing. The second thing, this is a topic that has been discussed for 20 years, and it is not news that something is being introduced on a small door, and then neither does the law recognise it, and we are talking about some acquired rights. The teacher who graduated from the Faculty of Education and for the study class course, of course, can work in the classroom and there is no competition at all. Someone who finished PMF can't work in class class class. There's not even a priority here, but the law is clear. Only the one who finished class. And here we say, given that one who has finished class class if he wants to teach mathematics must be compared by competence with those who are primarily educated for such an area. There is no discrimination and everyone is assured to continue working on the jobs they're working on right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91757	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91758	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, there's no figure in your pocket, you see, I said on many occasions you'll have full support. After the first reading, I thought I'd back this bill, you've even made one remark. You are a very important person in the Republic of Croatia, but the Assembly is not a fast service. Now you've brought me into a very awkward situation. I can't support this bill. You justify Article 29 of the amendments regarding... for reinforced objects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] See, that's what's ruining your concept, everything you've been saying. I'll let you in an individual debate try to explain how I think it. I call upon you to withdraw this proposal from this law. Because if it's been waiting 20 years, it can wait a little longer. You must not give in to any interested group. What's going on now? You've turned teachers against engineers who are now out in the open. This must not happen, the system must be just. So I urge you, withdraw this article and you will have the support around the law and for this will be time to settle in a just and just way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91759	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91760	Look, the debate was 20 years, the system hasn't settled in 20 years. At that moment, you have teachers in schools whose status is not legally recognised. And we would now have the opportunity to recognize that status. But we can't say they're the same levels of competence because they're not. So professional competence, with insight into the program, is very easy to determine. The truth is that now because we haven't arranged it, we have teachers who have completed class classes, who are in an unequal position. Because neither the Law recognizes them, nor can he pass professional exams in a class class class class class but only, and by the basis of the law, we would allow it. And what should also be said is that these new programs that are now not even recognized in the 2001 rules. So, the absolute anarchy that we now have the opportunity to arrange.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91761	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. These changes never occurred if they were not proposed by a colleague, Maria Puh, from the CNS. And don't just tell me that she was supported by my colleague Mattelian. You refused to read in your first reading the proposals of MPs Žagar, me, colleagues of Putica, colleagues of Grumoja, respected colleagues from GLAS, colleagues of Anka Mrak-Taritash, the only thing you respected is your party's proposal, or you'll say you're a non-party minister, but your colleagues, colleagues Puh. What you've done hastily, overnight, conditioned by certain stakeholders, is wrong because you've been fighting teachers and teachers, and that's why teachers are protesting you today. But I won't let that teacher/teacher fight continue in the Croatian Parliament today because you're actually a much bigger problem than you've made is that you assumed some other professions that have never been educated for the education system, teachers or teachers with enhanced subjects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91763	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91764	Of course, after the first debate in the Assembly, we explained some things, and we did not accept them, and you can read the transcript, and you will see that your party members also had objections that were going in this direction. You could also edit the system because you were in the ministry, you didn't edit the system. I know that this is difficult, but this solution is just because it takes into account competences both professional and pedagogical competences and no one is at risk of a job or access to future competitions for the teachers concerned. But you can't claim that 30 ECTS, meaning one semester of mathematics, information, English enough for the teacher in question to teach in the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th classes, regardless of the teaching methodical side of the story we have to talk about facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91765	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91766	... Chairman. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Well, Madam Minister, today it's all about being class teachers who teach certain classes, and they've ended up under an enhanced program. And they were actually the ones who had the most objections to that law. But if I understand you well, and I believe I am, all those who are class teachers and are employed, for them nothing changes, they continue to work in their workplaces. It's about those who are going to enroll in teaching schools in the future or calling class classes, but they have to decide whether they want to be class teachers or classes in the classroom, so they're going to enroll in other colleges. However, if they do, they are not prevented from employment, they will still be able to work but normally, under certain conditions or criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91767	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91768	Thank you very much for the further clarification. It's really like that. When you're in college, you're actually deciding on your qualifications for the future. And if you're enrolling in class school, your basic qualification is class class. Today, when you graduate from school for class, you get the academic title of Mr. Primary Education, which means you teach in class. And today, colleges are doing so-called. Small modules for individual items and it is recognised in the law that if there is a need and deficitary professions, you can still get a job as a teacher. But you can't have priority in that because, of course, when you put yourself in a ratio of how many professional objects you've had, it's multiplely smaller than they had other professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91769	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91770	I'll start now. The key question is how we're going to produce this system, what kind of man this is going to produce, STEM, biology, mathematics, black-and-white, what kind of man is going to produce where a teacher can't show parents teacher grades, where parents come in... you beat up teachers, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The first teachers are parents, that's the first question, what about the kind of gray social, social anarchy that we're seeing today, in that cheating culture that started before that cheating culture, you had, for example, in Split, the dean of the Faculty of Law who didn't graduate from high school just a Podgorje decent school in Podgorica there, nothing else was even a dean college, you have an index etc. That cheating culture is still here. What about social sciences, you have cultural Marxists down... The university philosophical, and the mental set can't change, they're still there, and every day they poison minds and brains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where are the lessons learned from Canada, etc., where did they introduce this transgender ideology? You have that information, and what's going on over there with the teachers? I had three more seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91771	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91772	Thank you. Here are two things I will answer, of course that the teacher can show the parent's grades, that's a lot of fake news too, I would say either bad public interpretations, and based on this amendment, the personal data protection regulation, of course, that the parent has the right to insight into grades, is the only question of how to approach and how to approach it when it's electronic but now I don't really need to talk about it specifically. The second thing, not only encourages STEM, encourages overall development, promotes equal approach, equal opportunities and development of the potential of each student entirely. And as for STEM, why we encourage it, so because we have it, so the areas of technical, natural science are sub-represented, we have too few engineers, too few of those who complete studies for which there is a need, and that's why we encourage this part in particular, which doesn't mean that I think that social sciences are in any way inferior, however.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91773	Next... Comrade Glasnović, we're not leaving the scene, are we? The next replica is the respected representative of Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91774	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you are known for your desire to inform school and school, and that is good in any case, however, you should not only be aware of school equipment to present the existing teaching content in digital form. I'm telling you this as a parent of seven children, and over the years, I've been familiar with the abundant content of teaching that children are exposed to and it's mostly about encyclopaedic knowledge without connection, without conclusion, without analysis, and it's practically the only thing used to evaluate students. Please, will this law help you to change things in this regard and do you consider it part of education reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91775	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91776	Thank you. Yes, it will change because I am an accent that we now have not more on the content, but on the facts, but on the curricula that are based on outcomes, which then enables what I said before, that we actually organize the whole teaching about solving the problem, not on the dribbling of facts, and all of these changes in curricula that are now prepared for autumn is in that sense. So it's not true that we're just buying equipment, we, for example, have completely changed the curricula in a way that is quite an emphasis on computer thinking, problem solving, and only after that on programming security on the Internet, and learning about disks and information history is now entering history. So the curiculas were arranged for other subjects and therefore we have education at this point for 6.5 thousand teachers and teachers, first for these 74 schools, and next year for all schools when we enter... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91777	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the replicas. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'll open the debate then, and the first one on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI will speak to the esteemed representative, Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91778	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Speaking on behalf of the Club on the amendments and additions to the Law on Raising and Education in Primary and High School, I will present our Club's position in the opening part of the three thesis. First, it is undeniable that education is a fundamental part of all social activities. The second, how undeniable it is that education is a question of the future. And third, as it is indisputable that the Republic of Croatia is one of the countries where the impact of the education system is not at the necessary level, and the main causes lie in the quality of the curricula. That's why the act we're discussing today has led to a great public interest. As for this final draft of the Law, I will look back on behalf of the Club on what we consider necessary changes between the two readings and all with the aim of facilitating daily school work. First of all, there was a lot of talk about it, I refer to the provision of the article. 29. where teaching colleges with enhanced teaching courses and modules are ranked as third in the teaching classes and not teaching courses with acquired pedagogical competences, and this is all stated since we have received a large number of comments and applications from teachers from class classes with an enhanced programme from certain courses and what can be read on the basis of their or correspondence that they are extremely dissatisfied with such a provision, and consider them to be a discriminatory position in relation to when other universities and take away the right to future employment. Secondly, we believe that it was necessary to re-classify in the Law a provision which, when necessary, the Minister may, at the request of the Director, grant a course from a specific teaching course to a person with an appropriate level of education not of an appropriate type if he has completed his education from that teaching class at a lower level or has fulfilled his study obligations in at least 4 semesters from that teaching class at a higher school and only at a school which has failed to employ a person who has a prescribed level of education for at least three years. This would in practice make it much easier to work, and in addition, it would act motivatedly on teachers and what is ultimately most important, such a fit, and quality people would be kept in the education and education system. Thirdly, I cite as a specificity, which is mostly referred to as smaller schools, we believe that the procedure for establishing a working relationship through a tender is too complicated because, according to the final proposal of the Law, if a person who meets all the requirements does not appear on the tender, the competition is repeated within 5 months. This item is very complicated but increases the scope of the work of both the principal and the school boards who must take care of the expiry of each individual 5 months, and then, before each 5 month period, make decisions on the publication of the competition, implement it and select a new candidate or extend the contract to an existing employee. I'm going to use this topic in a broader context and look back on what's going on here. non-teaching staff. Naima, untrained or administrative staff have a whole range of responsibilities in schools, numerous tasks. However, their salary accounting coefficient is lower than it is for teachers. Since, for example, the secretary of school or accountants must have a high level of expertise, then there is really no logical explanation why these employees have less coefficient than teachers or teachers, and our Club has an attitude to make it the most honest that the coefficients are equal. And in conclusion, he would ask two rhetorical questions, have we done enough of these amendments and additions to the law to make our education system more quality, more modern, and have we regained enough awareness that education is the way to achieve all social values? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91779	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that bridge of independent lists, on behalf of which will be spoken by the respected representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools is before us. I'll start by saying that the Bridge is going to require a third reading, because we think you're on... In an inadequate way, he tried to introduce order in the way of hiring teachers, class teachers, professors and teachers with enhanced subjects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we have now is the truth, it's a mess, but I can't take the impression that such a sudden change between the two readings was made on purpose, in order to introduce the dissension of the chamber, so that people in the chamber can argue about the employment championship, and the key issue has been forgotten, and these are the material rights and conditions of working in the school of professors. I believe that such a change would require a greater public debate involving all stakeholders, organising round tables, doing an analysis where class teachers' results would be combined with enhanced classes with those of the professors and, after the analysis, to make a decision and give time to the faculty of teachers and all others to carry out enrolment quotas based on that decision. This is how people are found and are afraid that their efforts in their education will prove to be in vain and will be difficult to get a job at school. So we disagree in the way that it was implemented and it is significant that in fact all the amendments to the Law on Education always happen in the month of July, when the teacher's focus is smaller because they are on vacations. These changes occur at a time when educational rehabilitators, i.e. those who work with children, who have difficulties in special institutions, are deprived of their material rights and up to 500 kn. These changes happen when the ministry has done nothing to protect teachers and teachers. I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that the government recently rejected the request to attack teachers and teachers as an attack on an official person. These changes happen when the ministry hasn't yet tackled a breakthrough in enrollment from primary schools and the inflation problems of the medals we have in our country. Recently, the media reported that a student who is a gardening IT and mathematician, who is an excellent mathematician, can't enroll in information and mathematical high school if he has a triple score in fine arts, music, religious sciences and they're cut off there. I think these are the real problems we need to face. These changes happen at the end of the school year, here's one information, which contained 1851 applications... an inspection, mostly anonymous of which a quarter of 513 proved justified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So for all other applications, taxpayers' money has been spent, and here, the ministry has announced that there will be changes to the law on educational inspection and I would like it to come as soon as possible. But we return to the amendments, the addition of the law, and I will explain some of the articles and items that we have some observations. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1. Therefore, point 1 of the public education mission, the system to be neutral and balanced and to enable the child to exercise that right. So, the term of public school, I think we should define more precisely, because there are private schools with a ministry permit. Article 5. Therefore, elementary schools can be conducted, regular, alternative, international programmes and programmes in the language of national minorities, special training programmes for students with disabilities and gifted students, art programmes and other programmes made by the Minister of Decision. Who can encourage the introduction of a new program? So this other program is also a vague term. So who can resort to the introduction of a new object, when and under what conditions? Is it the minister or any other body? So, you're giving yourself too much authority here, according to me, Minister. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Therefore, point 2 of the national curricula is adopted for individual levels and types of education according to the framework national curricular document. That document is still in effort, it is not finished, and here it is defined as being finished. Art. The 27th point 4 of the follow-up plan sets out the form of curriculum implementation of a mandatory electoral college and annual number of teaching hours their class distribution. In my view, it is necessary to lay down the criteria for the burden of students not prescribed in this article. Art. The 11th school curricula determines the curricula of electoral and academic subjects, extracurricular and extracurricular activities, the direct part of inter-sectoral and interdisciplinary topics. So you've put the electoral items here, which exist mandatory when the student chooses them, in the same level with extracurricular extracurricular activities. So, the curricula of electoral and university subjects, and the originals can't be part of the school's curricula. It's kind of a degradation of electoral objects. In paragraph 4, a new subparagraph is added, which is the strategy of school development, and I also think it is a vague term. Point 6 for participation of students in electoral university courses, activities and programmes that are not mandatory, it is necessary to inform parents and to obtain their written consent. So I think for high school students who are practically 18 years old and who are subject to some legal norms, I think in some way underestimating that they should seek the written consent of parents. So I'd change if seniors didn't need the parents' written consent to the S.H.I.E.L.D. You also did not change what I pointed out in my first reading, that the annual plan was brought at the beginning of the school year, but you extended that term. So you explained that it's actually on the professor's request because they're burdened with administrative affairs, but you kind of put a priority here on administrative affairs, making an annual plan in another way a seal. I think the annual plan is a basic document and it should be brought in at the beginning of the school year. Article 12 when an experimental programme is proposed by the school institution to apply to the ministry for approval, the implementation of an experimental programme which must be accompanied by evidence of the conditions provided. So every experiment has its own legality and who will follow it, which is wanted by experiment, here these items by me are not prescribed. In Article 16, the point at the end of the sentence is deleted, not sorry, for high school students a year and the weekly number of classes is prescribed by the curriculum and the curricula, and the total number of weekly hours should not exceed 40, so you have increased the burden from 32 to 40. There's no explanation written for why. Article 27 of Article 100(1) behind the words of the teaching under consideration is added point and the words of teachers, educational rehabilitators, and I am glad that you mentioned them when people were already protesting salary cuts, and in paragraph 4, points are deleted at the end of the sentence and the words educator, rehabilitator, logod and social pedagogue are added. We would also add a master of social work and social policy. In Article 39(3), the word insurance training is deleted and the words of work experience shall be replaced. Work experience is a very vague term. Working experience can also be washing glass on a gas station, I don't see why you've changed that term. I think working experience is too wide a term and there will be plenty of openness to manipulate. As far as the Director's election is concerned, we're going to propose an amendment here. We believe the director's term should be limited to 2 years, if the president can be elected twice, I don't see why the director can be a lifetime. I think that, in some ways, directors with such legal contributions are lurking in their position and that it is always a good change and certainly needs to be changed. I would also like to refer to both Articles 107 and 9 and as regards the representation of minority unions, amendments and additions to the law, the important issue of the composition of the commission in the administration's office and the involvement of two representatives of the state administration's office, two representatives of the majority union at the state level, is not addressed because this majority union, so I think that there is a neglected minority union. Honestly, I belonged to the majority union and I was even a union representative, but that majority union at the state level doesn't have to be a majority union at the level of a particular county. So in the County of Međimurje, for example. The minority union, the majority union, and just because of the reciprocity, I think that should include the minority union. And item 9 provides for the establishment and transparency of the recruitment process at the school itself, the example of fire extinguishing in the wrong place, instead of solving the problem where it arises, which is the office and the state administration, the problem being transferred to school, the way and the procedure arranged by the proper ministry commission. The proposed amendments to Article 107(7) and (9) will not deteriorate, but will not improve the situation with regard to the employment of technological surpluses in schools. Obviously, there was no political will this time either, and perhaps not the strength to finally solve a burning issue that has been going on for 20 years. And I'd actually end up demystifying the STEM revolution announced by this ministry and one, let's say by a banal, but a sign example. So the introduction of information is not a STEM revolution. I believe that the introduction of information is a step forward towards the digital education of our students, and an example of how important our ministry is STEM shows that approximately 3 weeks ago our small mathematicians from primary school mathematicians went to an international competition in mathematics for the first time in history. So far, this has been reserved only for the SS and these children have brought 3 silver and one bronze and no one, but nobody from the ministry has welcomed them at the airport after that success. It's just a small but tiny indicator of how important our ministry is to STEM and that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91781	Thank you. The next is the club of representatives of that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Sanja Putica will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91782	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed ministers with their associates, what is actually not good with that last bill, that is, in today's parliamentary debate, it is that in another reading that is the final proposal to amend and supplement this law, we have three times as many people reported in the debate as it was in the first reading. Which proves it's actually a goal, right? people who are going to debate here and who have sometimes not been involved in everything that has been done so far to amend and supplement the law exclusively politically and not professionally. In that sense, I will not re-explain the articles of the law that you have changed and in the first reading, especially today in relation to the first reading, just some general guidelines, remarks, what you have already heard from us on the Parliamentary Committee on Science, Education and Culture, it is necessary to bring amendments and additions to this law, regardless of some of its shortcomings, which it is. We note due to the start of the curricula reform, i.e. due to the start of the experimental programme in the first phase of the school year in September 2018. And of course the need for the legislation of curricula documents, which leads to the adoption of a roof national curricula document in relation to those in question which are brought and which are in the adoption phase. Of course, it concerns both the funds and the application of EU funds. I want to stress here as someone who comes from a school institution, as someone who has also run a large school facility of 700 students from and 68 employees, that schools, unfortunately, have not been specifically teamed up so far and have not been certain people who work in school accounting but not in professional services, have been educated in order to even apply to EU funds. I think that this law opens up a great opportunity for them and that their ability and ability to do a European project should be extended to other institutions, and that we are not saying that it can bring them financial benefits, not just to school, that it will no longer fall for the local or, in fact, the state budget, but will actually create for itself the funds that will invest in further school development. The selection of directors also increases his transparency in some way, by the fact that the directors will deliver a five-year programme, I must admit when I applied for the principal that I had already delivered it myself to the school board and that it made it clear from him what my program and guidance would be to lead the school, but it is good that we now have this introduced into law and that members of the school board but will continue to have an impact on the selection of directors. As a key advantage of the adoption of amendments and additions to this law, it would stress the fact that so far, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the central state, has not been able to invest in the school of construction or in the equipment of schools. This law finally opens up the possibility for everyone, it would say more undeveloped Croatian landscapes, that the Government, or the Ministry of Intervention in School Construction, in the equipment of school premises, school halls, and that finally and least developed in Croatia, provide conditions for decent students, teachers and all those attending schools. I'm going to say something about those shortcomings that I see in this law, which is that the comprehensive amendments and additions of this law, the larger one is now being seen, require the adoption of a whole series of additional regulations, for example, the rules on the selection of directors, which will certainly require rules for new entries, etc. But certainly the law seems to put a great responsibility on the minister himself, in this case the minister, for future documents and content and everything that enters schools. And it seems to me that, in some of his guidelines, it should be brought into line with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which this Assembly brought a few days ago. And in particular, it concerns people who will perform, for example, the teaching of information that is being introduced and their pedagogical competences, which they should have for themselves at school. It is a short period of time since the adoption, i.e. the entry into force of amendments and the addition of this law until the very beginning of the school year, and in that sense I will repeat what I have said on the board, that I do not think I will say aggressively, but it is encouragingly and motivated to act on the directors, in particular, the school boards, the teaching boards and the active ones, that at the very beginning of the new school year in September 2018, they would start to apply this law, in order to have the law, if necessary and to further diversify them and to know what practical measures they need to introduce into the life of the school and the amendments to this law. So, apart from what we listen to in the Croatian media today, therefore, both in the public and from teachers who are already doing their qualifications, i.e. the coefficient that will change the adoption of this law, I say the law in any case brings a new model of reform, we need it for that, but I also stress the need for state intervention in school construction, because conditions as we know in all Croatian areas are not the same, we need to enable them, if we want to do so in a few years, because we know that education system reform is a long-term process, if we want equal conditions for all our students and for all our teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91783	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, for your cooperation. In front of us is an extremely important law, which regulates the issue of education and education for every country that thinks about its future, and in particular in light of the recent debates that have lasted several years on the need for curriculative reforms to adapt Croatia's school to the needs of a new society, there is no dispute that this is about one of the most important procedures in the legislation in Croatia that can and will certainly have long-term consequences for the future of the school system, the educational model and what we expect of it for the benefit of our own society. The law is complemented by promoting educational values, values based on the right of parents to decide independently on child rearing, information and content based on modern scientific and educational standards and teaching in an objective, critical, pluralistic manner in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, EU law, international law, European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, European Social Command. The principles and values mentioned here are in one piece mutually conflicted and should be said. It is understandable that parents decide independently about the education and education of their children when it comes to what is going on at home, but to open that space, that is, in the family of course, but to open that space in a way that parents can dictate and the values of the school itself are actually one thing I would say is an unexpected compromise of the pressure of the work of the public that can give birth to a whole series of very unpleasant situations that can act devastatingly for the educational process itself. In fact, school parents can certainly influence the choice of school. As well as suggesting election items their child will choose at school. But it was absurd and in conflict with all the other principles mentioned when parents could influence the content of the basic curricula or the content of certain teaching subjects, because such an approach would invalidate the purpose of education and the idea of progress and social mobility through education. It is forgotten, so it is not mentioned anywhere here that the introduction of civil education and education on human rights in schools has been one of the criteria and obligations that the Republic of Croatia has made in the framework of negotiations on our EU membership. Specific in the negotiations on the most demanding chapter, that is, Chapter 23 which spoke of justice and fundamental rights. That obligation should be fulfilled, not ignored by keeping the fig under the table. The areas governed by this law, and a whole series of new ones, and in this sense, the law brings news that we welcome, opens up some opportunities that have not been regulated so far, and we can certainly say that it is about modernising the legal framework. In that sense, we support initiatives. We cite what's most interesting to us. The law adapts to making it possible to implement a curriculative reform that has long been spoken of. However, the proposal's position to the end is not consequential because it does not see exactly where and what are the changes that open the door to curricular reform because the core of the curriculative reform is in content. Everything else is a means of assistance that can then be presented in the best possible way information and content based on modern, scientific and educational standards. We say in an objective, critical and pluralistic way. But in the very text of the law, we don't see where it is. A list of schools with special programmes for gifted students is formed, for those with regular program and special program for children with difficulties already exist. More specifically, educational programmes that can be implemented in the OS are prescribed and thus facilitates and speeds up the procedures for their introduction. It makes it easier to change schools, easier enrolment and out of school, defined circumstances in which a student can continue schooling and after breaking up for more than two years in case of illness or some similar objective circumstances. The way students are included in the electoral training and the obligations resulting from this is defined. The deadlines for the adoption of the school plan and programmes, i.e. curricula and the annual plan and programmes, are changed, more flexible and more adapted to real life and the functioning of schools. The possibility is introduced that the education minister proposes experimental programmes, regulates extended school stay. It is a very important provision because it opens up a space for standardisation of one-way teaching. What is our objective problem and technical difficulties and lack of school buildings that could enable it. Of course, the situation is different from the middle to the middle. Somewhere it is already regulated, it is already being implemented somewhere and it shows extraordinary results and proves how much it makes sense to insist on a one-way course because it directly and indirectly affects not only the quality of education, but also the quality if you want family life, community life, schools become places where you can organize a whole range of other, quality, good and desirable activities aimed primarily at children. It is possible for the founders of school institutions to give an opinion on the number of parallel classes in one generation, the model for determining the daily and weekly number of teaching hours is defined and the maximum number of weekly hours created for OS and SS is prescribed, that is good. We'd like to have a comparative analysis of what a school looks like in VB and RH, as far as structures are concerned, the number of hours, the duration, and then we'd see huge distractions. So, that our children are already in school, in the first four or the first five classes are so burdened by, say, the children in the UK, that they have to sum up practically in four hours, not school hours, but four hours by 60 minutes, which is actually works in the UK for, say, six hours. That's not a little bit, that's 50% difference. It is burdening children in one way that instant pressures that children can hardly endure, especially at that age. The provisions of the liaisons for pedagogical measures, i.e. shall be amended and simplified. Sentences. We have that observation. Is that a good change? In light of the fact that there's a growing number of pressures, if you want to, and incidents where the defendants are not only students, but also parents. Should we actually go to a relief or should in some way protect teachers or teachers? The founder's obligation is to inform the minister of a change in the status of the school. The possibility of additional employment to work on EU projects in schools is regulated. The required qualifications of teachers and teachers will be able to establish the curriculum of the teaching course other than the rule. That means more flexibility. The possibility of extending the time limit for the national expert examination is introduced, and the fulfilment of the obligation to advance if there are justified reasons, maternity leave, etc. We think it's a good thing. It removes the possibility that workers in the school system at the same time use severance from one school where they are declared a technological surplus when they are already working at another school. The question is actually, which here is not regulated how long it has to take between one school layoffs and hiring in another for the worker to have a right to severance. We also have a valid evaluation of the psycho-physical health of workers in the school system in a way that can only be made by a doctor specialist in medical work. The selection procedure for the Director shall be simplified, candidates for the Director shall be obliged to submit their work programme for the term of office with other documents. We find that correct. However, we are reminded of a recent case of attempts to apply the Law on Croatian Defence to the selection of directors. We don't think the Minister made a mistake. The minister did as it says in the Defence Act, and the other is a pair of sleeves that the Ministry of Defense understood at one point that it was too much cake, or too much bite, that would be very bitter and then issue an interpretation contrary to what the minister had signed. Now there's some middle way to solve this problem. But the fact is, Madam Minister, you haven't read anything wrong or otherwise than it says there. It's just that the problem is that you had to get beat up first. It's not you and your interpretation that's the problem. It's the law itself that leads to a discrepancy between common sense and the necessary practice. It is prescribed that national budgets must provide means to ensure adequate and appropriate school space for children with special needs. The same applies to schools in the language and letter of national minorities. This is an extremely important provision, it finally gives technical conditions, if you will and the prerequisite for the state to meet its earlier commitments. It is proposed that the legal provisions on funding from the state budget be complemented in order to ensure state resources for participation in public-private partnership projects. Thus, although the Law begins in its fundamental approach to one contradiction when we talk about the values and right of parents to influence child education and education at school. It's kind of a political fig leaf. We will also support it despite the fact that it does not deal with the essence until the end because the essence of the contents of the curicula is actually in the way of defining that content. This does not mean that the Law itself, or the Proposal, is an amendment and the addition that it is a bad text, but that it is insufficient, incomplete. Obviously, there was no end to the courage to trample more than a knee into this water and to solve these open issues in the long and quality, primarily for the benefit of children, the future, and then to the future of our society. In some ways these changes and additions walk around the underlying problem as a cat around a hot porridge, but we also appreciate that you have come closer to that porridge and we hope that in the second or third steps you will have the strength to do more than that. It's not up to you to make political compromises, if you will. And as a non-party minister in the HNS quota, you have an additional assignment. Do not agree to political compromises but raise awareness of the problems of those who should make decisions. It is your task, the tasks of all those who want good for Croatia both tomorrow and the day after. I wish you success in that sense, but we are asking for more courage and determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91785	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB in the name of which time will be shared by respected representatives Branko Hrg and Goran Dodig. First honorary representative of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have already presented in our first reading of this Law certain things that we disagree with and which we ask for to be changed. Unfortunately, between the first and second readings, that was not possible. It's about transferring founding rights from county to local self-government units. Given that this article of the law was not the subject of an amendment to this Amendment Act and amendments to the Law on primary and secondary education, it was not possible to do so, for this reason our club let go to the procedure of supplementing the Law on primary and secondary education and I hope that we will get that support from the Ministry and that in the beginning of the Community, in the autumn session this will be on the agenda and that this supplement will be either in such or possibly in a similar form that the ministry will modify and adopt at this Assembly so that units of local self-government can take care of primary schools in its territory, especially for reasons that since 1.1. this year the fiscal potential of local self-government units that are now wanted and can manage their primary schools. On this issue and on this proposal of ours for these amendments and additions, I would ask the Honored Minister for support from us here and today in this debate, as well as whether our proposal, the proposal of our club HDS, HSLS, HDSSB, will be supported by you as resolute ministers and your ministry in these additions to the law. We will also submit an amendment to the proposed amendment and addition of the law and it is, of course, related to this part of which is very often spoken, which is why today and here were before the Parliament in Mark's square and protest. So we're going to give the amendment in which we suggest that class teachers be placed in the second row of the championship. We believe that those who have decided to study for the teacher of the teaching in question absolutely should have an advantage in employment because they only have that one choice, they have absolutely decided on a narrow sector of their work in the future. But they have that other part of their education, they have that educational part, they're preparing for child rearing, and it's a segment that's very important and very important anyway. Teachers of class classes who have been determined to take another part of the class are also people who have been assigned to work with children to work in school, and their employment space is narrowed down, they have every opportunity, to be teachers of class classes or to teach in the course in question. Those who opted for another study, for another profession, certainly are capable, certainly of having enormous knowledge but did not primarily choose to raise and work in school, working with children. They have a wider choice of employment opportunities, can be employed in many, many places this profession offers them. For this reason, primarily by looking at these people and their ability to hire them and seeing that they have been educated to raise and teach children, we believe that all those who have chosen to be teachers, be those who will raise and educate children, must have the advantage and the first place in school in front of all others who opted for other professions without entering the profession. And we can't compare expertise because if we've made it possible by law in any way that they can all work in the course in question, then it's just a matter of whether there's a frame on the market right now or not, then somebody else is going to work with the kids anyway. So we ask nicely from this work that the ministry will consider this amendment that we are about to submit, so it's just a replacement in that work that teachers of class teaching with an enhanced class class class class ahead of those who didn't first education to work in a school for child education. Here with these few observations, we generally do not have any major objections to these legislative proposals, we regret that it has not already been possible in the first part and seen how to transfer the founding rights of schools to units of local self-government primarily cities and thus further connect the local community with the school, with education, but here we have proposed amendments to the law, we expect their support, and in that case we will not even support our club questioned by the proposal to amend this law. Professor Dodig will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91787	Your Honor, Agent Goran Dodig, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91788	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see, today we are passing one of the laws that together with another set of laws regulates one area which, I would say, is crucial to every society and to ours. In the 17th century, when a philosopher came to Dubrovnik, he asked and told people in the Dubrovnik Republic to show me the programs by which the children were studying at school, so I'll know what his company was like. So if there is an area where we need to think seriously to the end, to the end responsible, then it is certainly education and education. This is only one part of where rules are regulated by law when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. Often, it is thought that elementary and secondary schools are less important for society and that they need to be less qualified professionals and that it is easier to raise children as small and as no longer sought, neither they nor parents. Parents are satisfied that children get excellent grades, children are satisfied, if they play more than learn, and everything is fine. And the final result of that is that we have the society that we have. In my deep conviction, it's a law that's been passed in one lot I'd tell the confusing opportunities to pass a law like this. On the one hand, the core of the problem was focused on trade union issues, on the other, on newer, professional ideology, education. And in that schedule of strength or conflict of strength, we get I think a law that can in itself be acceptable, but it is far from what it should have an effect on the public and what it should have on general social events and education. From the beginning, it began with the assumption that schooling in Croatia has not been valid, for the past few years, has been constantly said that education in Croatia is not valid and that thorough reforms are necessary. The fundamental changes, they're never good, in a way, to deny everything that was done before. In these benches and in this House and in this society, we've all finished some schools, and certainly those schools weren't so bad, because it's obvious that even by international standards, our jacks are going well, our students are getting a good job and they're not scissors labour. We politicized that story, like there was nothing wrong and we had to do everything from the beginning, so we went with, we heard the slogan of technology, not ideology. That slogan from the beginning, it discriminates, this part that comes first, which is part of the education. As much as this has taken place, you will say this is not the place to talk about it now, but we have a story today about the success of tourist destinations, where anti-aging is happening. We have a story of tourist destinations, where aggression happens, we have a story of tourist destinations, where something is happening that no teacher or school can correct later or family. To leave all philosophy and education, to look through the aspect of profitability and the current is a very dangerous story. I know that there is no minister now and that she is not interested and therefore there is no point in talking about the details of this law either, but this law is passed and will be passed with one bitter taste of public discontent professionally, with the dissatisfaction and anxiety of all those who know that what we do today in this area, that the bitter fruits of it will be eaten tomorrow. So dear friends, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, let's be careful with this story, with the given ideology, which becomes the ideology of industry and the ideology of entertainment, without thinking, ideology without man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91789	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers in absentia, respected representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education, respected colleagues and colleagues. I think that the amendments and additions of this law will cause the unprecedented chaos so far in Croatian education, in so much weirder, which will actually cause most of the provisions that took place overnight between the first reading and the second reading in this Croatian Parliament, which in translation would mean without professional and public discussion, as foreseen by a certain law. This kind of self-will, I must admit, has never been seen before in the Croatian Parliament, at least as far as the Ministry of Science and Education is concerned. Let's take it in a row. I absolutely disagree with Madam Minister in the act when she says this law will introduce order, no. This law will introduce the full, there will be riots in the management of technological surpluses, in school employment, in the employment of schools in the election of directors, but we see that riots will be introduced and in chambers where they keep trying to argue with this one provision of people who have actually chosen life for school by enrolling their teacher's or teacher's colleges, they chose school, not as their job, but as their call. And today, some of those people in the classroom who normally work, who are building themselves, the future of this country, our children, are trying to get in the way of being so rude. Similarly, this law will weaken the educational role of the school because there are some tendencies in this law, and I will say something about it a little later when we talk about EU projects that are actually from schools, instead of hiring new educators, psychologists, professional associates, defecologists, to raise salaries to our teachers and teachers, we through this law allow employment in schools to know who? Those who will be employed at school only to work on EU projects, only for this reason, will open a public tender. And what did schools become? I have nothing against the use of EU funds and I have nothing against schools using successful EU funds, processing their premises, content, teaching methods, but schools are primarily educational institutions, not HNS bureau projects. And thirdly, in order to be voted in this Croatian Assembly through the strategy of science and education and technology, we wanted to actually strengthen in the system of education more somehow on professional foundations rather than politicising it, unfortunately through this law he will further politicise himself. I'll say something about that a little later. What we can't promise is that we haven't been able to deal with the key things that are coming to us, which is the implementation of the entire curricula reform. In this law, all that is provided for in the full curricula reform has not been implemented in this document, which should be a legal prerequisite for introducing it. Again, we will not do anything about changing the monitoring, evaluation and evaluation of students in OS and SS, which is an integral part of the entire curricular. If you have been claiming to the entire Croatian public for several months that you are going into full curricula reform, then I guess you have gone so far into this complete curricula reform that you realize that there is no complete curricula reform without a completely new approach, not only in the content that will be taught, the way of teaching that will be applied, but in monitoring, evaluation and evaluation. That's not gonna happen. The full curricula reform assumed the same commitment to each student, regardless of its starting position. We have gifted students, we have students with developmental difficulties, special curriculas have been made for these groups of students so that every student at school can show their potential, get the service that needs in that educational sense, it doesn't actually exist here. But that's no wonder, access to children with special needs is no wonder. Well, a few weeks ago, the poor people who work in special institutions with children with developmental difficulties were protested because here they are not ready, the ministry is not ready to respect a collective contract guaranteeing an increase in wages from 100 to 500 kuna, none of it. The rule for assistants in the podium for children with disabilities should have seemed to me 8th or 6.7th, so it was a promise after a year to see the light of day, but it doesn't matter to paint in the media, to pretend that nothing was happening before us, that we were a major reformer and that we would change the whole world, and we weren't able to have an ordinary rule for helpers in continuing for children with developmental difficulties brought within the deadlines that we set ourselves, no one forced you to work from the tongue shovel. 6.7 was supposed to be published. Let's move on, now, why is the educational role of the school weakened? Why will this minister weaken it? And among other things, for one reason, why today these teachers, class teachers, are protesting in front of the building. Not because they have something against teachers or want to take their place, but because of the third class cases being done, not only will they have teachers who have studied certain subjects to work in the classroom and I am one of them, and I am a English teacher so I don't mind that teachers of classroom classes with an enhanced English language are working in front of them, but is some English translator who has the extra, short, fairly unregulated pedagogical, psychological, doactic education that is being charged somewhere like this, somewhere, somewhere like this, I'm going to be rude so I'm going to say somewhere and buy for small money, are they more professional and competent than I am, i.e. from class teachers with an enhanced course to teach children? Who actually devoted their world to pedagogy. They may not be as professional in language, but these are the sensitive age of a child when the pedagogy of methodology is extremely important, if not as important as the expertise in a particular case. And you see, this minister, at the proposal of her colleague, Puh from the HNS, decided to give priority to people who didn't study for work at school, who didn't have a choice for a life call, for the life of their dream, to give priority to those people over class teachers with an enhanced course. Do you have any information that the school will stop educating these staff? You may have some exclusive information. Only in that case can I understand such a measure if you know that the school of teaching simply decided to stop producing human resources that the system does not need. If you don't have that exclusive information, I don't know why you're doing this. Why do these people who pay their bills, pay their colleges, their parents invest in them, why after 5, 6 years, 10 studies tell them look, there's no easy place for you, there's going to be some FER engineer or from my college where I was a dean, he's going to have an advantage, he's going to be the one. Why are we doing this? I don't know. Employment, technological surpluses and the selection of directors. Yes, and speaking of EU projects, this law or changes in second reading now not only will we allow teachers and teachers to work in part of their time on EU projects and be adequately paid or released parts of the course, which is fine. But let's not forget again what is the key role of school, so we'll hire new ones in schools that will only work on projects. Now, directors will be able to work on EU projects 30% of their time. Okay, I understand about teachers and teachers, someone's gonna be their replacement. During this period, someone else will be employed, at that time which he will work on EU projects and children will not suffer. Now, who's gonna change directors? The directors don't have deputies. Are you saying that we now have 30% of our working hours that the directors have nothing to do, that we pay them in 30% of our working hours, actually too much. This is how it turns out. That they will be able to perform their duty uninterruptedly, if they will work up to 30% on projects. Is that what you're saying? That they are actually 30% unused all the time and will receive 9% higher salary than those directors who, by chance, want to be principals, manage school, and so they will not, do their teachers and teachers on EU projects, they will not. I don't know what's being rewarded here right now, actually. Which is the quality of the principals. Why this one will have 9% higher salary for working on the project, and this one, which may be the top director, but this one will not work on the EU project, and he is the top director, has the great team working on projects, he is the phenomenal manager, the pedagogogogist, the head of the facility, he will be punished because there he is, and there he is, he will have the normal salary he has so far. I don't understand how you promote excellence, and then you bring some crazy solutions to us, and then you'll tell us right now that we haven't read well, that we should have read more carefully and politicized. What you said at the outset was that it was politicizing, that this was politicized, so how can you tell the people who are protesting here because they think they're being cut off, that they're politicians? How can you say they're politicians? Who's running them? What policy governs them? Yeah? Well, you're not well-informed. Change the sources of intelligence, but also change the counselors who advise you to pass these laws. Now, in the selection of directors, you see, this government, and this minister has already given up the professionalization of the role of directors and what is written in some way in the strategy, that we will prescribe the exact ways in which we will train the principal to be as high-quality managers of their schools as professionally but in business terms and that we will reduce the impact of policy on the choice of these people who are key holders with teachers and teachers of education systems. And now she's telling us, here our esteemed minister says, look, we're now working on having competent directors, you won't be enough with just those conditions to get into the system, but you'll have the necessary conditions and you'll have the competences. Now, there are no necessary conditions. Under the Labour Act, there are general conditions. The general condition for working is that you're over 15 years old and there's everything else that is actually, which is special conditions. There are no necessary conditions and competences. You're in charge. What does that mean, that people who compete for principals aren't competent? Well, I guess they're all competent to work in the system, who've been trained to be CEO candidates. If we respect the Constitution and say that they are available under equal conditions in public institutions. Well, you see, but she's going to eliminate the defenders, among other things, the defenders. For now there is no more that which has been passed the Law, but now the defender will only be able to prevail if he has the same number of points with the other. Look, I may have a lot against the items in the new Croatian Defence Act. But if that law is passed, then we must respect him, not in this way try to push through something else. Just like hiring, taking care of technological surpluses. Look, there's no more going on with technology surpluses that the advantage will be, say, defense attorneys. Or when you're hiring, there's not. Why? Because when you take care of technological surpluses, in the selection of directors, in new school employment, you are now subject to specific rules that do not bring states under equal conditions for all, but each school for itself, with the consent of the founders. And that's depoliticization, that's respect for Croatian laws? This is contrary to some European norms, contrary to the Constitutional Republic, so if you want to and contrary to the Law on Defences voted here, I say again, whatever I think about it. It is not right to bypass Croatian laws in such a rude way or to repeal them in the Croatian Parliament. There's a lot of it, a lot of it. And there are too many things that have been changed overnight for some reason, which will not lead to a better education system, to the introduction of order, but will produce so far unremembered mess as in our schools. This will happen after leaving this minister from the Ministry of Science and Education, chaos and an unprecedented riot at the Ministry of Education. But they will not suffer, and those who come after them will suffer, and they will have to take care of it. But here they will suffer all the schools, all the students, their parents and directors. I'm sorry to hear that. This minister has made a lot of promises, but this proposal for a legal solution and the way she worked it out terribly disappointed me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91791	Thank you. A fellow Bull raised his hand. Go ahead. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91793	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club to consult on this law we're discussing. The foundation of education, educational reform is equality, equal conditions for all students, said the minister here in the first sentences. However, the fact is that two-thirds of Croatia do not have free OS textbooks and the fact is that at this point in the Republic of Croatia the textbooks for OS are weighing about 7 kilograms on average, and we have 10.9 kilograms on average. I've got a bag of 10.9 kilos here. The EU and many members say 10% of students' weight is too high, that is maximum. We have students who are literally harder textbooks in the Republic of Croatia than in our schools, than they are students. Is that the state of knowledge, the school of knowledge? Is that equality? Is that digitization, is that the reform minister you've been saying for almost a year? The students wear, I'll give you this, and it'd be good if during the break, you all took in the hand of 10 kilos, what our students wear, and most of them got sick. Parents are calling to start getting diseases around the spine, problems, and I hear students say the most difficult subject is textbooks, 10kg textbooks. Minister, I'll give you how you've done the reform program, these 10 kilos textbooks, and pass on a little bit, and you fellow MPs, look at all of you who've discussed reforms so far, and students carry harder textbooks than they are themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91794	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91795	Here, so I'd like to say that I'm looking for a break for the reason that the Ministry of Science and Education actually changes textbooks every year, and all for a consequence is that children, i.e. students, have to buy new ones from year to year, even though there were no revolutionary shifts, or so to say the insights which, for example, turned mathematics upside down or physics or chemistry. They are simply changing textbooks just to please publishers, and that they are doing textbooks, which are students, which is why they suffer damage. And I hope the ministry finds a moderation, finds a way not to have to buy new textbooks every year, that students can buy, i.e. that I can either borrow or inherit or trade means textbooks from the last generation. It's a big savings for parents and it would be a budget savings because the state itself has to pay dearly for places, or places that subsidize the purchase of textbooks, also spend inescapable money on it, and it's about paper, about old paper that's actually going to be dumped very quickly, it's about an enormous amount of waste, paper waste. And in fact, the current model that the ministry advocates is costing students and creating unnecessary waste, that's what I was going to say. [[Intruder Rainer: Comrade Bulj, please remove this, people will speak from this pay phone.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91796	Of course I'll give you a break because it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I draw attention to the time for the individual hearings to be reported. We still have four clubs and we have 15 individual debates reported, and then, if there are no replicas anywhere after 4:00, we will go to a debate on 82 amendments that have been tabled and continue naturally with the other laws according to the programme. So we'll continue at 11.50. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished ministers with their associates. Here's on behalf of the HSS Club a few words about the Law on Raising and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools. We are all in cubes today, in shirts, we are all with Croatia, we are proud to be among the four most successful teams in the world in football, but believe me, we are all for this and for Croatia to be among the most successful in the world according to the results of our students, professors, teachers, according to the results of our workers and our economy. We all want to beat England today, and we're going to win. We all want to win France and be world champions, and I believe that can happen. Of course it's the result of one quality work and quality team management. In order to have a successful education, quality science must be invested in science and education. We are still among the EU's members by the percentage of the separation from the state budget to science and education somewhere below 3%, far the weakest while Europe stands out between 5% and 8%. And the Minister, i.e. the Government wanted this law to improve the quality of education and to raise that standard, but most of them so far who have spoken on behalf of the club and the general public is of the opinion that we will not get that quality, that we will not get that quality that students have quality education, that they acquire knowledge and skills with which tomorrow they will be less employable and that our scientific community produces such results through scientific works and contributes to an economy that creates better living conditions in the Republic. The bad guys say that in order to be successful, we have to have a quality coach and quality players, to continue with the sports dictionary. Bad people say that, since the minister was a spare player and came to the minister's place instead of others, she cannot bring that quality that a spare player can't bring that quality. I disagree because a spare player can also be provided if a quality program is run and the project is well designed. And a team that plays well can get lucky and score a goal from offside and admit to being naked unless the judge notices. However, here many of our fellow citizens have noticed that something has been wrongly done, especially toward people who are finishing their studies at school. And here this morning they protested, and they are against such that we give naked from offsides than they ask to be spoken to and to be through public debate, and there was no public debate to pass a quality law where everyone will have the same chance of both education and acquisition of title and knowledge, but also tomorrow's employment. They feel that it is unfair that what is without public debate, without respect, the importance and roles of teaching schools in Croatia, and over 150 children per year are enrolled in teaching schools, they have work permits, they have diplomas and tomorrow they are challenged the possibility that they can have a job with that diploma. You should say that they're... Governments were just going in this direction to make it possible for small schools and unfortunately we have many schools in Croatia that with 100, 150 students in our rural areas where they have problems with teachers and mathematics and physics and English and information and then drained people from this foundation who worked in these schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm sure it's something to think about, talk to people, and equally value people who finish colleges where they get licenses and diplomas. Ministers have a similar problem through the Foresting Act with urban foresters. Here's the other day and through the Health Protection Act with people finishing studies for medical laboratory diagnostics. Why do we make human beings who won't have anywhere to work tomorrow? Let's not do this to young people because you say introductively that this law and this reform of education is a focus of yours, you said it nicely. However, it must be in the focus of interest and let us then give it to the student both in Ilok and in Vukovar and in Konavla the same conditions for schooling and allow through the acquisition of titles and skills to be easier to employ on the labour market tomorrow. At present, it is not because not everyone in all schools has the same conditions and not everyone in their cabinets has the kind of equipment that schools in Zagreb or Varazdin should have and should have it all. And we agree with you that more funds must be allocated from the state budget for education and it is good to rebuild the schools in Vukovar and others that you mentioned but also Milan Amrus's school in Slavonski Brod, which you said was going to and I hope that it will finally happen after 10, 15 years of waiting. I think that's what children in Slavonski Brod and the wider surrounding deserve. Here is also to praise something in the article 34 you have allowed extended school stay, we believe from HSS that it is good, that children have a place to stay after regular classes, to cooperate with teachers, teachers to work on the material they had on that day, and to write and school homework, so that we do not burden parents in such a way that we give children the opportunity to study some of the ambiguities from the teaching program and to make better sense of and leave families and parents and children to discuss all those other topics that are important for the development of a young man, to be a man who knows how to think critically, who will know how to use those skills he has acquired and to apply it in his life and at work tomorrow. Here is what is well done and in this direction other changes in education should be done. What we believe is just as my colleague Bulj said that many in Croatia agree, that our children are overloaded. And the weight of the bag and the books but they're overloaded with the number of mandatory items that move somewhere around 17, 18. So here are fellow MPs and MPs, can you quality this week 17 laws, study, prepare and discuss them in quality? Let's face it, we can't. And then you figure out what's the burden in front of those students who have 17 objects, impossible. We need to see which items to put the focus of interest, increase the same captainship, see the correlation with the needs of the economy and the labour market, and thus have an educational system that will really give everyone an equal chance and a better chance for our students to be successful and to be among the best in Croatia because I would like to hear when some student of ours wins international competition and congratulate them but it is mainly about talent, the work of students, the work of parents, the work of teachers, teachers who work with them, but would like all students to have such a chance. that there are many, many more. In order for us to have that, we have to satisfy what I said, a greater separation for science and education, in all schools to create equal conditions, and then we come back except for what the student has to be in the focus of interest and always everything is about him, another important wheel there is a teacher, a professor. It must be adequately motivated to have a successful education because there is no successful education and quality without motivated teachers, teachers and others involved in the process. Let's be honest, and for the last 10 years, 15 years at a time of economic crisis, it was this class of society that suffered because of the crisis and they didn't grow their wages, even in certain periods and fell their wages and it was never compensated. And that should be congratulated, thanks to these people for making their contribution and working with our children in the best faith to give them the best things they can and know. But now that we have a surplus in the state budget, they deserve to be more singled out and their salaries increased. It is good that through this law it is possible for the EU implementation of projects to increase teachers' salaries to 30%, but this is a key emphasis from the project, from EU funds. There is no budget for the Republic of Croatia because it will not be able to have an EU project in all schools and raise its salary. Let's motivate these students and work on some projects, come up with projects from national sources that will be financed from the national programme so that they, those schools and those teachers who won't go through EU competitions, have motives to work with students, create and increase their wages when we can't indirectly, and me and the HSS advocate that they must certainly raise salaries and teachers and teachers in Croatia from the national budget plus this part of the EU funds, not to reduce them as they recently protested in front of the ministry over some 500 or 600 kuna, which will have a lower salary of a certain group in this process. It is not a good message and it has to be corrected, we must allow our teachers and teachers to live on their salaries in Croatia because right now with such salaries as they have, they cannot settle all their overhead costs, their needs to advance travel, culture and others and be motivated to work more than 7.8 hours a day with students and teachers. It's a reality, and we all need to understand that, and we need to act that way. Here's some time, so I'll mention this part where we want it to be the most successful among the most successful, and according to the latest reports for last year from the European Commission, where the quality of education is assessed in Croatia, they say we are below the EU average, that our main problem is poor quality of teaching and curricula. And yet precisely because of these students who want to be successful, we also have to raise that quality of teaching and curricula, reduce the burden of students to simply reproduce what they have learned to be some hard drive or CD, rather than to be people who think about what they have learned, to think critically, to know how to draw conclusions from it, and to open up to themselves such jobs where power will work and earn tomorrow. And he would add to secondary schooling, that such a network of schools or curiculas should certainly be made in cooperation with the economy. We have examples of municipalities and cities where, in cooperation with the economy, they have managed to get new jobs in their schools that they can attend and have a bang and get a job tomorrow. This is the way to which we should surely go and follow these examples and give the principals the opportunity, together with the school board and regional self-government, to create such development with the counties. And the whole centre of competence, but also to leave the principals to be directors, of course, that they can participate in EU projects, but it is necessary to limit the time they can set aside their time to work on EU projects, it is more important that it is better organised, the system at school, to be a real manager, to interest teachers and teachers in enrolling and doing projects with students, not to waste their time. Because he's in charge of school management anyway, and he's got a slightly higher salary than the rest of them, and so he needs to give teachers and teachers a better chance just to increase their wages through this way, when they're not already increasing their salaries from the state budget. And here, Madam Minister, I think this debate on behalf of the HSS has been directed in this direction and Croatia has won England days and that all players are participating in this process, that we give everyone a chance to cheer and you know when the easiest cheers and when the Croat is satisfied, that of course when Croatia wins, but when it has a wallet and when it has a quality certificate and a diploma. Let's make it possible for our fellow citizens. Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91799	Thank you, too, for continuing the debates on behalf of the club of representatives, next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Party of Labour and Solidarity and Reformists and Independent Representatives, colleague Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91800	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try harder to read than to speak freely so that you don't say something wrong and I don't get it wrong. I tried to clear up on the Legislative Committee, this basic question, which was also discussed by my colleague, Glasovac, about the public debate, i.e. e-consultation. There were about 900 of them, I think, objections, so to speak, almost none, or very little was adopted. And what encouraged me most about this debate and to speak on behalf of the club from this pay phone is actually a proposal for an article. 29. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education, in which I have not seen a legal basis from this public debate, to introduce such an article in the final draft of the law. In fact, and reviewing the proposals and observations from the public debate, the ministry explained that, under the Science and Technology Education Strategy, the aim is to professionalise the teaching profession, one of which is to draw up key documents for the professionalisation of the teaching profession. National competence standard for teaching profession based on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. Thus, a competent standard will also be the basis for legislative changes. There is no such background, and we have a proposal to amend and supplement the law on the final text. And now, something from the legal domain, it seems to me that the time has come, but once in the House, such a single proposal has been, to pass the Law on law enforcement. We have unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts brought by the Croatian Parliament, to the N.N. the number 75 published in the '15s which, if amended or amended, complements several times, must be approached by the adoption of a new regulation, as a rule after the third amendment or, as a general rule, supplement. This is not the first case that we have bill proposals in the final text of the Parliament, with more amendments than 3 and that we are not passing a new law, but we are constantly going to change and supplement. So we suggest that these changes and additions be postponed, and that is where we tend to the position of Mosto to go into 3 readings, at the very least, that is, to withdraw art from this law. 29 who, according to us, was not in a public debate and caused great debates and opposition in public. You will allow me to read something from the letter of the teacher regarding the article. 29 amendments and additions. For 20 years, teachers have been doing very successfully the jobs they are now trying to take away, the minister says in public statements, the ones who are staying, and I wonder, and what about the new ones, leaving college. It is directly discriminated against graduates of other non-teachers' universities and is deprived of their right to future employment in their own profession for which they have been educated since the first day. There is a huge difference when someone immediately refers to this demanding call, to be a Methodist, to be a teacher, and when it comes to it, 4 according to the old program, or 5 years of everyday perfecting work both on theory and in practice, because what they learn in theory is immediately checked on the ground, in scratches, in living classrooms, rather than when someone wants to be an engineer first, so they change their mind and then at some courses, wants to learn how to teach such a sensitive group, such as primary school students. Our students deserve the best methodists, those whose first choice is to study, learn, and learn, and not those whose second choice is to be easily mastered overnight and to be hired as teachers. This is, in fact, the essence of the amendments and the addition of Article 29. I would say that I will not read a letter from the Dean of the Faculty of Education in Zagreb, that it was a time when the teacher knew more than his students, but that does not mean that the engineer knows more than the teacher who has passed all the stages of education and that he has to know and motivate the student today and deserve their affection and that the teacher, it was already in the debate, not only is it called that it is a life call and should not be discriminated against. The club of representatives of the Labour Party and the solidarity of reformers and independent MPs referred to in the procedure and its amendment, we ask that this article be deleted from the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the law or, at the very least, the withdrawal of the law because we will not support the adoption of this law when voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91801	Thank you, too. We're going on with the counseling club. Next up is a colleague, Maria Puh, on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91802	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected minister who is here somewhere with his associates. At first I have to say I'm ashamed, and why am I ashamed? I'm ashamed of it because today's education is used for populism and for collecting cheap political points. This scene that my colleague Bulj has just staged for me has definitely no place for today in this debate and this kind of performance when discussing such an important law is simply not acceptable. This bag is in some way actually a symbol of current education, this bag is a symbol and one of the reasons for our fight for education, and ultimately this bag we didn't use for cheap political points and for populism, but we used this bag to find a constructive solution and a way to change this current state and how to change this current bag, we didn't use it for circulation in the Assembly. After all, if my colleague Bulj didn't know, there is a curricula reform going on in the autumn, and one of the main items is actually a very important item, and it's again about this bag that was showing up here today is that students will be relieved of their bags by at least 30%, but unfortunately you don't have any concrete suggestions, but the bag is used for pulsism and politics. What also saddened me today, in the previous debate, we heard a rebellion against the introduction of pills into schools and against giving students pills. Now, at the end of the day, when we put all this together, I don't know, maybe it would be the best solution to go back to tiles and chalk and maybe everyone will be happy behind it, but who will eventually think about the future of our students and who will really work to improve the conditions of our students? As far as this law itself is concerned, of course we support it and of course we support its changes. There is constant demand for reforms, for system editing, and when it goes into reform, and when it starts to change, don't touch me, don't touch me. So everybody's moving away from it, let's start with someone else, let's not get away from me. My colleague, Glasovac, called me today that I am the one who has proposed certain changes, so I have to deny you and I have to read you a stenogram from the first reading of this law where your colleague Matteljan said: "I will give you a plastic example, let's say you can finish PMF, so mathematics and physics, you can become a professor of mathematics and physics, or just one or the other, to teach it to OS, so that your colleague or colleague who ended up at the Pedagogical Academy would have the same salary as you who studied it at a special university for 4 years." It was also said that only those proposals made by the HNS club and which I made were accepted from the first reading. I ask you not to disrespect other colleagues who have also had very good suggestions and who have been accepted and who have contributed to this law on education, let us not belittle them. We have many other colleagues that you can also do in a stenogram, and ultimately, in the bill of law, see all the other proposals that are covered by this law. After all, the aim of this law must be quality education and education and student must be the center of everything, students must get the best possible education. Today, both directors and employment were mentioned, i.e. the selection of directors. I definitely support introducing additional competences and doing a certain selection procedure. So far, all those who have applied for the competition have had equal conditions, minimum conditions, all had the same opportunity to become directors, and now that director still needs to submit his school's work plan and in some way present his vision, and each school can determine certain competences that will follow the school's vision, which will follow what the school has drawn. Because let's not lie, in many schools I had many of my colleagues who worked at school, who changed, were substitutes and went from school to school. In certain schools, the atmosphere was superb, with motivated directors, with motivated professors. But unfortunately sometimes, in some schools it can be a problem, and you can simply see the difference in the motivation of teachers themselves, and then in the motivation of students if that main engine that pulls is not motivated is not competent and is not ready to work for its school. I also heard suggestions today that you might consider limiting the director's office. I don't want to get into it any deeper, but it seems to me like one of the possibly good proposals to think about it in the future because after I don't know, two or three terms it just becomes a routine, a lack of new energy, a lack of new ideas, new ideas, and maybe in the future it wouldn't be bad to think about it. What is still very good in this Law, and we didn't really mention much in this debate right now, and we kind of put it in another plan, but it's definitely not something that belongs to another plan and I think it has to be pointed out, which is that in art. 42. enables the budget to be set up expenses for the construction, construction and reconstruction of school premises and equipment of school institutions. Namely, we are all witnesses from year to year when the school year begins at the 9th month regularly every time on television we have contributions from the Nikola Andric elementary school in Vukovar. We have contributions to a catastrophic school that I just don't think has the conditions that students should have, and, well, I hope now that we're going to change in this ninth month when the school year starts, that we're going to get a much nicer picture from that school and that these students are going to get what they deserve, which is a school that's just going to be a polygon that's going to give them a better life. What is not mentioned today in the debate, which I find excellent, is that regular programs and special programs for children with difficulties are also introduced for gifted students. Sadly, often well - endowed children are taken for granted and have not always been given opportunities to develop. Now, they're being put into the school's network, and I think you're definitely doing a major shift and you recognize the gift and excellence. Also today, we have had a lot of riots and protests against writing EU projects in schools and rewarding those who write these projects. So I don't know why it's considered a bad thing? We have EU funds at our disposal. At the same time, we hear we're not pulling enough money, and in the end, it's not the only country that's pulling the money, but of course, the lower ones can pull it back. And I can also say from practice that we have examples of schools that have been significantly raised from other schools in their environment, and ultimately all their work on writing the project, about hiring around the EU projects is clearly seen and valorised by the number of students who appear to be enrolling in these schools. The students' interest in enrolment in these schools is increasing significantly as they realise their projects. After all, education is changing and education must change because technology is changing, society is changing, everything is changing. We can't stay here where we are, and even less we can stay in the past where our education has been for some time. Education is changing, it has to change and we're working on it and we're going to go to school for life one step at a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91803	Thank you. And the final debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. A colleague, Ivan Pernar, on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and SNAGA. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91804	Thank you, Your Honor. The suma sumarum, i.e. the focus of this debate, is whether those who have ended up saying so, e.g. PMF direction chemistry or in Philosophy history have the advantage of hiring in primary schools over class teachers who have had an enhanced subject such as history or some other subject? And it's actually about conflict of two interests. On the one hand, it is the interest of those who have finished, so to speak, who went to one or two subject studies, and on the other hand, the interests of those who went to school with some enhanced subjects. And now, as an individual, not only of me, but of each of us sitting here being asked to take one of those two sides. Whatever side you take, someone's gonna have to hang out. It will be up to either those who have graduated from school or will raise those who went to one or two subjects. Now, here's the question. Is it possible for a wolf to be full and sheep to be numbered? Well, in this case, obviously not. Because it is either teachers or those who have completed one and two subjects will either have the advantage of employment or have the same employment opportunities as those who have studied school. And the question arises which solution is offered by the Living Wall. What's our alternative proposal? How would we solve the current dilemma? That's how I dare tell a teacher and a teacher. And I'm going to be here today from the pay phone saying actually what's the real reason why this conflict ever happened. And for this real reason, during the entire debate today, he could not be heard at all. And that's next. The reason why teachers and teachers are fighting each other now is because in Croatian schools we have a dramatic number of students, we have a dramatic number of newborns in general, we have the worst, in 100 years there was no such demographic breakdown, and we have it all combined with mass emigration. We have a situation where parents take their children away from school and move away with them. And what happens in schools? Classes are being closed, a break-up that he used to have, for example. 28 kids, now she's got 16 kids all of a sudden. So the first thing to do is to get the number of students per class down. But at some point, these standards say it can no longer be reduced, now classes have to be combined. And then what happens? Then we have a situation where there's no more work for all the teachers, no more work for all the teachers, and then we have to, like, I remember when I went to Julia Klović elementary school, there was A, B and C class in eight classes. But now there's no class C, now it's just class A and B and we have a problem. We have teachers who have an extra professor who can't find a job. And let's start from the assumption that the solution is what the government is proposing. So let's start by assuming that the solution is to give teachers an advantage. Let's start by assuming that this solution will help the professors, I believe it will. But class teachers won't be able to get to work, and what will they do? I can't find a job in Croatia, where will they go? And they'll move out like a lot of other people. And that's the consequence, but watch out for this situation, if teachers could get a job, then teachers would move out, there's no room for anything. And so what's happening with us right now in society is that one group is plowing against another group. I remember when I read in the paper at the time, it was the title, that the collectors encouraged each other around the bottle. They both came to the same trash can, saw the same bottle and debate between them, whose bottle, who has the right to that bottle, and there was a fight, and they ended up throwing themselves around the bottle. Both in the same way and in which bottle collectors gather boards around that bottle, the same way teachers and teachers are now fighting over the workplace. However, I am sure, i.e. I know, that regardless of what was going on on the hand of one or the other bottle-gatherer, it was going on for the teacher or the class teacher, that basically we would all fall apart together if the current policy continued. Of course, the ruling does not care, of course, by claiming that the policy currently being conducted in Croatia is right and good and that representatives of the Ministry of Education assure us that they are doing everything they can to make a legislative reform. However, the basic question, even if the reform of the education system is made, raises the question of who will be taught at all. But why? Because our metal assembly in Croatia is unfortunately lagging behind and stupid in certain segments. It's advanced for certain people, but let's just say in the example of the textbook, it shows all the stupidity, the misery and the misery. The question arises whether, say, publishing houses, which publish textbooks, exist for students or students exist for publishing houses. Well, it's clear from the plane that publishing houses exist for students. However, we still have a situation, that children cannot inherit textbooks year by year, they have to buy new ones each year. Why? So that those who publish the textbooks might go hand in hand. Now there's a second thesis, now there's a fight between a teacher and a teacher over who's going to teach class. When Julia Klovic was in elementary school of A, B and C class, and not just A and B class, then there was room for one more at least one teacher who could have had his class class. Today, at the primary school of Julia Klović, the one who taught the C group, means if there were A and B groups and C groups, the one who taught the C group no longer teaches, you have, 1, 2, 3 and 4 classes. So 4 classroom teachers in OS Julia Klović, is less than ever today. 4 teachers 4 jobs less. And now what's going on? The legislator finds a solution that makes it even more difficult for teachers to hire, because it is given priority to teachers, but is it really possible that there is no place in Croatia to work for teachers and teachers? Is it possible that people are finishing colleges, and then they can't find a job and the answer is possible? And in fact, the answer to the demographic crisis, the fact that there are no children, the answer is that either teachers or teachers will still have to move out of the country. It means that we, or our country and our society, are in the spiral of death. And how serious she is, I'm going to point out one more time, so we can keep an existing no. People in our country, it is essential that each mother has more than 2 children, and we in Croatia, i.e. the average mother, must have 1.3 children. And not only does it mean from that sphere we have a drop no. We also have a dramatic eviction where, since our entry into the EU, 250,000 of our inhabitants have moved together with their children. So there's a collapse that nobody cares about. And you know what the parent's problem is? I'll tell you what the problem is. The problem is the parents want one more child or not, you know what the debate is? Do they have another room in their apartment? Do we have room for another child? And then they say listen, the apartment's too small, we don't have room for another child, we won't have another child. What the state should do is make it possible to make sure that people live in as large apartments as possible, that they have as many places as possible because as long as they're in small apartments, all the downs won't have a room anymore, there won't be room for a child anymore, and children won't be born. Teachers, teachers won't have to work. And this parasitic system that doesn't care about children or teachers or about the state or the people, it will convince us by the last moment that everything is in order, that there is no problem, that the policy of law is exercised, that it should be voted for by HDZ and the SDP. No way should they vote for those who want to change laws starting with the National Bank Act, who want to break a system that has brought both the state and the people into debt slavery and poverty. It is indeed said that the media is turning against the Living Wall and against me personally but that, nevertheless, our support is growing and it is one of the signs that people, or consciousness, are beginning to realize that the problem is not one another, that the people themselves are not in conflict, as all the media are trying to say, is not a real conflict between the initiative that is for marriage between men and women and those who say that marriage should have a right to this same-sex partners, but is a real conflict between the elite that is taking advantage of us and all of us on the one hand and the people, or the 99% on the other, who fail, suffer because of this policy. Oppens that pay interest of 9 or 10%. Those who pay the VAT of 25%. They pay the income tax large, which pays huge taxes for the pension system and then they can't live. And I remember, once I was in front of the Parliament, I ran into a couple from Malaysia, they came to Mark's square as tourists, and I liked them, I stopped them, I asked them, well, they did lunch, they said we didn't. I'm saying you want me to take you to the Parliament for lunch, they all say happy can and I take them here for lunch and we talk, I ask them how many years people go to Malaysia to retire, he says at 60. I look at him, I ask how so early, you know what the answer the man said, he says, so that young people would have a place to work. I look at him and then I remember that in Croatia the retirement age rises for men from 65 to 67, for women from 60 to 65, and what happens? Teachers and teachers who are already working will be teaching all the time, so they won't be able to retire and consequently they won't be able to retire sooner, consequently neither new teachers nor teachers will be able to be employed. So the whole policy is essentially about euthanasia and the disappearance of society, and the voice of those who shout out loudly that this elite is leading us to ruin, that the policy that is being implemented, that the whole system is upside down, that they are not being redecorated, that they are circusers, that they are unserious, that they have no solutions, that the right solutions are being offered by those who have taken us to ruin. Is it possible that those who led us into a crisis can get us out of the crisis? Is it possible to get us out of trouble that created problems? We believe not in the Living Wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91805	Thank you, colleague Pernar. We're continuing an individual debate. Next report is colleague Miro Bulj. My friend Mira Butt is gone. We'll continue with our colleague, Tomislav Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, fellow MPs. So before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools. Since it is a final proposal for a law that is largely identical, not to the end but largely identical to what was in the first reading, he says that I will not talk too much about the articles themselves once and for all but I will concentrate on some things that I consider important. So today, and even in the first reading, there was a lot of talk about reform, curricular reform, reform of the education system, etc. So we've been talking about education reform for decades, so we've had reforms, the last full reform we've implemented is probably Shuvar's reform, whose consequences we feel today. So reforms are good if we know what we want to achieve, if we have instruments to achieve it but not reform just works and I think that's something to highlight. So the reform has also been very politicizing with us over the last few years. It has been politicized by the shouting of political spectrum, mostly by what we traditionally call the left hand side of the political spectrum. Today we've also had these stories here in the Parliament where individual representatives on behalf of their clubs have spoken in fact about the great humanistic values they stand for and under whose cover, unfortunately, they're trying very hard to implement and push through the values that they are... It's their ideological position that isn't universal but is primarily consistent with their worldview. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was also once again discussed the right of parents to decide independently on the education and education of their own children. So I'll read some sentences here again, some provisions on the subject. Thus, in performing their responsibilities related to education and teaching, the state will respect the parents ’ rights to ensure education and teaching according to their religious and philosophical beliefs. So it's not something that's written in some party program by some right-wing party or some kind of clerofashists or something. It is a provision in Protocol 2 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which Croatia has ratified, which is in force in the Republic of Croatia. An equivalent provision exists in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So I see that in these discussions we often discover hot water. So, I've heard here in the Assembly on the other side of the assembly many times how it's unacceptable for parents to decide for themselves how to raise and educate their children, that they participate, that here today we've heard that we should only have their 4 walls, that probably in school an all-powerful, all-knowing state should decide everything, determine the values that children... etc. It reminds me of some totalitarian regimes from the past where it was the state that took over the education and education of children and then threw itself into brainwashing with precise ideology. So you need to be very careful here. I think that one of the start of a liberal state is precisely to allow maximum freedom for all members of society, and that the state interferes only where it really is necessary and that it advocates truly universal values, not some that are ideologically very specific. Unfortunately, we have a situation, I will say openly, that in the media and social spectrum of the Republic of Croatia and on the air, and very often in the public, the impression is that these values are some political parties that are universal. Which doesn't really surprise me. We know that traditionally, traditionally again under the quotes of the left is the one that most, the greatest emphasis is placed on education and sees it as an instrument through which they can push their political and social worldview. That's what some famous intellectuals like Mr. Zupa said, and that's quite clear. And it is clear that certain political parties are the ones who see through education a way to push through their ideology. What I don't think we should fall for is just to let it go. So, to leave it to the state to define ideologically how children should be educated, with which worldview and so on, rather than that particular area where we need to preserve this liberal state, this idea of human rights where, nevertheless, parents and children and individuals themselves can decide on it on their own, again in accordance with fundamental human rights documents. And here we don't need to be disturbed. And I certainly don't think it's the law where certain values, world-class or educational content should be prescribed. So educational content is something prescribed by a series of documents. This Law defines the legal structure of all these documents, from the curricula of the framework, the subject, etc. It's the way it's supposed to be. The idea that the state is prescribing educational content is that I think it's returning us to some of the times that we happily got rid of. As for the reform itself, I would also point out that the reform is being reformed and as far as the ideologies of the reform are concerned, the reform has become some sort of word that cannot be questioned. It's a reform, everyone who's against reform is backwards, like this, like that. However, I would say the exact opposite. Everything needs to be questioned. It is scientific, scientific and scientific methods that say that everything needs to be questioned. And in that sense, reforms. For example, curricular reform. So we have some kind of reform, some kind of proposal, we have a certain experiment that should bring its contents into part of the school, but then we need to see how it works. So we need to see if that really got the results or not. And in that sense, I don't think there should be any reform to be a sacred cow, but it should be questioned right now, and it should be carried out by the competent authorities. I would particularly like to highlight the national external evaluation centre for education which plays an extremely large role here. And also one thing that I think is very much needed by our education system, which is not very often spoken of, these are national exams. So we have a situation that you can hardly compare the state and quality of schooling, teaching in individual schools until you graduate from state school. So, we know the whole "A" inflation story where someone from some school might get an "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A"" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or "A" or And in that sense, I think that it is certainly necessary to consider introducing national exams, not only of national graduations but also of several national exams through which the results of individual schools and students from individual schools will be compared and, accordingly, look at the direction in which improvements should be taken. And I don't think that this method of constant review is bad, but I think it's something that our system needs and that nothing should be a sacred letter that isn't being questioned, but everything needs to be subject to control. As far as you're concerned, this part of the teacher. So it's a very complex subject. So a complex subject, as we know, has not actually been solved for decades and should certainly be approached seriously. The education system is not a system that suffers reforms over its knees, which suffers speedy solutions, solutions overnight, and therefore I think that every solution should be systematically and based on some evidence. Whether the difference in the number of ECTS in certain cases is sufficient reason to give some priority to employment compared to others, I am not personally sure. Let's say, what I think we need here is an analytical basis and to compare, if we're already giving one category of teachers an advantage over others to see which one teaches better, what are the outcomes of learning that we swear so much. So, what are the outcomes of learning students, taught by one group in relation to another group? But it's all kind of an analysis that takes time and takes thoroughness. What I don't think should be the message of this whole story is that some teachers are teachers, so teachers who have finished teaching schools, who are with enhanced individual subjects, are incompetent. Because if someone's competent to teach, he's either competent or not competent. To do a graduation here between different categories I think it's a very sensitive issue. I think that this is something that really needs to be discussed and that these are things that are not to be resolved overnight, I am sorry that I am sorry that we open up a public debate on some problems only when things come up in the Assembly, I think that this should certainly be expressed in previous stages, and that one liquid of modern society and modern rule of law is just that every solution is discussed through public debate and very concrete solutions, means not something in general, but very concrete solutions and suggestions to try to find solutions through public debate and to hear all these famous stakeholders that are talked about. Here's what would be my business, I say, there's a lot of problems, a lot of open questions, a lot of them talking in the debate. I am pleased that the public debate on education is more pronounced today than ever, but I think that this trend of transparency of public inclusion should continue to work on, that real solutions should be sought based on science, on empathy, on data, rather than getting them out of their heads because the education system is really sensitive. So it's up to our children and the future of this country and the people, and in that sense, I think we should all look forward to it. And, of course, in the public debate and in the debate in this assembly, be much more responsible than is very often the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91807	Thank you, fellow Sokol. We have three replicas at your hearing. Here you go, pal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91808	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I did not raise the line, but I did raise an injury to the Rules of Procedure, but also to Mr Sokol's exposure, but while Mr Sokol exhibited the minister and members of the ministry ate. I believe that such behaviour in the Croatian Parliament is neither cultural nor principled. When Mr. Pernar was eating pizza here, then you kicked him out of the Croatian Parliament, and here when the minister and her expert advisors honor themselves with the eyes of all parliamentary representatives in front of this institution, then no minister and their professional bodies had even warned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91809	I'm very sorry, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't see you do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, an apology. Let's continue with the replicas, Comrade Sagar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91810	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the minister has a good line, and then I don't see that she ate too much. Dear fellow Sokol, here's how we differ. If I were a minister, I'd end the state's graduation right now, the state's graduation is a symbol that no one trusts anyone else in this society anymore. Just from this difference of understanding of education and education especially in the OSH educational process, I am now asking you, should it really be in one class, which, due to objective circumstances, has slightly less students, in which the class, because of objective circumstances, is once again a level of the ability of these students, is it questionable that no one in that class has 5 in each class? Is it a measure or should the grades be adjusted so that they exist in each group, each class of those who are the best, and they are rewarded with an excellent rating, and those who are the worst with a slightly lower grade, and that is probably the difference in the thinking of the two of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91811	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91812	When we talk about national exams and national prom, we can discuss how they are conducted, how they make sense, given that we still have receptions at some universities, but first we need to see them not as a means of punishing someone, but first as a means of gathering information. You just don't have the kind of school you have today, but they're limited, they're not based on the information we need, and that's the way to look at it. So as an analytical tool from which we will be able to extract data and then adjust teaching and priorities and a network of schools, etc., we should not view it as something where someone will punish someone, make it impossible for him to enter college, but rather as a means to collect information, not to do what we in Croatia unfortunately often do, which is to highlight some normative solutions from our fingers without any analysis like this because someone got up on his left leg that day and decided to change the law, the bill or something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91813	Thank you. My colleague Željko Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91814	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sokol, in your debate, you have made a little bit of a mistake by saying that it is a liberal state, which is the role of the left, which is a conservative society, which is the task of parents, you are also a scientist, and it seems to me that you want to allow one possibility for parents who believe that the country is a flat plate and that contraception is forbidden by God that they must raise their children in this direction. So I don't agree with you, and I don't think you're right in this work because exactly the most powerful blow to the education system comes from conservative associations, marginal associations, churches, and it's only proof that the church, religious science is not a place in school, but a parish, and that education and education should rest precisely on scientifically justified facts. Therefore, both education and education for civil society and democracy is something that is crucial and should be the task of all of us without ideological bickering and banning something that is based on facts around the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91815	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91816	Thank you very much. So here's a colleague of Jovanovic, just an example of the manipulation I'm talking about. So that's what it's called otherwise... An argument, so you put a word in my mouth that I said that the country is flat or that I'm advocating that someone can teach that the country is flat, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] something that's a complete cartoonation, that's a thorough argument. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no one said it at all. And it's not at all a thing, it's something that's being questioned at all, so nobody questions whether the country is round or not, and whether it's supposed to be taught, but we're talking about some much more sensitive things that are primarily ideologically secular, which you and your contemplators are trying to portray as something universal. And so I ask you not to use these manipulations as we unfortunately see ourselves in public, because it is something that shares this society and therefore our atmosphere in the education system is unfortunately worse than ever, since demonstrations, cancellations, lawsuits, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91817	We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91818	Thank you, dear Vice President, for your esteemed minister with your co-workers. Here's today we're talking about something that really matters. I will look back at two topics in my discussion and one is education, another education. Well, education within the meaning of this law is said to be one of the principles, that promoting educational values is in line with the right of parents to decide independently about child rearing. So let's remind ourselves of what these are educational values. These are values that are consistent with general, cultural, civilizational values, human rights, children's rights to live in a multicultural world for respecting diversity and for tolerance and for active and responsible participation in the democratic development of society. So now I'm asking some questions, what's a raise? What's the point of raising? We're raising a man and whose responsibility is it? A parent or a community? What kind of man do we want to raise, and is it really just a parent that affects a child? And is the parent always right, and how is the relationship between the provisions that apostrophe the role of parents in the decision - making and raising of children at school? And the educational values that pursue man, which seek to create beings that are to be tolerated, respect human rights in accordance with cultural and civilization values, will be capable of living in a multicultural world and will respect diversity and, above all, be responsible for participating in the democratic development of society. The state is in charge of a respected parent's right to raise children. Should I always? What happens when that doesn't happen? What if a parent chooses an education that is contrary to those values? What if a parent actually hates everything that's different? And today we are witnessing a situation where 15-year-olds, 18-year-olds, 20-year-olds express such attitudes that are all but a reflection of a man of tolerance and multiculturality. And in fact, he must not forget and ignore the church's influence on the family. As we talk about human rights and values, the Catholic Church represents gender discrimination. The wife's place and role is hers in society, in the family, subordinated. Under the cover of the sanctity of life, the church commits violence against women because contraception is forbidden. As the church preaches morality in their ranks, priests exploit their children by exerting violence on them. And are these values, tolerances, respect for human rights and multiculturalism? And I could talk about it for a long and long time, but I'd like to touch another topic, which is exactly what I'm talking about today, and it's actually been imposed by Minister Divjak because she kicked her fist at the table and decided, it's going to be like I say, no discussion, no consultation. A unilateral decision because she thinks she can do it. And what happened? What happened to the Minister that you put class teachers with a reinforced class in an unequal position compared to teachers of the classes in question or other experts? Because how can you actually treat education like that? If you underestimate teachers and put them in second order, less competent teachers, what will students or parents have about them? What can happen? Well, maybe it could happen to you that your parents are going to sue you. Why are they suing you? That's why they're gonna sue the principal. Why are they suing him? Because he didn't provide the highest-quality or most competent teacher. Because if you said that a class teacher with an enhanced class could but only if others didn't come to the turn, so only then can he come in turn, does that mean he's less professional, less competent? Does this mean that this child is not educated under the same conditions as someone else who has been lucky to get a professor's teaching or an expert who is really competent in your opinion? I'm afraid that if we allow such a law to be adopted, such a provision and entered into the law could indeed happen very, very dangerous precedent and chaos. The only criterion can be expertise and competence, whether it's someone, or it's not. Either you are professional or you're not. Are the knowledge that really experts have non-teacher direction, whether they are actually better methodically, teaching than class teachers. Finally, I would also like to send a message that applies to both the first subject and to education, that wisdom and the skills of children are to learn how to learn. And how to know to choose, how to bring how to choose between good and evil. How to make decisions and how to respect yourself. It's art. A quality competitive teacher. And for a happily tolerated, multicultural child, we need quality schools, quality schools, and by this law, Minister, you're keeping us away from that goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91819	There are 3 replicas for your presentation, the first one is a colleague of Sladorov Marko, i.e. Marco Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry that the first part of your debate was once again colored by ideological debates, I don't think we need it on this subject. I think we should focus on the child, i.e. to the children who were just gifted. I'm going to mention one example now, to me it's just my school professor, there's one eighth at my school that's won imagine now three state physics competitions, chemistry mathematics, state competitions, the other one was from IT and another from another state competition and for the award from the city's education office he got 5 of the same books. So five of the same books. So it is a shame, therefore, one such student that we do not recognize in such students the future of this Croatia, I think it is degradation and its effort and work and I think we should talk about such things... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91821	Thank you, colleagues. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91822	Thank you. Comrade Sladolev, yes, today we are really talking about changes and additions to this law, and it is certain that we need to talk about what I finally said about quality school. A quality school means just that, focusing on a student, rewarding students, tracking students and creating in the finality of a good man.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91823	Replica No. 2 colleagues Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91824	Dear colleagues and colleagues, what I was listening to today, I thought that I was on a time sail somewhere out there in 1929, the Soviet Union, when this league was formed... Atheist, I would remind the young lady here, that at the best colleges in North America are Catholic colleges, if they hadn't completed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] science, that all the universities in Croatia, the oldest were formed by the Catholic Church and that the foundation of Europe were 10 commands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't you... who's totally extricating here is still the government here in the second row, which has annulled the moral ethical code, which produced a monster, a homo-Yugoslavier,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Read that book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This just goes up the curtains and I'd say, if you don't know how to work, you've been in power since '45. o... copy, copy other curricula and find out why no one was running into... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Before the Berlin Wall fell, they dug a tunnel in the opposite direction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91825	Thank you, pal. The next replica is a colleague named Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91826	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Alfirev. The first part I will not refer to, I once said, that the core, the decision of each individual or, freedom and that is the basis of liberalism, I mean modern liquids, so everyone can choose any education for the child. But what caused some storm in a glass of water, related to class teachers with a reinforced subject. So they have the right to compete... It's not a dispute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think if we talk about competences, we can play silly, so suddenly, everyone, it's all the same. You're telling me now that a math teacher, a pedagogical course, is the same as a graduate math engineer with a PMF. When competing for a job, where you're looking for extra expertise. And it's not the same, it's not the same implementation programs, it's not the same teaching, where they have in Croatian... The frame we brought here that they have the same... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it can't be the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91827	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91828	Thank you, Vice President. We're talking about that the Minister, who wants to introduce this law, has put teachers in an unequal position, class classes, with an enhanced subject, so that's a fact and writes "can." This means that she assumed herself that the other professions were more competent, and that is why I ask the question, does that mean that they are incompetent and why I am at all given the right to participate in the higher-class education process, that was the question, and in my opinion, they are highly competent, and they certainly have knowledge, and especially much greater and methodical and teaching skills as a child learns, how to convey knowledge and how to teach them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91829	Thank you. We continue with individual debates. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91831	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There is a second reading of the amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. There's no one between us, I'm absolutely sure that no matter which side of this assembly we're sitting on, who wouldn't want to have a good, quality education for their children. Who wouldn't want our children to have the opportunity to get the best they can because what's real world works in a way that thanks to all the information that's available, our children get information in real time that changes so quickly that someone who's a little older age as I personally find it difficult to follow, but they're doing great. And it's extremely important for a law like this to come. We at the GLAS Club are very reasonable and aware that no one has all the mechanisms and ways to make a serious reform that would be called a serious reform in a short time. We are aware of this and the fact that it must go step by step, we are also aware that some things should change over time and thanks to that reason we are always ready and supportive of the legal solutions that enable it. But now he's coming, but... All this went on the trail, as long as during the past day or two ministers decided to discuss it through the media with their coalition partner named Mr Milan Bandic. And where did they decide to argue on what law? Right on the Law of Breeding and Education. And what we already have a chance to see in several cases, that just when they are the most indispensable, we send out some arrows, there we develop populistism like the Istanbul Convention, therefore, on the subject of abused women or abuse in the family and what is the next topic where the coalition partners actually strengthen the muscles and show what they can or can't do with the law that applies to our children. And that's inadmissible. And it is unacceptable for us in GLAS that this very law is a recommendation to strengthen the muscle and conflict between the minister and between her coalition partner, who is called Mr Milan Bandic, who is here, but I assume that the press that was announced is one over. The same way when you look at the observations that were in the first reading and when you look at the answer a little, then there was a series of remarks and by the opposition was accepted by those who were technical. Those proposals that are not accepted when you go first, chapter one, there you see all the clubs that pointed to the fact and said get out of the provision Art. 1. something that speaks of education, something where you are actually entitled not to vaccinate your child. Are you right? The question is, do you have one? But when you don't vaccinate, then you have a certain responsibility as a parent. So parents have their own responsibility, the system has its own understanding and that's the way to look. And when it comes to school for life. The school of life teaches children, I, I like that name and the school of life teaches children how to learn, how to get information fast, how to use it and how to make decisions. When it was a free debate, then the esteemed parliamentary representative spoke of, she mentioned sailing. Among other things, my children went sailing for what reason? For a reason, sailing is an excellent method of education. On a small sailboat this size, this size of an optimist, children learn to sail. And then they come to the regatta. There are no trainers on the regatta, no parents who will help, he comes alone to the sea where waves are often bigger than that boat and he has to make his own decision, choose the fastest direction to, with the least, so those who are the best are always the best, choose the direction that you will quickly and first go through the goal. The same way I'm experiencing all the other kinds of work, and that was an excellent educational method for me. You have to make a decision and make your own decision. If you've brought it wrong, you'll bear the consequences yourself. Therefore, the Minister also makes certain decisions and, of course, makes the consequences for these individual decisions. So be praised, but bear the consequences. At a time when in life, especially when at such a function you want everyone to like, and here was the idea, so the whole law tried with the least effort to please everyone. When you want everyone to like you, you don't end up liking anyone. That they had been held back, so that you had thrown the provision out of the article. The first one we talked about, if you had put together some of this technical stuff, we at the GLAS Club would have said OK, it's not the best solution, but it's a step, small steps can go on. However, you left this provision and tried to explain that it was possible, and in fact, the Law on raising and education of children turned into something, and this is a mutual discussion of coalition partners on what? The kids. And that's inadmissible to us in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91832	Thank you, colleagues. We have one replica. A colleague named Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91833	I asked some questions this morning, Mrs. President. A dark Taritate who I didn't get from our minister esteemed, when we talk about how this system will produce our education system, what kind of people will produce, if we have a templatre before that. Do you know Mrs? The dark Taritate of anyone who had a fake degree in your party, I know some and got a degree there in the fresh mountain doctorate. Do you know anyone who cheated on the exams? Of course I was talking about the culture of cheating. What kind of man is this system going to produce? It's a key thing. In this House at least two words are heard individual responsibility, these are the foundations of every society. That's why you have 50, 80 carts pulled out of... When people throw those shopping malls, it's us, when are they gonna fix it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we don't know what kind of education system this country needs to have is a function, just rewrite, you have technical, academic crafts out there, people in high school are immediately separated, you know where the heads are going, you don't know anything, and in the end [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Answer, thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91834	Answer, thank you. Here you go, answer me, here you go. ... Excuse me, your time is up, your answer is up, thank you, thank you, welcome. [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91835	Thank you very much. I'd be happy to answer my colleagues if they understood what the subject was, but there's something I understand and something that I can really agree with and everything comes from my own family. You know, when you learn the words “please, ”“ forgive me, ” then in your life it is of great benefit to you and, say, when a parliamentary representative greets another parliamentary representative or when another parliamentary representative says “good afternoon” and this answers and says “good afternoon” and does not pass without answering. And this country will have a future when, for example, parliamentary representatives try to answer to other parliamentary MPs with simple words "good morning" or "good afternoon". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91836	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Comrade Sabina Voter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I think this law should live and experience a third reading in the Croatian Parliament because the differences that occurred between the first reading for which the green light of the majority in the Croatian Parliament and what is proposed in the drug reading were essentially very different. It is no wonder that such things happen but it is very rare for someone to decide in this way to change the content of the law between the first and the second reading, so much so that in the Croatian Parliament there was no position of a majority or pressure or a large part of the MPs that certain things should change. In this way, the public debate was also denied, we know that public consultation with the interested public should not be conducted when referring to the final draft of the law in the procedure in the second reading, and here in a very, very ugly way, in fact, substantial changes have taken place in front of us parliamentary representatives without public consultation, without in fact that a number of MPs actually criticised certain parts of the law, and this wanted to be seen in some way, some failure and wanted to correct itself, no, but we have 3 key changes in today's law compared to what we discussed a month ago and what most in the Croatian Parliament had given a green light a month ago. The first amendment refers to the choice of director, the second amendment refers to the way in which schools are employed, not only technological surpluses but all education-educated workers and the third major change relates to this building of the right of advantage in the employment of employees in the system itself. Let's do it in a row. When we talk about directors, someone decided instead of going through a strategy, I said that in the debate on behalf of the club, and that we have approached the systematic solution of the problem of insufficient quality management and management in schools regardless of this business or professional work because we know that our directors are still not only managers but are actually uniting these two segments and that we have followed the strategy, no, we have not, but we have decided now to say that we are going to choose directors and under some kind of transparency, we are introducing some additional competences. I've already said that, it's a little crazy, so we're saying that those who won't have knowledge of English, who won't be written in information or who haven't worked on some projects, means that those who finished their studies work 20 years at school, that they don't have competences? The labour law knows only, there are no necessary conditions, you add in the law from the word the school principal must meet the necessary conditions. I'm conditioned to be necessary. There are no necessary conditions and no necessary conditions. It contains a necessity in itself. Don't do things like this, it's ridiculous. Secondly, the Labour Act only knows the general conditions, one is a general condition and that is a minimum of 15 years and special conditions which are then one other category. And not now that we're derivating this Labour Act and now we're making up, uh, we have these necessary conditions, we have some competences. And now we say competences are you know, it's added value to you, it's going to be knowledge of English, it's going to be informative literacy and work on projects. And now I'm asking, why aren't there additional competences, for example, communication skills, dialogue-making and conflict-solving? Why is the school and teaching organisation not highlighted? Professional training in the field of management and management of school institutions? Knowledge of the way schools work and teaching etc., etc.? For all of this there are some additional trainings and people have actually acquired some additional skills that concern both management and human potential management, here they are absolutely unrecognizable. How can it come to that? So it can come to this, when you do things like this overnight, from a whim or if you are controlled by the intensity of some people who may not understand enough of the system of education. It's better if you didn't do anything than do this, because you're going to discriminate on people who may have some extra skills, I'm not going to say them on purpose, because in my opinion, all those in schools, competences are something that we shouldn't discuss here in general. Secondly, now all that school board is going to be new, what's already from the first reading, is this work plan, that is, some vision of the school in the mandate that is being competed for, and that's fine by me, but there's no way that's worth it, is that just as ranked as these extra competences? It's one of those plus three, four, and these three are going to dominate the first one, it's completely unclear. But the school boards will soon, in about two months, three, have to implement it in part, they'll have to score it, they'll have to rank it. And what he'll do. You're not doing well right now, so we have the bodies of the school, which are pleading in the election procedure... We know that the school boards, most of them have school representatives, it's a working council, it's a teaching council, that's a teaching council, it's a parent council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have the founders' representatives. And they've all been, so far, with these elements inside the school being obliged to represent the opinions of the body that betrayed them there. Now the minister says and the ministry watch, now the school board is going to take a score and direct those bodies, only two with the highest points. Is that equal access to a public tender, or is that a selective approach? And who's going to prescribe the criteria? The statues of the school, and you know who gives consent to the statues of the school, founders. And now you tell me about that you haven't extra politicized the whole thing, and actually probably because almost always the crucial council of parents, which very often the founders are furious, because they can't be politically affected, you've found one very elegant way, how to break them and break them, because you'll wake up, 7.6 candidates to 2 and then put pressure between those two and you can already set the criteria for those two, because you write them the founder writes them, i.e., gives consent to them. And with that minority of yours on the school board, you can do whatever you want, so you'll settle the competitions, actually, before the public competitions. It's chaos in the system and it's not good for the system at all. We go on, when we talk about hiring technological surpluses, so far the directors have not been obliged to employ technological surpluses, and there have been long-standing struggles between union representatives and the ministry however you like, we are now giving that opportunity, but, therefore, the director is obliged to employ technological surpluses, even in internal competitions, for which no public competition should be called. But, you see, these criteria will not bring about a state, that everyone will be equally available under the same conditions of school employment, but will be done by every county, or local administration unit, for themselves, through the state administration's office. Just like the way the points, which I apply to the directors now, not the same criteria, but the specific criteria, which each one will bring to itself. I think it can lead to more unequal availability and unequal criteria than to this justice system, which you said yourself here that we want to respect, and it's not good at all. On the other hand, by the Law on Croatian Defence, National Minorities, etc. A priority in employment, not when selecting a director, is given to these categories of people. You, by doing this, make it impossible for these people to consume their legal rights. It's not like that. Fourthly, EU funds, you allow directors to work on EU funds, in 30% of their working hours, for which you will pay 9% more. I've already said something about it, in front of the club in the opening presentation, but what's interesting is that the professors you're going to reward for work, the EU funds, you're going to still degrade against those who are going to be in the higher education and science system and the law you're preparing, because you're going to value it a little bit more anyway, which is absolutely wrong. You have not defined how much time a teacher or teacher can be involved on projects, you have defined just how much more he can be paid it is 30% whether it means he can be 100% employed on teacher or teacher funds. I'll end up with a lot more to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91838	Thank you. Three replicas, colleague Curai, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91839	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the first thing that rang my third reading. You said most of them agreed with the first one, the SDP was against this law in the first reading, so I absolutely don't understand this debate of yours that you're having. And secondly, I don't understand that the director of yours should be, not the director of the 21st century, so imagine, you know, English, working on a computer, or eventually you have experience in projects or conduct, but none of that. We're going back, not forward. We're going to introduce schools for the future, with directors from the past. If I get it right. And the third reading, you know what it will bring you. So with this law, we're solving Nikola Andric's elementary school in Vukovar, which has been waiting 20 years for reconstruction and now, let's wait again. And I don't know how many times there's been media attacks, drones, nobody reacts, everyone promises everything, and now that finally, we haven't done it in our joint government, too bad, maybe, we should. Now we're working, and now let's stall, let's have more of these students, another Mr. Let them be... God forbid someone gets hurt in there, I mean, it's not the place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91840	Thank you for your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91841	Comrade Curaj, I don't know what you don't understand, the profession didn't ask to go into these changes, most MPs didn't ask for these changes to happen between the first and second readings, and I don't know what part of it is not clear to you. I don't know where this came from, which lab outside came from, this directive and whose warrant this was. That's what I want to know. Secondly, if I were a director of the 21st century, but the directors of the 21st century won't be the ones who will be setting you up as a politician and also legally setting up a competition with some points where you will value the work on some projects, and you won't be able to manage this man's human potential, the skills of communication, the management of management of institutions, so that's where you're confused simply by pots. You'll only value something, and a bunch of other things you've actually forgotten about what it says about you not even thinking about the future that's wider, but that this is simply something that happened overnight for a single use and just one solution that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91842	Thank you. Here are colleagues Bedekovic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glasovac, I will just briefly look back on the part of the debate in which you spoke about the selection of directors, the procedure and the procedure. So it's about the article of the 40th bill, I'll just repeat it, and we've talked about it in the end and we've talked a lot about it on the board that the intention was to get better people, and we'll all agree and make it more transparent, make the procedure richer with different conditions so that we can get better people among other things, and that's okay. The suggestion, and I remind you, was and advocated somehow that approach to try to think about it, now that it is so, that the profuturio thinks about a rule that in a one-brave and in a more detailed way would determine exactly these additional competences so that we would not lose ourselves in the woods of all this and in the field produce confusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91844	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91845	Yes, with that we want quality people at the head of our educational institutions. There are wonderful people who really are images and opportunities, not only of the Croatian education system, but they can compete with some European and world trends, but also with standards, but in this way we will not get it. This isn't the way. Secondly, yes, I agree with you that in some way the profession should have seen what is yet to be valued, and not to leave this in the hands of every school to granate itself in any way that she knows what will be valued, or prescribed what she will value, she will have to prescribe how it will be valued, and then be exposed to the anger of candidates, parents, teachers, students, because she will not know why others are not valued, let's call it so competences, and only in these three. This will lead to chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91846	Thank you. And colleague Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91847	Dear colleagues of the Voice, when I listen to you I feel like teachers, teachers exist for themselves and not for students. In the SDP's mandate, the rights of teachers and professors were demoted, just in the SDP's mandate, hundreds of thousands of young people left our country and what was worst, I remember, then the SDP's password was before the election to hire 500 new people a week, to open 500 new jobs, and in fact what was it? There were 500 people less unemployed on the stock market, new jobs were gone, people were moving out. When you saw that lie you didn't tell, then you kept quiet, then you didn't care, then you didn't care, and now you're pouring crocodile tears at teaching staffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91848	Thank you. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91849	Thank you. This with 500 jobs wasn't from this campaign, but some time ago, we couldn't promise it because we were rational and we knew in what state we were going to inherit the state and under the given circumstances with the deficit, the recession we met, we were doing the best we knew. But under these terrible circumstances, we tried to save ourselves, so I'll just remind you when, unfortunately, all rights 4 8 10 were lifted to the loyalty of the so-called so-called. Services, we managed to keep it in our system, not in the form of supplements, but in the form of coefficients, and then we all increased the salary by 3%, mentors by 6%, advisors by 9%. I know it's not much, but it was the way we could do as much damage to most people. Some of us over 60 years old with a lot of internships and cut off, I apologize to this occasion, but it was just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91850	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Steve Culey's who's not here. After him, counterpart Rezimir Varda, the same explanation as for counterpart Culej, which means that he is now at an individual debate of colleagues Sonja Cikotic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91851	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the law with such content should be in the third reading because the additions and amendments that did not appear in the text that was in the first reading have been introduced. Changes and additions of laws, rather than lighting, improving and improving the regulation of basic and secondary education systems, make it a document with a high fog index. Here are a few arguments about this claim. Article 5(1) mentions other curriculative documents. What other curricula documents neither the minister nor her team, nor the parliamentary representatives know what other curricula documents they are talking about. Article 26 introduces so many obstacles, you are talking about a national curricular document, as far as I know only one document is currently a roof document, which was adopted in 2010 by a national consensus, a national framework curricula. Furthermore, you are discussing amendments to the law only so that other curriculative documents should be brought, only the national framework curricula contains value, objectives, principles of educational education. Why is it predicted that each, yet unborn document, has it all written all over again? Furthermore, you provide guidance in this article and provide guidelines for stimulating and adapting learning experiences. What are the guidelines for stimulating and adapting learning experiences? How can a minister and her team legally prescribe learning and teaching processes in such an empty sentence? What will teachers and teachers need to do according to this term provision? What should counselors or inspectors find in one school according to your provision? Furthermore, in Article 26, you say how that one level of education goes towards the ratio of groups of teaching subjects, how is it that some types and levels go towards the identification of teaching subjects? Furthermore, you prescribe that only artistic education must have a legal obligation to contain general educational subjects in Article 26. What kind of logic is that? Which of the users of this law will have and what is done and to what extent have the writers of the law respected the Law on HKO, in designing these provisions? The creators of this law did not contribute to the student load coefficient. No parent, student or teacher has told how many hours a child will be burdened with and constantly calling for the focus of teaching on the student. Where's the curriculum? In Article 9 paragraph 10, you say that a school institution included in the network can expand its activities in the implementation of the new programme. The author of the law does not distinguish the concept or program from the curricula, the curricula in question from the curriculum, and it is not clear in the article that the school can expand its activities by implementing the new programme. Does this mean that the school institution can expand its activity by introducing a new programme, for example? entrepreneurship, ecology programmes, IT programmes or also digital literacy programmes? Article 11 says that elementary school can run a regular alternative now not to list, programmes and other programmes brought by the minister. So I ask you, what are these programs brought by the minister? How the minister can adopt a programme and what is the purpose of listing regular alternative international programmes in language, etc., when the alternative programme is regular and when the programme is in language and the letter can be alternative, etc.? And then they're not insubstantial lists and order, they add that there are programs brought by the minister. It's like in the field of health care, experts in the provision of a vaccine type and then adding that the minister himself will determine the vaccine because he is, the minister. Or the Minister of Agriculture brings his pest dusting program to the orchards. In Article 27, you are saying that a list of the necessary qualifications of teachers and teachers can be established by performing curricula. I ask you, is this provision in accordance with the HKO Act? What, then, is HKO going to establish a list of the necessary qualifications of teachers and teachers to perform curricula? What's HKO's law for? What are the sectoral councils for, and what are the qualifications registers for? Is the Minister above the HKO Act? Furthermore, you in paragraph 4 means Article 27 that you are changing, you say the curricula may be common to the level of species in a particular level of education and an exceptional curricula of a particular teaching subject may be adopted. The curriculum determines the number of stop classes according to the teaching classes, not the form of curriculum implementation. The mandatory object is not the form of curiculum implementation as well as inter-entity content. The question is, what does it mean that the curricula can be passed along with the curricula of a particular teaching class? What is remarkable about this context? Is there an exceptional object, information, or is the curricula exceptional? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 28(3), we find a provision that educational standards make up compulsory teaching subjects. We don't know either of us or the law writer, I believe neither the minister nor her team is bound by electoral curricula, but if we ignore it, we can't ask ourselves how is it that in article 28, the school curricula regulates the course plan of the election case? How is it possible that the school's curricula is being arranged for you by the course plan of the election? Article 28(3) goes on to say, you have inserted this article into the school's strategy. So you're inserting into this article what this school strategy is, we can't ask what meaning in a series of these documents is actually a school development strategy, the law writer doesn't understand the purpose of education policy documents, school institutions, and especially schools as educational institutions. Furthermore, you in Article 29 of paragraphs 3 and 4 that are changing you says an experimental programme can now propose a school institution, and the ministry, imagine. And when the school institution proposes an experimental program, then the ministry applies, and it approves or disapproval of it. Does this mean that the ministry itself is proposing an experimental program, and who will then approve of this experimental program? You know, every experiment has its own legality and who in every segment will have control over the experiment if it's approved by school institutions to introduce this experimental program? In the 51st article you are changing, he says that for high school students, the number of hours will increase from 32 to 40 and says weeks should not exceed 40. It is the legislator's obligation to adopt a minimum educational standard, optimal educational standard and maximum. The provision with the verb "smile" and "not allowed" is used in the rules of conduct and professional ethical code. In the provisions of the law where everything should be crystal clear, it is said in the verbs “must” and “necessary”. The student of each class must have a pre-written curricula that brings the ministry, the school curricula is published in advance and all students should know what the school offers them in the next school year. Article 105(8) causes a number of problems and in paragraph 15, you add a sentence that reads "a list of qualifications can also be determined by the curricula of a teaching course". The profession does not know the term ‘curiculum of teaching subject’. All higher education institutions that produce qualifications from a particular subject have received a permit to implement such a study programme from the competent ministry, these are study programmes accredited by the Agency for Science and Higher Education. How can a minister disqualify generations with such a provision, now in this case of law, graduate teachers, to discriminate on them as a profession produced by the higher education system under all its legal blessings of education policy? The Minister did not only degrade them with one legal move but also for the second time in the same law added a list of qualifications can also be determined by the curricula of the course by leaving other higher education qualifications in suspense by introducing a concern about who will be at the mercy of the minister and her team tomorrow when she brings a list of qualifications with a particular curricula. This humiliation to teachers and teachers has not been orchestrated by anyone here as a minister. The university's been downplayed. He's not consulting anyone. How many high-schools are involved in her reform? How many experts are involved in her reform? How many sector councils are waiting on the sidelines to pass their mandate? It doesn't allow the waist to say its own, but to carry out marketing reforms. I must add that the HKO project has been funded from the Jasna Krstulović River, a professor who was the president of the National Council for Education and Education, for the sake of drawing up standards of interest and standards of qualification of teachers, so perhaps we should ask the president of the National Council for Education and Education, which is a qualification. Furthermore, for the purpose of the argument, among these amendments and additions to the Law as defined by the image of the objectives, structures and methods of adopting curricular documents related to the curriculative reform of the system of education and education with the observations that I have made, I think it is clear that nothing has been solved in the field of education and education reform. No change is in line with full curricula reform Which was protested 13 months ago. [[Intruder: Hajdash-Doncic: Sonja colleagues, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91852	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. The first is a colleague of Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91853	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Chikotic, I listened very carefully to your presentation. I think you've very well explained the need for this legislative proposal to go into third reading. However, I will now ask you for one comment. We know that they are currently enrolled in high school and that they are conducted on the basis of the success of students in eight years of schooling and that this crucial influence has the grades that students have achieved and, of course, there is a great inequality of evaluation and that we actually have a certain mess and uncertainty and that better students have problems with enrolling in better quality schools. Do you think that perhaps a small graduation as a good measure to evaluate that first degree of schooling as we have experience with high schooling might solve the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91854	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91855	My dear colleague, I agree that the great inequality of enrolment in high school is. We also have the inequity of grading students themselves in primary schools, which, of course, leads to a difference in the exercise of their rights to attend the school they consider to be best for them, for which they can build their professional career. Of course I'm in favour of a little graduation and her introduction. However, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the education sector in this field, we have not seen any changes that will actually affect inequalities in the entry and inequality of evaluations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91856	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91857	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Chikotic, you mentioned the purpose of making these legal changes. So their main purpose is to create a legal basis so that curicula can enter our system, and that's necessary because of this experimental program. There are some interpretations that this is not necessary, that there is a legal basis in the existing law, but I disagree. Now, how it's going to work in practice is a very good question. So, so far we've had a curriculum and a program, now entering the curricula and their relationship as clearly defined as I'm not sure. I think there's gonna be a lot of it here especially at the beginning of the discrepancy. It is particularly problematic for me that a really one system where the roof document, which is the framework of the national curricula, is not yet fully completed or reviewed. We also have a situation that some institutions such as the academy question only the methodology of curricular reform, learning outcomes etc. So it's a really good question how it's going to work in practice, but that's why we have a control system that will probably determine and evaluate the whole process when it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91858	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91859	Dear fellow Sokol, I only have one thing to tell you, and that is that this law of these amendments and additions should certainly be in line with the Croatian qualification framework which they are not relevant. I also have to tell you that if we really have some roof document, what it means to do hierarchicalally lower documents without that roof document. And I also have to tell you, how you're going to coordinate, why you're going to coordinate in some roof documents when he's not famous today. The only document that is in force today that has been reached by a national consensus is the one from 2010. So we need to know that laws are not promising documents, not futuristic fantasies. They should be clear and accurate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91860	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Tomislav Sagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91861	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to do in my debate, I'm going to touch the very part of this legislative proposal that wasn't in the first reading and it's caused a lot of controversy, and that's what I said in my reply to the minister that I'm going to try to explain why it's not a good solution in my court. Although I commend the minister for getting involved in this, she said for 20 years this problem did not care for him and now the minister has decided in this bill to deal with the solution. If you remember, in the replica, I said that this is coming down with your basic concept, but let's go in line. Therefore, the educational system in the Republic of Croatia and besides in all other more advanced countries in order to be successful must ensure horizontal and vertical passivity. But then there are injustices. We, when we ensure some kind of passing through the education system, then I will say it on a banal example, my nephew had to separate himself from his parents at age 14, and go to Zagreb for a technical railway school and finish it not later on as some student who stayed with his parents lived and later passed a little difference and got the same qualification, the same professional training as he. That's injustice. There are simply injustices in society. However, as this situation has arisen with the situation of teachers with a reinforced subject. Look, that's not their problem. It's a system problem. We were talking here, when we talk about education and the laws that you have proposed here, we are mostly talking about that the education system must be adapted to the needs of the labour market and the general development of the economy. It must be possible for our students, students later to be employable, to be able to develop an economy and not to educate those people who will not have a job, who will end up on the road tomorrow. And not exactly someone, I don't know, does it mention Minister Strugar, someone thought about it since there weren't enough teachers, so let's just tell the teachers about the course in question, let's go to these teachers who are at the Academy of Pedagogue, let's give them that, with the Master's degree in class classes, that they get more and the enhanced subject falls in that way they're actually a reserve in case there aren't any of these teachers and on that side these teachers were taking it in, they knew, yeah, if they're not in class class, then I'll be able to work in the course, but the system needs them, not the system, because the system should have called them and the labour market, because in some way they're a labour market, they're reporting and they're getting jobs. On the other hand, you have a bunch of engineers, watch out sometimes they tell me, so why are you talking about it? So I say what hurts me, they rob, they rob this country. Sometimes in Gaia in Slatina, you've been given an engineer to work in enlightenment, no way. Well, he had three to four times the salary in the economy. Our thieves in this state have brought today's engineers come to work for us at school because it's a safer, better-paid job. And now the worst thing I've said, the worst thing that can happen to the ministry, I'm not saying that you're guilty, you have a good intention, you want to introduce order, the first time you say it, and you're bold and you're going to put it into the law, but it's not good, now we're coming into a situation that we're arguing, I've seen this memo that the teachers sent. And they're calling me now, and I'm a graduate of pedagogical psych education because thieves robbed jobs when an engineer has nowhere to work. That's what thieves did. And you can't say now, so we're gonna do it with a new injustice, right? So these teachers call engineers, says literally the teacher wrote saying, someone remembered an engineer now he would work a little bit at school. And what's happening is that two groups of this society are clashing that aren't to blame for this situation. And there's my grudge, so let's go when that article has been changed, you should've waited anyway, why does it break over your back if no one cared for 20 years? If the problems are the teachers of information, the same thing should happen then, we'll see, if not, that's my advice, pull that article 29, there's time, get rid of it. Solve, you have rules everything. I don't mean it now as something, I said that I would support this law after the first reading, I don't mean it as blackmail to say it now, but it would really be good to think this through and not get into this situation so that people look at each other differently because the system needed them. Or what is, I think, a colleague of Jovanovic, I saw it somewhere and in the debate, someone mentioned, or maybe a rule is written, those who wrote up until the academic year that it wasn't worth it to them, but that it was worth it to all those who in the future, that people know when they enter that study with which rules it would be. Because look, if we analyze it now, then we'll agree very easily that it doesn't have the same, not all have the same competence. One is trained more in the pedagogical direction, one is the educational heart, and the other are trained more in this professional direction, but one is entitled. I can be an engineer for engineering and wonder why I can't teach math in elementary school. Well, I've been learning wonders of mathematics, integrated with changing boundaries, every miracle I've taught God and I've gone to exams, and now I can't teach, you know, because I can't protect those who have just studied mathematics to teach it. So is your intention to protect those who have been very educated, but these others have been educated. I am, not to spin like a dog and bite my tail, here I am calling you to withdraw that law, why to beat it over your back, let some time pass, let it get rid of it, I know it won't come to your shoulders again, but let the debate open again so let the best solution be made. As for the other changes, I'm going to say just one detail of why I'm most supportive, and here I congratulate you for not giving in to groups, especially these, I don't want to insult myself, I always come into conflict over these counties, the founder cities, a lot of them became founders overnight. I'm glad that you didn't give in to their influence, that it was still as much prevented that politics would just frame the school director, although in my opinion you should leave it even more to the chamber but this solution is better than it was before, yet most of them in some way have parents and the classroom itself and it's good that you didn't give in. As far as these changes are concerned, I welcome them, you have made changes regarding European projects, that I can and, from the first reading, it was not clear to me, it was then that the secretary and the accountants can, and you have added the directors here, and I think it's good and I'm only saying, a grudge from Article 29 that caused the most dissent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91862	Thank you very much. The next debate is those respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, for my respect for the distinguished minister with the co-workers. Here we are now almost all the way through noon and a few hours, and here we go in the afternoon to discuss amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. I must say that I have met with this law, with amendments and additions ever since they were in the draft, as a member of a special expert commission, or as a deputy prime minister, where we have really discussed the law on several occasions since it was in the draft and we have been grinding all these months of the law that we have through reading at the Croatian Parliament, which through some other discussions and discussions and we have received here, today what we have here. Personally and subjectively and objectively, I'm not fully satisfied with everything we've done with the law. Especially as far as terminology and all those terms are concerned, so if we go from the roof document to the bottom or if we go from below to the roof document either way. All right. Whether I'm personally satisfied or not, I think there might be a lot more work to be done and a lot better done. We have what we have and we're going to be here as constructive as we can be and say that it can always be better and that we've got it even longer and we could always do better. Now what I want to talk about. I won't, of course, talk about everything, and time won't let me. I would just like to look back on everything that happened in the period from first reading to second reading, or to this day with an emphasis on the lack of time and an emphasis on the lack of time for peaceful reading and peaceful discussion and, of course, with an emphasis on the fact that some things really failed to come to an end. I will therefore put an emphasis on the problem of Article 105 and Article 29, which complements Article 105 in paragraph 8, in particular these points that have been added so added to point (c) and I will say that I welcome when the Minister says that this amendment, and therefore by supplementing our intentions, has been to introduce order into the system. I am always in favour of introducing order into the system and I am always in favour of respecting the system and personally support every introduction of order. But not in this way, and not in haste, and not overnight and not with one pen move. This provision was introduced into this final version only in a second reading. We had it at the government on July 5th, and here's the other day on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, whose president I am, and here I am today at a plenary debate. And I agree with all those who say that the debate has not been conducted properly, that no public debate has been held on the issue means hiring teachers with an enhanced subject or a completed module. So we haven't discussed enough and we haven't cleared up this issue well enough. Because I'm asking myself a question. So if it was intended to introduce order into the system of this provision which I strongly welcome again, why was that intention not clearly stated but in the first reading we received a month ago? Why, then, did we not have this provision in Article 29, which changes Article 105? And somehow that in me raises the question why do we now have last-minute changes now, and we know, we're all aware that it's a complex 20-year-old problem, in particular? About the complex problem that we now have with not much debate with our teachers, teachers, we put everyone interested in speed as a provision. Then someone said yes, it's a 20-year-old problem and he's, he's had a lot of discussion about it over the past 20 years. I say, it was debated but controversial when an opportunity appeared, and never professionally, or focused, or articulated in a way that we should be able to solve this problem in a quality way. Namely, what are we doing right now, and how do we explain it? So when we compare the meanings of these two categories that are controversial means teachers of class classes with an enhanced course and module and all those who have not finished teaching colleges but have pedagogical competences then we say however, that we can also engage in the evaluation of how many of them the ECTS has, how many of these two categories have listened to the course of study, so we can say that, of course, this category that doesn't have teachers has the competences of pedagogue-psychology, but it's full of expertise and content while teachers are less. But then we can turn it upside down, on the other hand and say yes, but the teachers with the completed additional subject are garnered with pedagogical-psychological competences to colleges, ECTS. And then we can compare those two categories, evaluate, and then agree to actually the same interpretation of who's more competent. Every interpretation is subject to some subjective assessment. I'm not for interpretations, nor subjective evaluations, nor am I for taking over and standing in any side. This problem can only be solved in a way that is well discussed, quality, articulated. Someone here mentioned not only one colleague or colleague, but more of us Croatian qualification framework. Yeah, we brought it a while ago. We are all referring to the Croatian qualification framework which is just and intended, so it is also a tool for determining the competence profile of standards, therefore, standards of qualifications, standards of interest. So that's the way. Let's define, we already needed a standard of qualification and a standard of interest in teaching professions. By the way about two years ago, 600 thousand kuna were therefore invested in the project Croatian qualification framework financed from the European Social Fund of the Faculty of Teachers in Rijeka for making standards. You seem to be my colleagues talking about it. So it's precisely for making standards of qualifications and occupations, so teachers, and that's valuable data that we can start with. This way by breaking over your knee and making a decision overnight that we got? We've got dissident teachers. We won a protest outside. We've got our colleagues and colleagues, I say, because I'm an educator, I've spent my whole life verticalizing from above to the higher education system and we've got one story that's not good. Instead of having motivated teachers who are spine and will be the backbone of our reform of the education system, we have teachers who protest us. We've got teachers we've had our differences with each other. We have teachers who argue with engineers like someone said or with other professions that don't have teaching studies. It's just one situation that's not good. I don't think we can and we don't have to solve this way, and I'm not into this kind of problem. And since we're all already in the semi-footed and pre-footed fever, and we're all waiting for the result, I'm just going to try to say it in a football dictionary. Minister, we got a yellow card this morning from 9am to 11am. So let's try to fit on the ball a little bit, think about this problem and solve it qualityly, not breaking over the knee with an instant solution overnight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91864	Thank you. We have replicas. The first is the respected representative Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91865	Dear fellow Bedekovic, you yourself said you were an educator. Right? And the Dean you're there in our Virovitica-Podrava County and you know the system of higher education, science. You know that through the board, because you're the board president. I am interested in your opinion on Article 105(8), that is, paragraph 15, which says: “The list of qualifications can also be determined by the curricula of the course.” Do you think that the legislator can place not in this place, but in another place in the law that the list of qualifications can also be determined by the curricula of the teaching subject? So what's our study program for? For what, then, is our great accreditation of the Science and Higher Education Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91866	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91867	Look, maybe, right now, the topic of the debate is the Law on Raising and Education in Elementary and High School. I'm sorry, it seems to me that you've mixed up "breeds and apples" because you're talking about applying the provisions of the Law on Raising and Education in elementary and high school to a system of higher education where you ask why accreditation, why study programs? So this, this provision does not apply to the higher education system. You understand? It's just, no, no, no, it's only about primary and high school education. We can talk about this later. Here, I don't think we understand each other. Either I didn't understand you, or you did. But we can talk about this later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91868	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be colleagues of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So the individual debate is the next respected representative of Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91869	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that the main problem of Croatian society is the decline of the number of pupils in primary and secondary schools. The fall reflects a reduced demand for teaching staff. So the professor needs less and the student needs less. You had a situation where the number of students was, say, in vocational schools in 10 years, halfed from 21 grand to 10 grand. You have a problem falling students in elementary schools and high schools. These problems are not being treated at all. It is simply through this debate that the conflict between professors and teachers has been potentiated, although neither teachers nor students are to blame for the situation in which they cannot reach their jobs. And I can't get to my place of work, not because it's the law that regulates who will have priority in employment because even if the system is simply such that they don't need these people. We don't need those shots. That's what's causing the problem. And we don't need them because they don't have kids, they don't have anyone to teach. Because even if teachers were to go hand in hand, if it were done the other way around when they were given the advantage, then the teachers would be out of a job. If you give teachers an advantage, teachers lose their jobs. Why? Because there's no room for everything. Both the legislator and the Ministry of Science are not treating the problem at all. On the contrary, Minister Divjak, who pretends to be some kind of expert, that she is a non-party person, that she is objective and not subjective, etc. She doesn't treat that question at all because her children don't matter. It's important to her that she's a minister. She's got her own chair, she's got her own salary, she's got state official status, the government canteen has the right to eat for it in a special place, they're courting her there, she's living on a high foot, she's got her driver, and when you tell her the number of students is down by 100,000, there's no kids, the parents and the kids are moving out of the country, she's gonna come down with her shoulders and say ha listen, she's not even gonna get their shoulders down. You know why? Because no one's even gonna ask her about it from the media. So you think a reporter wants to know? Well, no. Croatia's television is not interested either. Croatian television is in service of this system that goes after us to disappear from these areas. Croatian television does not want to talk about this problem of demographic breakdown. Every criticism shuts down and hides. Emphasis is placed on trivial things. During the debate, a colleague named Shkibol reprimanded the minister for eating cookies and sharing them with her colleagues. She's waving that she's not, but people saw her eating cookies. So you ma'am can wave your head off until the day of judgment. But what do I want to tell you? Eat those cakes or not, eat me pizza or not. That's not the important question. The important question is that we lost 100,000 students and that there is no debate on the matter. That's an important question, and the media doesn't care. The media has a fixation on trivial things, on things that aren't existential, on things that no one's life depends on. There's protests going on. I remember the curricular reform. Ten thousand people on the street. For what? What good is this reform? Who are they going to teach if there are no kids in school? Who? No one and that's the core of the whole problem. The state doesn't do anything to solve this problem. The departments aren't doing anything. Teachers and teachers, they should panic first. So class teachers and teachers should go to the media and talk about government policy, because since the entry into the European Union moved 250 thousand people, we no longer have anyone to teach. This madness needs to be stopped, but they keep quiet about it. And since they're silent about the central issue, they're dealing with the peripheral question, and that's the question of whether they're going to raise one or the other. However, it is a particular interest in them. 95% of our country's citizens in their pockets and pockets. They don't care if they teach a teacher or a professor of history if one and the other is essentially qualified for it. Unfortunately, however, neither teachers nor teachers touch the central issue, nor does the Minister touch the central issue in this debate, nor does he discuss the issue. She doesn't care about that, and you don't care about your distinguished colleagues, unfortunately, to the vast majority. And you know why? Well, because at the time of the SDP when the SDP was in power, we had the escape of people from the country. The same problems we've had with HDZ now, we've had them before. And then, of course, the SDP won't talk about the problem of eviction, the problem that children aren't born, that people are blocked, etc. because all the same problems were in their government. They've shown that they can't get rid of them. Einstein said the problems couldn't be solved the way they were created. Only by moving away from this way can the problem be solved, but in Croatian society there is no will to discuss. There's no will at all for perception of the problem. Why am I telling you this? Because to solve a problem, it needs to be perceived as a problem, and we don't. We assure ourselves there's no problem. And what people don't realize is that the problem of a single aspect of society or a single sphere of society is a problem for society as a whole. All problems are interrelated. You can't even see the problem of moving out particularly. The fact that children are not born is not a phenomenon for themselves. It's a bigger story. This is a failed monetary policy, a failed tax policy, a failed foreign policy, a failed tax policy. But does the state do anything to solve you or remove you? No, I don't. Does the citizens care about getting rid of these problems? No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Citizens are simply hypnotized I would dare to use the term hypnotized. They're just not aware of reality. They live in a parallel reality, in a reality where the biggest problem for our country is whether we beat England or we won't beat England, whether we play with France or play with Belgium. However, regardless of who you're playing with, it's an irrelevant thing for our society, because tomorrow or in a week the whole story will be gone and we'll face all the problems we've faced before and after the football championship. Sports or the successes of football players, although they are beautiful and I congratulate them on the topics is unfortunately used to distract attention from key problems. But not just sports. Sports is just one of the topics that tries to draw public attention from an important question of no importance. The important question is the role of the central bank, and nothing is taught in schools. Why we're like a country in debt slavery, nobody cares. Why 330,000 citizens are blocked, no one cares. Why she's a bitch, why she's indifference, and no one's interested. The process of making money, who cares? No one. There's no interest in the subject. It's systematically stupiding students, but unfortunately not only students, but professors, because in order to have a stupid student, you should have a stupid professor. Teachers don't object, and teachers should rebel with them because of a teaching program that makes idiots out of children, not free-thinking individuals, people who think with their heads, people who are critical. You turn generations of students into generations of parrots, parrots who don't have their own self, parrots who will leave their country tomorrow instead of fighting for its progress, parrots who will support the system that destroyed them instead of fighting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91870	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91871	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk today about the amendments and the addition of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school, we must say as we already said in the first debate that we expected a lot, and a little bit in this sector which has been taken over by HNS as though, not this HNS which we all today support, or the football team in Russia, but HNS is one small political party that has been harassing Croatian voters for many years. When they took over this resort and I remember the pompous announcements – we will perform miracles, I am doing it because of the future of my children wrote at the moment of insomnia by the president of the party at two o'clock in the morning and destroying his mayoral office in the City of Zagreb candidate for mayor. And what happened? It's been a year and two, three months what results do we have? Do people even feel, so as a parent here last time I also said it, I'm ashamed to see what conditions our children go to schools in the center of town where the windows fall off, where there's no hot water in winter so they just don't have the most elementary conditions we're talking about. So we live in a country where some ask the Constitutional Court whether it's constitutional to learn information at school? Is that supposed to be banned, maybe? So all of this makes one society and a policy that is responsible for public influence or for creating a certain atmosphere, it appears to be totally missed. I'd say if we're going to be kind to the minister, it's not even her fault. It has somehow become a toy in the hands of the Croatian People's Party. So, they use it as I would say a picture and an opportunity, and basically behind it is nothing but what is best for HNS, which is clientelism, combinations and all that at this time prevents a real reform of education from being implemented in Croatia, to finally adopt the curricula, to do what has prompted 50 or 60 thousand of our citizens in the City of Zagreb to go out to Ban Jelačić Square. It's all gone, and today it's ladies and gentlemen 11.7.2018 and two more years until the end of the term. What do we have in this segment? We have nothing but a law that technically prescribes certain things that are more clearly defined in the process of enrolment or release from one school, so it says – the prescribed way of stopping attending the course of the electoral course, etc. So one law that certainly does not give hope for what all of our parents in Croatia today are expecting, which is that we will have an education system that will prepare our children in quality for all of those challenges that await them in the future. As for this, it is clear that education and education reform is a key reform in Croatia. But unfortunately, we didn't get the key political power to implement it. Because, you know, when we lost Barisic that's what I am right now talking to our colleagues said – ha, we thought that as soon as Ante Cacic left the football team of Croatia that when she came here, Minister Divjak would be our Zlatko Daliæ in education. But not to play in the semifinals of the World Cup, we cannot even qualify for the European Championship figuratively speaking. I wish Minister Divjak were essentially Zdravko Dalic transferred from the football world to this sector that is 100 times more important. And that's where Pernar's right is when he says 100 times more important than what we think is most important today, which is to go through England, a thousand times more important. And I'm sorry that it just doesn't happen that way in the Croatian government. The piano of action, fairy tales, writings of Vrdoljak and others will not help us, and I, by the way, will be interested in it as I am in how the work moves between Zadar and Ugljan. Here, it's about that level of interest to Wreath's education. He's more interested in staying there in Janaf, and what's really his interest is that a little bit of energy still controls it together and sees what he can do for who knows who, no. So, on that side, Mrs. Divjak would give us, and we'd also give positive comments and support to play as our team did after Cacic, but unfortunately that doesn't work, because I don't see it in everyday life. There's no difference, no difference for our children compared to a year ago and a few days ago when you came for the minister, nothing. Of these I say technical laws, whether it's going to be professor this or that, it would be better if you'd fought to have our teachers and teachers 15 or 20% pay higher than they have. It would be a real struggle for you, and it would help the entire education system and our education much more than these technical laws help, because tomorrow they won't have anyone to educate our children. They said good people, people from Croatia are leaving. Why would a teacher or a teacher stay in primary or secondary school in Croatia, educate our children for not knowing 600 or 700 euros when he can do another job 200, 300 kilometers from Croatia for three times more? Create conditions for people to work here, pay them adequately, no matter what with now we can go back to the history in which these salaries were defined before, but the fact is now that we boast of surpluses, that money has, give money to people in education. Let people make money and have a feeling they're paid, so I won't even say fair because it's impossible at this point to pay, but at least make 15, 20% more than they have right now. If you could do it by the end of the term, you'd do something. But we're here talking about how whoever's writing an election paper, how they're transferring from school to school, technical stuff, and the core doesn't exist while they're writing us constitutional suits, whether information needs to be taught in elementary school. And to recapitulate again in the end, I would love to, and trust me, everyone here in the Croatian Parliament to make some results, but believe me, more and more people in Croatia are skeptical of that. I don't know if you're being held back from the HNS, the Croatian People's Party because maybe he's playing the Vrdoljak patch on you so he doesn't give you the opportunity to do what I have to do today with a football dictionary, I hope nobody gets angry, so he won't let you do what you really want, but this isn't going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91872	Thank you. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91873	Dear colleague Maras, you gave a great speech. I agree with every sentence you've said. You said what was wrong on the one hand, on the other hand you said what had to be done and it didn't work out. However, it should be borne in mind that you were the minister of the SDP government, that just at your time when you were in power as the ruling party, you had the president of the state, the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister. All this stuff you've been complaining about, the question to you, why didn't you do it yourself? Because with the criticism of someone's poor work, and you don't see that you haven't had any results yourself, we won't get far away from where we are right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91874	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91875	Thank you very much. Ivan, you're a young man and you should always believe in better and give people a chance if they ever make a mistake, so don't go back in history and say that you're wrong, but do something better. So it's not the point that we're always going back to some things rather than trying to see how we do better in the future, although the situation is incomparable. When you have that, Mr. Shucker knows well, after 25 billion deficits in 2011, today you have a surplus... I beg you, Mr. Chairman, you have a special weight today because you're the leading man in the country, we've read that. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Please do not throw from the bench.]] Restrain Shuker, keep Shuker from throwing him off the bench. [[Intruder Rainer: I didn't, no.]] Because today it is in your unit and the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and President of the Parliament, so on that side You can do it. [[Not really, but good.]] What I was about to say is, 25 billion deficits compared to today's surplus, you can make Ivan, a lot, a lot more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91876	Thank you. Next... Let's not go from the bench, let's not go from the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91877	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Maras, I must admit that I feel important and HNS is still an important party because you haven't had one debate yet, and you haven't devoted half of your debate to the HNS. So we're still good, we still exist, and you're worried about it. I'm not going to talk, I'm not going to tell you the problems you have in your party, but let me look back on this part right now. We were together in the government, right, a lot of things we tried to do, we changed two selectors. We didn't quite make it. But when Minister Divjak came to the head of the ministry or our selections, so far, no match has been lost, and I'm sure it will continue. That some things are visible but that they can't be visible in a year, but that it'll be done, it'll be done. And that he has full support for HDZ and HNS but not just us as coalition partners but I believe, and all those who want our children better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91878	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91879	Mrs. Makar, you're right, I'm worried about what HNS is responsible for education but it's not a problem that I'm worried about, the problem is that the people of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, that's the concern we share and the vast majority of Croatian citizens and on the other hand it would be good if it wasn't so and that the HNS there is no responsibility because it is seen that in a year and 2 months. Nothing happened except that some of the energy companies got caught up in. So nothing in education has happened in particular and as far as the game goes, believe me, I said in a year and two months. I don't see any difference, so I have a feeling I don't, maybe it's true that Mrs. Wilderly hasn't lost one game, but the bigger problem is that no game has ever played. I wish she had played the game, but I don't know why she doesn't play what she's supposed to play in her place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91880	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91881	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maras, so I wish they were just technical, even if they were just technical changes and if it's such a law, I'm afraid there are some things that they can do and the damages, so that's more, that's worse. And instead of what the minister says she's going to introduce order, I'm afraid that in fact you yourself have said all of this is a big mess. And how else to say it than to make a mess among class teachers like the one that's already made a mess with educational rehabilitationists because where to save and where to make the biggest savings than just for educational rehabists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91882	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91883	It's a special problem and I also met with him because I know a few and I know people who worked in the class where my child goes. Instead of giving it the greatest support and help, we're basically doing what's wrong and that's saving where you shouldn't be saving. But people in education need to be invested. And as I have already said and Mr. Schuker knows very well, 25 billion kunas in 2011 that we inherited from the HDZ government and today's situation where we have a practical surplus that Minister Maric is allowed to boast every day, allowing himself to invest in people who work in the education system and what you said earlier should not be saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91884	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91885	Dear colleague Maras, there is not much movement in the Ministry of Science and Education, what is intensively done has been shared. Today, they share and encourage a fight between teachers and teachers in chambers, tomorrow through some legal provisions they will be those children who, for example, do not want to listen to parts of health care, so they will probably be in the hallway if they fail to organize classes, etc., etc. And what's still unique to the HNS, so it's not devoid of a minister who's as non-partisan, you see now this complete curricular reform of which there is no integrity, but it's now some hybrid reform of the minister, it also shares children in three counties, in Krapina-Zagorska, in Međimurska and Varazdinska. There is no HNS chief or mayor without the school in its municipality or city receiving an experimental program of complete curricular reform that will carry the equipment of the school and other things. They're rewarded because they're [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91886	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91887	Well, Mrs. Voter, it's not just in education, it's in construction. These HNS people are incredibly good at writing projects for the Ministry of Education and Construction where the ministers from the HNS quota are. All the commissioners, almost all the commissioners who report pass and win. Now that's what we have to fight and that's why I said it was a dangerous situation and that I'm worried. Mrs. Macar made a very good detection. I'm worried as much as I can about this, I'd say not transparent management of these ministries takes time in our government. Unfortunately, it looks like this with teeth to stick to most of it will probably take another two years. So you're absolutely right, where the HNS is right there is immediately and suspected of intransparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91888	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the science and education minister, Blaženko Divjak, will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91889	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I thank all those who have participated in this debate especially those who have made a substantial contribution to these legislative changes and who have not used this Assembly speaker for things that have nothing to do with this law or education. However, I respect all those who have debated because it is, of course, a democratic right and I am not going into it, but I will answer only to what has been said and is related to the bill or at least in some sense related to education. The truth is, in the past year at the Ministry of Science and Education, we've done a lot, some people aren't happy about it. Some people are not glad to have information in all primary schools since the fall as a mandatory subject and a new curricula everywhere. Some could have introduced it earlier, but they didn't, so we're going in with it, we're equipping schools, and in that sense we're going to do it anyway. The question of how would it be if in some other way this system had been arranged, this team at the Ministry of Science and Education. The second thing, the complete curricula reform has suddenly become a sacred grail. There's no holy grail called complete curricula reform, there's an excellent foundation on which we continue to work. The documentation we improve, the international review we take into account, all the elements of international comparisons we also take into account, which have not been taken into account previously. So the principle of continuity but also continuous improvement is something I personally advocate and I think it's important. We can use this assembly when we talk about the law that, here's a little bit of a potential difference between parties, but I'd really like to see it show that it's not actually done in a year and it could have been made about curricular reform. Of course, some say we're going too fast and some say we're going too slow, but the truth is that we're using all our domestic experiences, using international experiences, and going in a way that provides us with the use of what's prepared but not in a non-critical way, but in a way that we're looking at it, that we have an evaluation, and that's how we're going to get into the experimental program. The experimental program will not serve to cement things in the experimental program, but according to just as it is lawfully imagined that we are experimenting with different things in the program, not just curriculative documents. Because if we really valued the success of some of the reforms on file alone, we would have succeeded long ago, but that's not the point. The point is to change the essence and method of teaching that's been talked about today and the method of evaluation. And all of that, the basis for all of this we put into this law. At the same time, at the same time, we have changed and, at the same time, we have changed the Law on Professional Education, and at the moment there are 41 proposals for regional competence centres in five priority areas: IT, engineering, electrical engineering, meaning these areas of hospitality and tourism, healthcare. So in this way we will enable the withdrawal of a billion kuna from European funds, it is now in the process as is being implemented and the curricula reform in a way not only to use funds from the state budget but we have written, we have written the project and received 155 million kuna from European funds and European experts to work with us on this. It's forgotten. I just now mention what may be most visible and attaches itself to primary and secondary schools, I'm not talking about higher education and science because it's not about today's topic. And in that sense, here I would invite you all to help us with that. Because it's not the idea that this reform is being implemented in a way that when some other political option comes to power, it says that this is not good but that it's being implemented in a way that we really have the strength to discuss and publicly open a lot of issues that were on the table but to open up on the international stage so that we have opened these curriculaes to the international public, it has never worked before. And we are seriously considering all the comments that are coming and therefore we will take seriously everything that is positive and where we will see the shortcomings related to the implementation of the experimental programme itself. Of course, if part of it was a relief of school bags, we were talking about it and we had an example of the school bag here. Well, I agree, a bag like that isn't suitable for a student. So we need to reduce not only the physical weight of the bag but the amount of facts that enters the class and that, where students are actually expected to simply reproduce that material and then get grades, that's not the point. And actually, it's a matter of curriculal reform in that we change the paradigm. The paradigm where the student is at the centre, where teaching is quality, where teaching is such as to ensure the outcome of learning to solve problems, critical thinking and in this sense this law, I am sure gives a good basis. Perhaps we should go back a little bit to this topic that was very relevant today to the class in question. Who can teach the class in question, the class in elementary school? We had a situation so far that it had not been considered that at some point 20 years ago, or we were all aware of it, and we were all under the rug that at one point 20 years ago, at the initiative of some from the school, it had entered into this one dangerous experiment that had not had its certificates in nor in any other practice that could be applied there. Today, we must at least put on the right thing to do, so it's good to open up that debate and put it into a relationship, which means when someone graduates from the Master's degree study. So he has the exclusive right to teach, to teach in class class from grade 1st to grade 4th and there's no competition at all, there's no one else who can do it. And in that sense, there is no discrimination. Whoever graduated from class can work in class class and has no competition at all. The other thing is that if someone who finished class and ended up listening to something from one semester from another class where they are now, so how to take these competences into account and compare it with someone who finished PMF, then he is a professor of mathematics, physics, biology or completed the Faculty of Philosophy, so he is a professor of Croatian language etc.. So there's no choir that there's a big difference in the outcomes of learning, but just by observing the outcomes of learning these subjects and, of course, by the volume of these objects that we measure in NCTS. And let's not forget that even so far, class teachers as teachers in the classroom have not been recognized in the law at all. The question, therefore, is to what extent has the status so far been retained in the legal frameworks. So we've done two things with this proposal. First of all, we recognized teachers of classroom classes who have some enhanced subject as possible teachers in primary schools in higher classes, for the first time, as well as primary, primary education masters, means what is now called the one, or which is acquired after the introduction of the Bologna reform. So that's very important, for the first time it's been recognized in law. Thus, the status of teachers is now stronger in this regard. The second thing is that we in the system have two other categories of speeches that are also satisfying at least minimum criteria, I don't know now, whether I'm talking further now or waiting for you to do yours. Well, that's after, but I didn't eat the cake, but chocolate, so, uh, drinks won't do me any good after chocolate alone. So when we think about alternatives, which would mean, in the higher classes of primary school, who should teach mathematics, physics, Croatian language, information, so math professors, physics and information, means that they have completed teaching studies in colleges, which have credentials, that's the first choice. I don't think there's any dilemma about it. However, in some cases, because of the absence of such, it is certain that it is instructive and that it is good to take class teachers with an enhanced subject, as it is instructed to use croatists who have completed research or mathematicians in the research direction, who then, for one year, additional teaching competences, receive the minimum teaching competences, the profession is not questionable to teach in higher classes of primary school. And that should be made clear what two other categories are. The third category has already been in law related to pre-graduates, i.e. undergraduately appropriate studies with teacher competences. I think that in this sense we really explained today what the situation is and how this contributes to the solution. There were different questions, is someone being discriminated against? You can't discriminate against a class teacher, in a way, to say that he can't teach class anymore. First because class classes can teach forever, and secondly because we have recognized this possibility for the teaching in question, to work in the course in question, with an enhanced subject. There was a question, why, the National Council for Education and Education did not answer on this issue. It's interesting, but it came to that. Here, I have before me the opinion of the National Council for Education and Education, related to justification, establishment, integrated, pre-graduate and graduate university study with the module, with this module from 2014 The National Council says and is signed by the National Council President, Professor Jasna Krstović, who was also mentioned here today, that this is not how the programme should be established. It means that there is much more work, coordination and that it is about jumping out of certain higher education institutions and that this is not an acceptable solution. This is from 2014. So, I only repeat for those who have asked the question and so the National Council on this was manifested and unfortunately not in a way that would contribute to those who led the debate. It is also true that they are also made according to HKO, i.e. they are working on standards for class teachers, but there are no modules there. So the standard, if we were to process this topic, only according to the Croatian qualification framework, then unfortunately I would say, and I pray that it is undermining, then unfortunately at the beginning, we would say that the professional part that is now, in an enhanced case, does not satisfy the standards. But, well, we're not going, with this solution in a way, to say that those who work in the system can't do it anymore, they have to do it, because first of all, some of them have achieved the level of learning that is needed in the standard, and that will also be verified. So we need to recognize on the one hand who is in the system, to protect those who are in the system, on the other hand to make it clear to future employment what are the priorities and the third ones, which is why I started today's exposure, which is that we need to enable and advance all the categories that we recognize in the system so that I can carry out this teaching. I'm now saying that if we put in law and we recognize class teachers with a reinforced class, that they can be the teacher in question, then we need to enable them to develop. And then we have to give him a professional exam from that case. From that class class class class. And that's something that can be, and surely there will be a consequence of recognising it in this law. Of course, that we can talk about now, what are the priorities that we see in employment, but I think we've talked about this alaboration enough. So it's clear who's first invited and who really meets all the conditions to be the teacher in question, and where we have variants to meet those in the wind that are in the inputs enough but that they need to be allowed to grow and develop further, but I think continued improvement, that's what everyone's invited to do. I'm going to look back now, on a few things that were in the debate itself. First of all, let me ask you something about choosing a director. The truth is that the choice of directors, as such under this proposal, is more transparent than it's ever been before. So the work plan is handed over, it's estimated if someone meets those legal requirements, which come down to whether he's graduated from the relevant university, whether he's got an eight-year internship in the education system and a third, whether he can contribute to the confirmation that he's not being punished or not, that he's not being conducted against him. It's something that's been in the law so far. What we are now introducing is the obligation to lecture on the work plan for the next term of office and the obligation to enable the evaluation of some additional competences. They are not such as to prevent anyone from reporting, but they provide him with additional points in this evaluation. And in fact, the school board in the first stage values candidates by all these criteria and by all competences, and when all the candidates are leveled, in fact the two best candidates present their programmes to all those councils that we have mentioned, meaning from the teaching council, the council of workers or the council of parents who then give their opinion and their votes regarding this topic and, of course, the school board represents it. It is a mechanism that allows us, on the one hand, transparency and respect for additional competences that do not restrict anyone to report but gives them these added points and on the other hand enables them to apply the different rules by which the advantage is achieved. And look, I don't know how to read different laws by which the advantage is achieved, it's not just an advantage under the Defense Act, it's an advantage for people with disabilities and other groups, but that advantage always comes from equal conditions, which would be translated on this one on our case, so the only way to get the advantage here is if two candidates have the same number of points. But it's a mechanism, I think that allows us to follow this process much better. These were two topics I think have prevailed in this work, so I'm going to answer some questions that I think it's good to answer because it's not very simple for this law that's had a lot of changes like this. So the problem of enrollment is the problem of honourists, it's not the law that solves the problem of honours, it's the value of the outcome of learning that's recognised in the curricula. So the curricula is this definition of outcomes, which also defines and recommends first and foremost teaching methods and then evaluation methods and if we have a benchmarking, then it's much easier to compare and not evaluate something that is arbitrary than something that binds to criteria. As far as curricula is concerned, all the curricula in this existing law and all the working laws have been made by the minister in a decision but of course there is a public debate ahead, that there is a debate on the decision, that a really complex mechanism is preceding that such decisions are related, and in no case is a discretionary decision. The burden of students is also prescribed and we have little of that category for primary and secondary schools set up, why is it so, so already if we look together and electoral and mandatory items, those fences that are legally exceeded so that this is now actually editing and harmonizing with the existing situation but we should really consider that our students still spend at least the minimum hours of teaching or spending time at school at least of all their peers means children of similar age in Europe and this should be taken into account and we will also set this up in the following iterations and now we have opened the space for it. As for the different deadlines for adopting, for example, school plans, curiculum etc., they are extended but on the basis of the fact that representatives of parents must participate in their adoption, so that they may have to hold parental meetings at the beginning of the year, only afterwards are different councils formed which then give their consent. As for the experimental program, so everything that must contain the experimental program is not written in the amendments and additions because already there is a very clear regulation in the existing law of what and how it is done in the experimental programme. Of course, the same way that the curricula of the teaching course can prescribe qualifications for carrying out curricula of a teaching course but, of course, in accordance with the law, not in accordance with the law, but in law, it is not possible to count which are all qualifications, or which are all those studies that give sufficient level of turnout for a particular subject because these curriculaes can be different but surely that all of this must be consistent with the law and we must also know that all of these qualifications for teachers under the HKO Act will also need to be harmonised. First, through the standard of occupation with which the qualification standard is harmonised and then the study programmes that comply with that qualification standard. However, these qualifications standards will make up one core in the study programmes, which may be 50, 60, 70% but there will still be the possibility that curricula can be done in a way or preparation that there are certain specificities, in that sense I hope there will be plenty of quality solutions in this direction. Here's what I think I've answered, as far as maybe a few other things about textbooks that have been talked about, textbooks don't prescribe this law. They are prescribed by the Law on textbooks which, of course, is part of normative activities, are part of the normative activities for this year. However, we already know, the outlines of this law, first of all, to enable on one hand the good use of resources, means inheriting wherever possible, the digital part wherever possible, co-financing national and we said that it is part of the demographic measures carried out by the government to the greatest extent possible, for the next year it is about 100 million kuna and it is a very important demographic measure, meaning co-financing in that part. Of course, we also expect to work with cities and counties because in this sense it is a very important, very important message to participate in all of this, but of course there will be special opportunities, especially to correct it. I absolutely support and fight for it, I fight for it. And let's not forget that we're now able to raise the salary by 6%, 6%. It may not seem like much, but it's the first time after quite a number of years and lowering and lowering the coefficients and abolishing the rights. We've made collective agreements for both primary and secondary schools, and we're waiting for collective high education contracts to be concluded, and I'm sure it'll be done by autumn, too. As you can see, we're working on it. Greater allocation of the absolute imperative because as much as we withdraw funds from European funds, not only must we ensure a 15 % co-financing but we must ensure the sustainability of such investments because, of course, European funds are not something that can last forever. But it is certain that in programming and the following envelopes in 2020, 2027, this should be taken into account. Here, in that sense, I would now end this final word in a way that I would thank you all once again for all the comments and not just the comments that relate to this law but the education and improvement of education in general. The introduction of order as I said in Croatia is never simple or popular and all the rights and conditions that are guaranteed, so all rights must be based on equal entry competences and I hope that we will all find enough force together to recognise, regardless of the various political options, at least 80% of the common objectives of education, which are related to science that we can provide support because when we see the public looking at these research reforms, which is now recently announced that 87% of all and the cause has been representative of IT support in schools, that 70% supports curricular reform as such a whole concept, more than that supports the experimental programme of schools for life, is the biggest reform of vocational education over 90%, and I am proud that we have succeeded and these topics in public being imposed. And I say thank you to everyone who helps us in a good way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91890	So we have a whole series of replicas. ... Here, you haven't used it all the time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91891	Yes, yes, I apologize because I forgot to say that we accept the amendment means the Committee on Legislatives. Well, we can, that's it, that was one nomotechnical change, so in that sense we accept. [[Okay, we'll do that when we vote. We'll do that on the occasion of the vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91892	So we have a whole series of replicas. The first is the respected representative Sonja Cikotic who picked up as soon as you started talking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91893	Dear Minister, I have a question for you. So the law needs to be concrete and clear, we went to one change and additions that aren't comprehensive. I'm interested in the law mentioning other curricular documents, which are them. Further through the amendments to the law itself and you're saying that it's a clear coefficient of student burden, what I was communicating in my individual debate was that the law did not contribute to a reduction or to that student burden coefficient. The law attributed the minister to the other programmes, which I am interested in what are the other programmes brought by the minister. The experimental program yes, it existed in the previous one, so before these changes. However, there was only that the agency and other institutions could be proposing the programme. I'm interested in why the ministry is now when we have agencies. And further, we need to know that the law is not a promising document or a futuristic fantasy in which we should actually have a clear and concrete what we want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91894	The reply of the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91895	So first of all, it didn't go to list the curriculative documents according to what they're called at some point. For example, you now have an indicative national curricula that is in discussion while at the same time having a national framework curricula. It's not, it's not the point of you literally name it's to describe what such roof or frame curricula contains and it's done by law. Equally written are the level of curricula that can be, as well as the curricula in question, and then the curricula of working with gifted students, with students with developmental difficulties, and of course the frameworks are mentioned again in a generic way which, in which teaching is spoken, about methods of evaluation and of course there are other curriculas, can be curricula of interdisciplinary themes, modules etc. So these are all the curricula that can be brought. And the curricula as I said, of course based on a procedure which is clearly brought by the minister and so it has been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91896	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91897	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I think we can all agree that educational reform is a key reform for Croatia's future, that these reforms must produce healthier and better, happier, more successful generations and not only better teachers, better doctors, better chefs, better athletes, and better people to have better society, better Croatia. Unfortunately for you, you are part of a government whose reforms end in a dead end, health reform, pension reform. Educational reform is somewhere on the way to get stuck in that dead end. And what I would recommend to you as your former colleague, former minister, to avoid the problems you've had in this assembly today, you have a good PR team, but this PR team has forgotten communication with interested subjects, more conversations with all clubs, more conversations with teachers, unions, and perhaps part of the debate we've had today would not have had and you would have had a better step in the path to educational reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91898	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91899	Thank you very much. I really listen carefully to all your proposals and think that they are well-intentioned, what I have to say, what we are preparing for educational reforms in all four directions I have talked about, from curriculative reform, general education, vocational reform on higher education, which is based on the relevance of programming contracts and on the care of excellence on science based on really competitive projects, everything is going according to plan. Of course we can talk about whether all the details are well communicated, clearly communicated, but I'm sure everything is going according to plan, and we have regular meetings and we consult with unions, so we enter all schools. So, an assistant professional, went to all the professional schools in Croatia. All experimental schools have been visited by an assistant who deals with strategies, and we're equally concerned that at different forums we're communicating this, but maybe I don't know any better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91900	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91901	You didn't give the Ministers a gift to teachers and teachers, which increased your salary by 6%, but for 3 years, this government refused to fulfil the obligation of the annex of the Treaty to increase the basis which signed its own time for Jadranka Kosor, and then, after that, I don't know, how many years, when that provision came into force, it took a year and a half to promise them that they would be returned to them promised, and not fulfilled, on several occasions. It's the first, second, this law, you say the first time you recognize a class teacher with an enhanced class. So, but the regulation, the system recognizes them, the rule on the type and level of education, has been equating them for years with teachers in the course in question. And that's it, that's the fact. Now, you haven't answered the question, and that's interesting for you now to let go of the argument between the teachers and the teachers you've potentiated. Why did you give priority to engineers and everyone else, over class teachers?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91902	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91903	Thank you very much. First of all, I could also ask you this question, what you've done, about increasing the basics, the coefficients, whether you've increased, decreased, when we're talking about teachers and teachers. But let's put it aside, that's another discussion, which we can put aside now. As for the rule you're referring to in 2001, he only partially recognizes certain categories, but I'm going to ask you the opposite question, what about the master's primary education? They're class teachers today, who aren't in that rulebook. Not in any way, not mentioned. Therefore, it is very important for us, and it is very important for us to do so now in the law of groins.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91904	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, I've received a whole series of messages, on the phone, people working in class, meaning in elementary schools. This law degrades them, so it turns out that in the classroom they continue in these classes where you now degrade them, giving priority to people who have finished colleges, engineers or meaning other professions. It means they haven't done their job quality yet. They are concerned, please change this article, the party Change Croatia, advocate for these people who are working now, make it a transitional period, they can't, so their work has not been working so far. The other thing, it's a bad timing of this, no one follows this anymore, at a time of football euphoria, early summer, if you want real reform, ban the cafes within 200 meters, abolished sports bookies, it's the beginning of education, education. This clienteleist government can't implement anything, because it's naturally clienteleistic and has nothing to regret.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91906	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91907	So look, first of all, I'm sorry that you're not libi earlier, because I've also explained in the opening statement, how to approach, this regulation, I can only now repeat, that for the teaching in question, teachers, who are educated for the teaching in question, have the advantage. These are not class teachers, but we recognize them, as those who are also able to compete with the work and who are already working in the system and none of them will be fired, nor in any way demoted, however, will allow them to continuously improve, pass a professional exam, for the course, which they teach and not for class classes and what I will especially insist on applying the law on the Croatian qualification framework and teaching colleges adapt to those standards and not to run their own policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91908	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91909	Dear Minister, you say you don't do division. But I've listened very carefully to this and this last one of your presentations, and you said that these people who are class teachers with a class class class, who are now working in higher classes, that they are extremely high-quality, and that you're going to verify their status or their knowledge. That's right, so that's how you actually think it is, how you say it is, that they're doing it right now. The fact is, on the other hand, you question their competences, and on the other hand you claim that they have become competent enough over the years to be teachers in higher classes and that you will verify their knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91910	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91911	I guess you didn't listen very carefully after all. When we talk about education and learning, then we distinguish formal, informal and informative, which I was talking about. So we have a formal part, which is in the initial education that we're getting, from whether or not we're done, what learning outcomes we've acquired, what competences and then there's something called informal and infomically what other words mean, don't do it because it's a pure theory but here's just a little bit to explain to you. And informally and informally when it is recognised, means we need to evaluate them in this work and we have accepted it in the HKO Act, it is a very important instrument in today's time that, in addition to formal education, it can be considered informal and informative, it is not only our topic, it is not just the HKO Act, it is a major European topic and it is important that all levels of education are in this sense and here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91912	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91913	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, Article 34a, as a supplement that regulates for the first time an extended stay. I use this replica as an appeal to you and to your team to sublegal acts or regulations or whatever it is, bring it in as soon as possible. In fact, today, at a session of the County Assembly in Varazdin County, either making a decision on an extended stay, I believe that there will also be a great interest in local self-government, however, based on what? I'm afraid that by looking at and reading this proposal and the very way of funding and everything that's going to be done, 5 effective hours per 60 minutes, and we're so aware that first to four classes neither students themselves spend in school, so here's a pure appeal in the interests of children, parents to bring these sublegal acts in as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91914	Thank you. Dear Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91915	Thank you. We also recognized this need to regulate uniformity, a special rule at country-wide extended stay so that we could identify certain standards at country level not only but also apply. On the other hand, it is also important to mention that in this package of demographic measures the Government, for the next year special measures and the financing of extended stay from the European Social Fund that all those who, of course, organise this extended stay in accordance with standards and I believe that, on the one hand, this regulation and, on the other hand, the financing of such extended stay under these measures will benefit all and that this is a very strong demographic measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91916	That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91917	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, Second Reading, P.Z. 334, Comrade Jankovics, come in. Turn yourself on, turn yourself on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91918	Please pause from 10 minutes before voting on this law to consult within the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91919	All right, I'll give you a break. We'll continue at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes. It's 11:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.45 HOURS]] So we will now vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, Second Reading, P.Z., No. 334. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. On the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, I would like to ask the representative of the proposer to take note of the proposed conclusion. With us is Branka Ramljak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91921	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. We believe that, on the basis of certain amendments adopted, there is no need for third reading, so we believe that this law, therefore, is ready for the amendment and addition of the Law on Education and Education to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91922	Thank you. We will now now vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the Association of Representatives of Independent Lists and the SDP Representatives Club which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal has not received the required number of votes. Now we're going to vote on the amendments. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, Representative Sabina Glasovac, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, MP Nikola Grmoj, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, Reformists and Independent Representatives, the Club of HDS Representatives, HSLS and HDSSB, MP Davor Vlaović, the Club of Representatives of the HNS Liberal Democrats and the Club of HDZ Representatives. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. So now I would like to ask again the proposing representative, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Science and Education, Branko Ramljak, to be shown about the amendments submitted. Let's take it in a row. 1st Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91923	Therefore, the proposed amendment with the reason that the definition is proposed in the final proposal for a law wider than that proposed by the amendment is in fact a law, the bill supports the adoption of a roof document and in the event of an amendment to its name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91924	Appreciation for a respected representative, Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91925	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MOST has submitted an amendment in fact to clarify which is a roof, curriculative document that will be the main document that will succeed all the lower documents. And by proposed law, finally, and you're talking about a roof, frame, curricular document that doesn't really know which one it is. So changes and additions of laws instead of lighting, improving and improving the regulation of basic and secondary education systems make it a document with a high fog index. Namely, you mention other curricular documents, which are mentioned in other curricula documents, which they arrange, neither the minister nor her team nor the parliamentary representatives know. During the debate, we heard about a roof national curricular document. The text of the law contains a national curricular document. Do we have that roof document or not? If we don't have it, how could the curricula in question have been made without a roof document? How can I work? I can't do lower hierarchical documents unless we've adopted that roof document. As far as we know, there's only one document at this point, a roof document, and that's the one from 2010 passed by national consensus. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91926	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 2. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91927	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. Namely, the school curricula defines which electoral items a particular school institution performs in accordance with its opportunities and needs, and between the existing electoral subjects of that school institution the choice is made. It is therefore necessary to define these electoral items by means of a school curricula.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91928	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91929	Thank you, Mr. President, I find you this... demoted all the electoral items, that there was one declarative, in a way P.R. The story is that we're in favor of information, which we support in the 5th and 6th grade. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this provision you have demoted all the electoral items, because you have put them in school curricula together with extracurricular and extracurricular activities. In order to re-election, when selected, become mandatory items, cannot be at the same level as outside of school and out of school activities. In the extracurricular and extracurricular activities, the school curricula actually includes activities such as bread days, ecological action, and here all the electoral items are kind of downgraded and we are asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91930	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 3 again Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91931	The proposed amendment, the argument, that it is precisely from the strategy stems from activities on the objectives of the school institution and which are an integral part of the school curricula. It is therefore necessary that its component be also the document from which it is confirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91932	It's obvious, my colleague Sladolev again, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91933	Thank you, Mr. President. So this document, this law, is full of vague terms and one of these terms is a strategy for school development. So there's actually nothing explained about that term, which is the laws of that strategy, just that strategy. So, when I see you running such an important term as the school development strategy, then it needs to be developed to the limit. So here, otherwise in the law are very vague terms, among other things, it was also the reason why there were 900 pages and 4,000 objections to this law and why we asked for 3 readings. We had teachers protesting in front of the Parliament, we had a reduction in the salaries of rehabilitation educators, we have no so, from the ministry, no sign of amending the law on educational inspection. The government has refused to virtually amend the Penal Code, so that teachers, teachers, protect themselves, so that the attack on them is punishable as an attack on an official person. And then we have such a vague term. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91934	Let us also vote on this amendment and it is not accepted by the Government. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number four of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91935	The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. We believe it is not unclear, that this proposal extends the range of possible proposals of the experimental programme, because the programme does not always produce agencies, but always approves of the ministry that is also monitoring the implementation of the entire programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91936	Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91937	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in Art. 12 of these amendments and additions to the Law, Art. The 29th ministry has complemented those who can propose an experimental program. One of those supplements is the Ministry. Why, then, the specialized agencies that were separated from the ministry, what if the ministry itself were to propose an experimental programme and approve it for itself. The law's written below also speaks of a series of powers, which it extended to the ministry, and this is also the introduction of a new programme, and also, the minister, apart from proposing now an experimental programme, can also bring other programmes brought by the minister. So, for example. In addition to regular, alternative, international programmes, we have others brought by the minister. I'm curious, it's highly politicized by this experimental task force, which is headed by a diameter, I'm interested in one thing, whether the minister is politically going to implement a curricula reform, because here, with these changes, it seems to me that she's not in the centre or the student, because the teaching plan has not been adopted, the students and teachers don't know how much their children will be burdened, but I know, you're not from that area. You're from a higher education area, so you probably don't even understand what this is all about, and that's simple, that we have the fact that the ministry actually comes and extends its powers, to every article, to all amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91938	Are you asking for a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not been given the necessary number. votes. Amendment No. 5 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91939	The proposed amendment shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91940	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 6 A representative's club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91941	The proposed amendment shall be rejected. The proposal refers exclusively to exceptional situations, which we believe should be assessed at national level in order to exclude the possibility of misuse or frequent approval, and provided only in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91942	It's obvious, colleague of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91943	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This law otherwise gives, in a way, the Pharaohic power of the minister, colleague Sonja spoke of the fact that practically the minister may introduce a new subject into our schools without any other institutions. This is just a small matter, which is that the minister practically decides whether the student who paused for 2 years in high school will re-enter that school. So, without the consent of the teaching council. In addition, the minister has received a decision that she will decide whether a student who has failed the class twice will decide whether he will continue his education. It's too much power of the minister, we want the powers to be transferred to the teaching council, asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91944	Let's vote on Amendment No. Six that the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the needed no. votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 7 again Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91945	The proposed amendment shall be rejected. In view of the specificity of norming in school institutions, it was proposed that wages be increased as regulated by this bill and were actually taken into account by respecting this specificity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91946	Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91947	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking here that teachers should be involved in the OS and SSH, teachers should be involved in the use of European funds in the accredited system of the European Funds, those working on European funds, which work to attract European funds, have 30% higher salaries, or 10% if they are the sector's chiefs. You by this law only mean through these changes and additions, you guarantee them the percentage of which they are involved. What does that mean? This means that if the teacher has a salary of 6000 kuna and is engaged 20% in the work of European projects that this increase will be only 360 kuna for him, and for all officials, it means central government bodies, it refers to the entire coefficient, so the entire salary gets 30% in full. You here offer people who work in OS and SS to be responsible, to work on attracting funds, but therefore you do not adequately sign off on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91948	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number 8, the Advocacy Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91949	The proposed amendment is hereby rejected. This article is already defined as a social educator as an expert associate working in a school institution whose competences are intended to work with students at school so that the above-mentioned circle of professional associates is not justified to spread.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91950	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91951	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm glad you mentioned at least here educators, rehabilitators, when we already cut their salary by 500 kuna. However, we believe that social work masters and social policy masters should also be listed here. As a result of continued reform measures, educational institutions carry out activities that include prevention, improvement of the social competences of students, and the implementation of additional external and out-of-school content that require knowledge from the assistance of individuals, families and communities, the resolution of crisis situations in the community, human rights, the maintenance of good relations with local partners, the development and implementation of project proposals, cooperation with civil society organisations and the like, which can be successfully implemented by involving social workers, namely the Master of Social Work and Social Policy, as well as professional school associates. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91952	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are going to Amendment 9 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91953	The proposed amendment shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91954	And it becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 10 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91955	The proposed amendment shall be rejected. In this way, the type of qualification required for employment is determined by the Minister's Regulation, which opens the space to be clearly indicated in the curricula itself in order to improve the transparency of the type of qualifications required for the implementation of a specific programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91956	Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91957	Dear colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the Law on Breeding and Education in fact extend the powers of the Minister and, for example, in Article 29, that the list of qualifications will also be able to be determined by the curricula of the course. So we had one conflict between teachers with enhanced class classes, we had with those who had completed some other studies so they went to the 55 ECTS, with this sentence in the Law on Education and Education, you're opening Pandora's box where you say that a list of qualifications can also be determined by the curricula of the course. I ask you why this provision in law when we have HKO? What, then, is HKO going to establish a list of the necessary qualifications of teachers and teachers to perform curricula? What's the HKO Act for? What is the sectoral council for, what is the qualification register for? Is the minister above all that? Above the HKO Act? The minister of this teacher has previously not only diminished one legislative move, but for the second time in the same law added a list of qualifications can also be determined by the curricula of the course by leaving other higher education qualifications in suspense by introducing a concern about who will be at the mercy of the minister and her team tomorrow when she brings a list of qualifications with a particular curricula of the teaching course, by the way, the profession does not know the term curriculum of the teaching subject. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91958	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11 Clubs of Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91959	The proposed amendment is rejected since the amendment under regular number 9 is adopted, which proposes to be defined in a different way by the same provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91960	There you go, Mr. Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91961	Mr President and Secretary-General, the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party and independent of this amendment shall not enter into the content of the amendments to Article 29 and this supplement. Since we believe, and this has also been demonstrated by the debate in this assembly, it has also shown that this text, this content was not in the public debate. This was then inserted into the government's session when the final text was established. We believe that what is initially illegal, contrary to the rules on law-making, the law-making process, cannot be legal even when changes in the text are made. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91962	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to amendment number 12 of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91963	The proposed amendment is rejected with the same explanation, so the adoption of amendments under row No. 9 which proposes to define in a different way the same provision, there is no need to accept this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91964	Comrade Dodig, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91965	Dear Secretary of State, this whole debate on the Law of Elementary and Secondary Education is under the terror of the Syntagma "not ideology but technology". We are in a situation where we no longer have the right to even think anymore because we have a one-way way of thinking that went so far as to put a whole profession, a teacher's profession in an unfavourable position. It is not by chance a teacher who is important in education and even more in education. We have schools today where we have extraordinary students but we have no education. In this way, moving teachers from their natural environment and their knowledge through the first decision to deal with the work, and behind that decision to do so, is now all about the logic of one person and the will to position them. Teachers must be here almost in the first place. At least on the second, I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91966	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to Amendment 13 of MP Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91967	The proposed amendment is not accepted, so since the amendment under regular number 9 which proposes to define the same provision in a different way, we do not believe that this amendment should be accepted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91968	Obviously, here's your colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91969	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, it is incorrect that public debates in the law introduce provisions that a particular group, and these are students of the school, students of classrooms with enhanced programmes from individual teaching classes, put them in an unequal position, or restrict their rights as they say. You do not accept their arguments, their public protest, you do not accept the club's proposal to go into third reading to further clarify and make one correct approach to this problem that these people who made their contribution. I remind you that just in cooperation with other scientific institutions, your ministry has given you the opportunity for teaching colleges to educate such staff who will fill jobs in rural areas. Today, we have 68 closed district schools because there are no students and we have a lot of schools that have 100, 150 students, who didn't have enough professors to deal with the problem in this way so that classes can be provided. We put such suggestions in the position of a small school in rural areas with 100 students that there will be no one to teach tomorrow and that they will have to close or merge. Is that our goal, or is it our goal to have quality education in every environment? That we have a satisfied teacher who will have a higher salary? Here with these 300, 350 kn you will not further motivate them, it should have been different from national sources to raise their wages and invest more in science and education. And that's why we've made this amendment because you didn't accept going into third reading, to point out that injustice to that group again and again and again, and we've been doing some injustices, and through the Law on Forests for Urban Forests, in the Health Law for People who are finishing a study of medical biochemical laboratory diagnostics, now and here. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91970	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number 14 of Senator Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91971	Amendments to the honourable MPs with the same explanation as in the previous case are not accepted, so since the amendment under regular number 9 which proposes to be defined differently by the same provision, we believe that this amendment should not be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91972	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91973	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State for Higher Education, I thought when the minister refused to come to the Croatian Parliament today, that she sent you here to tell us that studies that educate class teachers with an enhanced class are abolished because they don't really need the system anymore. You have actually introduced total chaos into schools and arguments between teachers and teachers about who is more competent, who is better to teach what at school, and each other have chosen as their call, life call working with children. On the third hand, in this argument, you had one very carcinogenic intention, which is to give the right of the championship to people who have not been educated at all for teaching or teaching, or to work for children, to give them the advantage over teachers who have completed class classes with an enhanced course. It is something that is unseen in this Croatian Parliament and the fact that the minister had to send you and that there is no secretary of state or secretary for one of the largest education systems, pre-school, primary and secondary, says that this ministry has become one man show where the minister between the first and second readings pleases lobbys and does whatever he wants from the Croatian education system and the damage this minister will leave behind not only in the chambers, but the whole system will unfortunately only be seen, it will break over the back of our students, parents, teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91974	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. He didn't get the needed no. votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91975	Amendment No. 15 down. We consider the explanation to be necessary at the level of the same county, to have the same rules. This provision allows it. Access to public services is equally ensured, by setting conditions, which are prescribed by law itself, and by this Regulation, only a more detailed procedure is prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91976	Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91977	Thank you very much. By refusing this amendment, you will create chaos in employment. With the proposal of your legal solution, you want, in fact, to work, not only on organisational surpluses, but also on all others to set specific criteria and just do the opposite of what you said. So you will disable equal availability to public services, on equal terms and evaluation of candidates. Because it will not be prescribed anywhere, in principle, at the level of the state, but at every school, you give the possibility that it sets out its own criteria and the way people will be employed and provided with technological surpluses. And directors will be obliged to hire in such a way. And what are you going to do? You will deny the right, defenders, national minorities, persons with disabilities, as well as the right of the championship, i.e., respect for the positive legal rules, against non-discrimination, or positive regulations, that these people are employed. This is so dangerous for the system, it's so arbitraryly made, it's not in line with the unions, but you've played the unions and these criteria, if you've already decided to take the role of God and prescribe the employment criteria, then you should have unified it, provided the same conditions, and not that every school works on its own terms. So what you're saying as an explanation, you're achieving a completely opposite purpose, so you're not going to ensure equal availability to public services, on equal terms, because it's going to be provided by the schools themselves, they're going to... to prescribe who can be employed under what conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in Zadar County, it will not be possible to apply the same criteria as it will be in Sibenska, Karlovac, Varazdinska or anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91978	I assume you're looking for a vote? Let us also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the needed no. votes. Let's go to Amendment No. The 16th legislator of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91979	The proposed amendment is rejected, with an explanation that we believe that the current provision relating to the composition of the school board in a balanced proportion ensures the presence of all stakeholders associated with the school institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91980	You can't go on behalf of the counseling club. Since there are no colleagues here, we will then vote on his amendment, which the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary number. votes. We are going to Amendment No.17 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91981	The proposed amendment is rejected, the explanation of the working experience is a broader term compared to the proposed term of the insurance internship, and has just wanted to ensure a wider circle of persons, the possibility of applying for a competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91982	Here you go, buddy of the Ice creams.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91983	Dear Secretary of State, I don't understand why you deleted this, the word work experience and replaced, deleted this insurance internship and replaced it with work experience. Work experience is a very broad term, which can achieve places of manipulation. So work experience can also be volunteer work, it can also be student work. I'm like a student, I don't know how to work a gas station, I was washing windows, if I could put it as a work experience. I don't see why the provisions of the insurance service have been deleted, when that's a much more precise term, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91984	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now let's go to Amendment No. 18 MPs, Sabine Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91985	The proposed amendment to the honourable MPs is rejected, namely, it is necessary to distinguish the necessary from the additional conditions, the necessary conditions are the conditions to be met by all tender participants, and the additional conditions are only added value for each individual party.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91986	Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91987	You've now created some new labour law. The labour law only knows the general conditions that mean, important years, 15 years, and all other conditions are special. As a condition, it contains necessity, right? Yeah. It wouldn't be a condition if it wasn't necessary. You have made this up, derrogated the Labour Act and invented the necessary conditions as a term, because the condition is necessary in itself, only to enable you to open up a space for manipulation, through some additional criteria, which you have also decided at the same time, and you will value knowledge of foreign language, information literacy and work on projects, and on the other hand, you will not value, for example, any additional training or education for managing human potentials, communication skills or anything else needed to manage schools. So these inventions for some conditions, there are, you know, what conditions a person must meet, to compete for the principal. Terms, no necessary and no necessary, these are the conditions, that he has completed his studies, that he has so many years of working experience, that he is not punished etc. There are no necessary conditions. This is fiction and this is in collegiate with the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91988	Let us also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment 19 to the Alliance of Independent List Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91989	The proposed amendment is rejected by reason that, given the multiple changes in the director's status, the introduction of such a provision would leave too many directors without a working relationship, and therefore we believe that such a change requires a truly complete analysis and also intervention in other provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91990	Comrade Sladolev, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91991	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we think that if the President of the Republic could be elected in two terms, the university rectors would feel the same way about the principals and, of course, to the director who was elected twice, they'd leave a place to work at school. We believe that the two mandates are not bad because you are in some way encouraging the directors to innovation, creativity, and not migrating because there are directors who are lifelong directors, who have relaxed, who don't actually contribute to school work. However, this is the end, it is my last amendment to dedicate one positive thing at the cost of a warning, so I will read the names of Croatian high school students who won 5 medals at a mathematical competition from Romania, so I just want their names to be heard in the Parliament. These are Tadej Petar Tukara, Marin Varivoda, Petar Nižić Nikolac, Borna Šimić, Ilija Zelelac, Ivan Novak and the leaders Petar Bakić and Matija Bucic, so 5 medals from Romania at a very difficult mathematical competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91992	Not that you'll get a warning, but we'll all congratulate together. We are now going to the last 20th Amendment of Representative Sabine Vosovac, and excuse me, let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. [[Applause.]] He didn't get the required number of votes, so now we move on to the 20th Amendment of Representative Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91993	The proposed amendment was rejected by reason of the introduction of selection procedures, testing and evaluation of candidates, and was intended to achieve the primary employment of the best staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91994	An obvious colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91995	That's not true. By not accepting this amendment, you will not ensure greater competence and quality of school management, this can only be achieved through a systematic approach to solving the problem of the director, investing in further training and reducing the impact of policies on school management. In this way, the imaginary criteria that you will be up to, and then the bodies that decide to elect a director, such as the board of directors, the teaching council, the parent council, will not send all the candidates received for director, but will send the school board from the proposals received with its point of view the criteria which will again not determine any objective body uniformly for all but every county and city for themselves, with these points you will send only two to these bodies and politicise the whole process. The founders' representatives at this point have a minority on school boards, but if the criteria will prescribe the very schools that the founders have to agree on for consent, then through this under the cover of points of additional competence for directors, you will actually legalise political corruption and ensure that not that you get the highest quality at the head of the school, but in some arbitrary ways you will ensure that schools are even more dominated by politics. And that's not the way, and that's what we shouldn't have gotten as a proposal from the Ministry of Science and Education and at least from a minister who swears she's a non-party minister, that she works so hard in the interest of individual political and other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91996	Then let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We have come to an end with the amendments, I am now voting the final draft law on amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. I find that with most votes, 68 for, 29 abstentions and 26 votes against the law on amendments and additions to the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91997	The next item of the agenda today is: - Proposal for a law on the Central Register of State Property, first reading, P.Z. No. 393; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Minister Goran Maric, Ministry of State Property. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here it is before you the Central State Register Act. This area was thus far, i.e. the management of the Central Register of State Property was governed by the Law on Management and Property of the Republic of Croatia in 2013. This law ceased to apply on 8 June 2018. In that law, earlier in 2013, it was prescribed that the State Property Register would be led by the Ministry of State Property until the new law was passed. The new proposal, i.e. the new Central Register Act, will be run by the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society. And here's a few reasons why it is. In fact, so far, there have been a total of those debtors who filled out the central register, the Central Register of State Property, with a total of 227. Of these 227 taxpayers, only one of these 227 was the Ministry of State Property. There are also many archives, museums, CNB, Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters, MORH, all ministries, Geodesy Administration, and now with this bill there will be more than 2,000 taxpayers of entry, state property in the central register. And none of these assets of these debtors are under the supervision of the Ministry of State Assets, nor is the Ministry of State Property managed by that property. Therefore, this law proposes that the Central State Register of State Property shall be run by the Central Bureau of the Digital Society and, as well as by the owner and holder of the ownership rights of the Republic of Croatia, will be more than 2000 to fill in the central register and the Ministry of State Property will have its own records in particular and that record will be an integral part of the register of state property to be managed by the Central Office for the Digital Society. The Ministry of State Property and otherwise the Ministry cannot be a service for 2,000 users and neither can the information or human potential spread as much as is necessary for the management. And we think it's necessary and that this is the best solution that an independent body that's qualified for such a thing and designed for such a thing to run the Central Register of State Property. It is prescribed that all bonds and so far have not been bonds and from now on there will be units of local self-government, all companies, units of local self-government, budgetary, non-financial users of the state budget, budgetary, extra-financial users of the budget of units of local, or regional self-government, all companies, institutions and other legal entities whose founder is the local self-government, or units of the local self-government. The institutions will also be bonded with the input of property data that they possess and those institutions which are one of the founders of the Republic of Croatia or local self-government units or units of the regional self-government. It is also one of the founders of an institution of which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia or a unit of local self-government and any legal person with public authority. The Register of State Assets will thus receive a complete one-stop shop where the property of the entire Republic of Croatia will be managed in one place, regardless of who manages it or who was the user and I say there will be more than 2,000 users and taxpayers of the entry into the Central State Register. Otherwise, the current state registry situation is not complete, it is not true, and because data entry bonds do not comply with their regulatory obligations because they are not even prescribed penalties for non-execution. This law also prescribes criminal penalties and bonds will have to deliver any changes and data relating to the property it has. Currently in the Register of State Property we have 17266 real estate in the register. The bookkeeping value is somewhere around 2 billion and 300 million kuna. For 6488 real estate there is no accounting value, 0 book value is kept. In 2017 alone, since the Ministry of State Property, we have entered an accounting value for 3780 real estate, which means that a year and a half ago there were more than 10,000 properties without book value. It's a huge deal, but that's why every obligor will now have a part of the job that will enter with accounting value into the register of state property, and the Ministry of State property of course with the property he has. 3622 are land in the register of state property, 448 million square meters and 298 million kuna accounting value. 6724 business premises, 6117 apartments. If I were to tell you just one piece of information, then you'd be easier to picture a picture of why the register of state property is not correct, it's not complete and how long it will take for it to become more accurate. He's already more accurate than he was a year ago and more complete. But there are many other circumstances affecting whether the register fits the real state or not. In fact, very often there is a change in ownership, especially with regard to local self-government units and the Republic of Croatia. Every day, solutions are made to determine the new owner. These solutions were not generally entered into the register on an up-to-date basis. Returns in certain areas cover so many particles that for only one return there are several hundred particles in one area. The process, the return procedure, takes 20 years. From 1997 to today, we can't influence that. Public administration offices have been making solutions, and they haven't brought them in 20 years. When it is brought to that, it has the right to appeal, so the Ministry of Justice decides at the second degree, and returns to the administration's office, and once again, when the administration's office is re-scheduled in the Administrative Court, disputes are resolved. There are hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of real estates that vary every day and cannot really determine the state of the state register. Therefore, this Law on the Central Register of State Assets will become a real-state infrastructure and the management of all assets owned by the Republic of Croatia because it prescribes a commitment to all data entry bonds and to all holders of ownership rights to enter into the central national property register which they have and which they manage. Often, the Ministry of State Property is identified with the entire property of the Republic of Croatia, but it is a very small part of which of you is anything of the Republic of Croatia only if we mention Croatian Water, Croatian Forest, all other ministries, all companies, all units, 565 units of local self-government and all the assets available to all others, all museums, all national parks, then there is only one small part at the disposal of the Ministry of State Assets which has a budget of 0.04% of the total budget of the Republic of Croatia and has a number of employees that are so small, there is almost no other institution in the Republic of Croatia. But I won't bother you as much as we have and only with those deprived resources and done since the Ministry of State Property, we'll do that to someone else when there's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire and Sales of Business Space, I'll do a little more detail on that. I suggest you accept in your first reading the Law on the Central State Register, the Register of State Property, and all suggestions are welcome and we will install in the second reading if they contribute to more effective recording and management of state property. It is not necessary to point out that neither this Law nor that Law on State Property Management has any party or ideological omens, and let alone... Or that he has some kind of encrypted intention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope it's your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u91999	The replica was reported by Representative Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92000	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, just a few questions like this in the replica first, and then I'll get something a little wider in front of the club. Art. 4. exactly states so,... Bonds of the Constitution, God of the Constitution, supply and input of data, and then says under some heading, I think it is 5, companies, seductions and other legal persons whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I'm interested, by the way, in the word "founder" is always connected to institutions, not so much to companies, I'm curious about what's going on with companies where the state or units aren't the founders, but they have stakes. Is that understood, is it later mentioned in the preamble or in the article. 2. what is considered a notion of state property. So, it's a little bit now, so it's very clear what financial and non-financial property is, it's well taxed, and the bond delivery is now only here I'm interested in, is there still these companies in which... or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92001	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92002	Thank you very much. Yes, we will define these bonds and companies, if further necessary, but all companies that are the founder of the local self-government unit or which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia or of the legal person who is the founder of the units of local self-government or of the Republic of Croatia are also bonds of supply of data and property that they have on behalf of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92003	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92004	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Maric, you are, by this legislative proposal, actually expanding the number of people who will register property from a small number of people to a large number of people, who are branched out in many organisations, institutions. So I'm wondering if there are going to be any courses of use of this system, and the application, and if they will, who will bear the costs of education, so, education of people who will work on enrolment of state property. I'd like to point out, to remember big systems like Arkod, at the end of the land-book system, that there were problems that occurred in the education of employees, and let's say that in the case of Arkod, citizens, farmers of certain things, it takes great insight into such cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92005	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92006	Thank you very much, thank you for the replica, Representative Sincic, of course they are extending the list of those who are bonds of data entry because all those who have the property and who are owned by the Republic of Croatia are obliged to keep records of the property they have and to deliver to the central state register. As far as information support is concerned, the court is already in phase three, so it will be in the 11th month. be prepared, and we will deliver the prescribed forms to all bonds, in which way they will fill and deliver to the central state register. So with this procedure, we will unify the delivery and central register of state property. It will certainly become wider, but also more accurate. And it's not natural and logical, that someone owns the property of the Republic of Croatia and no one knows about it and is not in one place records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92007	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92008	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, here I am actually going to express my particular reserve under this law. I don't understand the intensity of transferring the register to be run by the central state office for the development of a digital society. You've made these certain arguments that I don't agree with, because you're still running the ministry. You said it was a little bit, that he had a little budget, that he was a little busy, so then I don't know why you're still moving it, because you have to, as far as I've seen in law, move employees. And the other thing, which I find controversial, is actually these obligations that you impose again on the units of local self-government and even more controversially infringing provisions, unless they meet it. I think you should still be a little more flexible here and look at that not all units of local self-government are the same, especially, here, refer to smaller municipalities and cities and know which human and fiscal capacities they have, and it's very difficult to meet all the obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92009	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92010	Thank you very much. Local self-government units are already and are now obliged to submit their data in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, but they do not, this law only regulates it. And free counsel if you have any suggestions for improvement in the law you deliver and tell us we will consider installing it in the second reading. But it's not natural for the Ministry of Agriculture to now keep a record of the assets run by the CNB, and everyone would be apprehensive about it. If the Institute were to run the property, which is owned by Croatian waters, then everyone would say, "Where did you come from?" If Croatian forests were to keep records of Croatian Waters' assets, everyone would, and when it was directed by the European Commission and the World Bank, give this as a reform law, to pass a law on the central register of state property, because in one place all the entities who have the property must supply data, we implement what is for the benefit of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92011	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92012	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, dear colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Law on the Central Register of State Property. At first, he would say, what the minister had just responded in his reply, which is that when I adopted the Law on Governance and Property of the Republic of Croatia, I said it was indeed one reform project, the creation of a central register of state property, which should in one place keep records not only of state property, but of the unit of local self-government and clearly then the entire ownership property of the Republic of Croatia. And I agree with the minister, it is not logical that one ministry which has the basis of the law and the basis of the regulation on the establishment of its work, to keep records owned by other, central state bodies, other users of the state budget and public undertakings of the unit of local self-government and institutions and companies owned by the unit of local self-government. The fact that, the existing state property register that the ministry had so far, I would say only 227 taxpayers filling the central register speak for themselves enough that the entire assets of the Republic of Croatia were not affected and thus the existing Central Registry was disabled. Therefore, such an approach that imposes a completely different way of managing state property management which, as the minister said, will include over 2000 new taxpayers filling the Central Register of State Property in the best way will define the entire assets of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government. What is certainly necessary in my view is that the Government will have to adopt a regulation that will, within 60 days, regulate the way, form and maintain the register itself in order to establish a unique approach which would then be managed by units of local self-government, which would guide all taxpayers in how and in any way, to provide data on their assets so that more transparent, simpler, more efficient and efficient they could manage this same property and which, given that in one place, could serve as a basis for any projects, reflections, reforms, strategies, etc., etc. What is not good is that through this Central Register we will still have no real estate that is not yet arranged, is not arranged, and until the entire state measurement is made and the real estate cadastre is made we will not really have the entire property of both the state and local self-government units, but this register will allow what is recorded, what is arranged, what is updated, what is appropriate, what is considered the property of the state and the units of local self-government based trust, that is, the principles of trust in the data in the land books will be in this way, and this is the Central Register of State Property to be able to read and read, will be able to keep records. Therefore, we will support this draft law in our first reading at the HDZ Representatives' Club. We hope that after this summer break, the law will come in the second reading and all those remarks that will be highlighted in the debate will be clearly discussed and adopted if necessary. Here in this sense, we at the Club of Representatives support such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92013	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Marko Vedligaj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92014	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. First of all, I must say that it is absolutely inappropriate that in this time when unfortunately no one is looking at us, because we all know that the eyes of all of Croatia are against Moscow, we are discussing yet one important law because whenever a state property is being debated, it is very important. I'm going to commend the minister who came here for this debate given his and his football pedicures, that's for real. But I don't think this message is good for the ruling. It is not good for us to discuss in this time something that is very, very important, that at the end of the Parliament session we have last week every day of the debate, now we have 4 days and through, when it is regular then we have 3 days a week. So now we're crowding up I don't know how many agenda points, it's all very urgent, today it was all very important to do. Bad organization, unfortunately. However, I will return to this law to express the SDP's brief position. Here I can say that at the beginning of this government's mandate the Ministry of State Property was founded, the explanation was due to the need to address the accumulated problems with state property. It is true that there are these problems, but we felt in the SDP and we still believe that only the establishment of the ministry solves almost nothing. There have been some results and shifts, there have been in previous governments, but the big, crucial step has unfortunately not yet been made. Commendation to the minister and to a good PR who works in the media, a good portion of state property has been donated, here recently, to the Catholic Church 84 million kuna, so valuable property in Split. Unfortunately, we still don't have that property management plan, but I say, the ministry is, I'm going to repeat it once again and we have what we have but the ministry in one regulated state should still represent something more. But I will look back briefly on this law, and I have already pointed out that these arguments on one side may be standing, but then again the question of the existence of the ministry itself is being raised. And that's where the ministers sort of confirmed what I said and now because you said you had few employees, you have a small budget, and now you're going to have even less. What is also controversial, of course, are the obligations which are that local units have the truth now already have the obligation to run those particular registers, but since I know, I come from a local unit, how much capacity does that require. And that's kind of another additional bureaucratization of the system because we unfortunately have the registers everywhere. We have a obligation to fill them, and then here we are still threatening ourselves with really great breaking provisions on the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, and we all agreed, regardless of the political colors, so here's the violation provision that, prescribed, means 10 to 100 thousand kuna is certainly too great. I will ask you straight here, since I come from local self-government a few questions, you may be able to answer me, if not, I will have to leave because I am not from Zagreb, and I would also like to see the Croatian team game, but I will see it in the video or later in the record. Will, by virtue of this law, the unit of local self-government have to record and deliver all its forms of property to the central authority of the state administration for the development of a digital society? Unfortunately, by this law, I would say, however, that we are not equating state property with the property of local self-government units after you, as a government, or the ministry of closer set the structure, in fact the government will determine the structure and way of keeping the register, its content, the way the data is collected, for the central register of what time it will be for the delivery of these requested data, how long it will take for the units of local self-government to do so, according to your assessment. I repeat again, they differ in human and fiscal capacity, will this standardised and continuous maintained record represented by the central register, given the data they make, have to be taken over and run at the level of units of local self-government? I believe that's it. Of course it's questionable about time, about money. And once again, of course, the problem for a lot of local units is the establishment of a real estate register, for the properties they own. So we know that units of local self-government have started with a property recording process in their ownership and co-ownership, so available and real estate management strategies have been adopted for a reason of better strategic availability, governance of the property, but I repeat again, it is actually one long and complex recording process due to the non-correspondent state of land books, state geodetic data, the situation on the ground, and therefore again requires additional financial costs. Here are some of these questions, I'd still have a few comments, it's that the Central Register Act should be clearly prescribed, if you're going to do so, the public publication of the central property register and on the website, the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society and what we had little and discussion on the board, you said that you're managing property, in fact you're the Ministry of State Property and I'm as I understand it is that, except for the state property that's in your jurisdiction, you should create one legal framework for the management of property at all levels, whether it's the property of the local self-government unit or what you mentioned state-owned companies, etc., so it's really the Ministry of State property, then if it's already a decision of this government to be a ministry, even if we often hear in the media stories that ić is at the merger, the termination of that the ministry, because most of the majority of us could even agree here in some of the non-formment that we have some of the other discussion. I'd just say, don't be just the Ministry of Property of the Republic of Croatia, but really the Ministry of State Property. I'll say ahead, of course, on the one hand, any shift that goes towards better governance of state property, any shift that means that this state property is going to be put into operation is good, but because of which we'll be held back in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92015	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92016	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Minister with my colleagues. So I think that this is something that when we talk about the central register of state property long ago, and absolutely all praises go into dealing with such a problem, above all, the objectives themselves are also listed here in Article 5, so that I do not repeat them, except for the records themselves, the structure of phenomenal forms, of course more efficient management and supervision, etc. What is most important is that we always know that in ignorance is fished in a blurry, there are different extremes where identical properties or other forms of ownership are differently distributed, managed, not known who owns it, etc., etc. Then he would go ahead and look back again at, I think it's very well written in Article 2(2), which is state property and what it's all about and it's really comprehensive, everything that has anything to do with the state, and with units, cities, municipalities, counties, institutions, companies, anything that has anything to do with the state. But I must really say that in Article 5(5) or Article 4(5), when I talk about companies that are the founder of states, I would say more in which state has a majority stake, if at all possible given the legal structures and ownership if we have from companies where we have private owners, whether we can make all their property, and I think that if we can put administrations and governmental proposals and appoint supervisory committees, etc. And at the very end of the line, all their business is public, so that we can also write down all their real estate and financial and non-financial assets because this is how we actually have, let's say two things. We know what needs to be done and what needs to be delivered, and now let's ask who needs to be delivered and who we have in Borova d.d. where the founder is not a state, it was a social property that did not privatise, they are not covered by this text. What about companies founded by another company owned by or established by the State? So here, it says for institutions, but it doesn't say for companies. In particular, HEP has certain daughters' societies as long as you want. What about them? And they have a certain property. So they're not according to what I read, they're not bonds. The second thing, you are, so here it says keep a record that you are obliged to deliver and enter information about appearance forms. So in Article 4, paragraph 2, you said that so far there were 227 debtors, that you now expect more than 2000, which is, of course, commendable. I wonder what the deadlines are? Until when? When do they have to deliver? Let's say in cities, municipalities, especially cities, so when we look at the city of Zagreb, there's everything and everything. I'm when I get back to that first thing, the goals, I believe they don't know anything themselves, and something deliberately keeps hanging somewhere that nobody knows who owns it or let's say the city owns it, but it's not listed, it's not listed, etc., etc. And that's where the lines really need to be introduced. Because I'm saying, as long as it's a mess, someone can use it. So what's the deadline for the delivery of that information? Is it very well said here that the delivery of this data related to changes in ownership of other real rights should be 30 days, and then later in the infringement provisions in Article 8, we state what are the violations if they are not delivered, and what about the delivery of those first data? Basic, entire assets. Until when? If someone left out something, didn't bring it all, didn't deliver it completely. So it's something that you would, whether it goes by regulation, regulation or not. First of all, I think maybe we should work on that. Generally speaking, this absolutely deserves all the support not only of the HNS Club, but of all clubs and MPs because it is necessary to introduce order once. And you need to... to the extent that which is a state of all of us, who governs it, how, under what conditions and how it is made available. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we even know that we always say that the state may be a bad master, but we have units of local self-government and regional, where there's still no idea what or how. And they'll need those who don't even have their own property management offices and don't have their own lists. 'Cause watch what comes in here. All financial and non-financial assets. Let's say, advertising spaces in the areas of the cities that are on their own, for example. The ad space that the city is concessioning, it's giving someone. How many are there? Who gave it to who? How come nothing on city property? It's special, we're not just talking about financial assets, if we're talking about an object, but what that object brings. So it's non-financial. So that's worth something. Whether it's a blind spot at the bus stop doesn't matter. So it's also a certain kind of property that can be capitalized for work. So there's absolutely a lot of work, so at these deadlines it's important to me, we've listed them here, I know you can't do it within 60 days. It's absolutely impossible, not even six months, but that should encourage them to do it, yes. Because if we're going to punish them for not delivering a change, I think it would be good to set some deadlines or some modality in what way the percentage and part of the assets must be brought in and what of the subsequent assets found? Suddenly someone remembers, look at her, we didn't know this at first, and what we're gonna do now. Here, I'm saying, that's why it's really not just who's going to lead. I think it's a technical question, and that's where one has the most technical assumptions. My colleagues said why not the State Department. I think it's absolutely irrelevant who has the database and who's serving the servers and all that. What's important is what's done and how it's managed. And how data is collected. And that's where the principal word of the Ministry of State Property runs. I don't have any problem with it at all, my colleagues are going to do something, I don't know why, I guess they have to say something out of opposition that it's not good, so come on. But as a rule, this is an extremely important thing. I mean, why are we arguing right now, there's nobody here, if we're not here by now, we'd say, "Well, look at them, you've cut your hours for the game, and others have to work." So you can never please anyone. I think this is both good and first reading, it's going to have time and time to change everything and work and certainly full support and the minister on this because I think it's going to introduce a lot of order, and that a lot of masks are going to fall. The HNS Club will once again support this in its first reading, please respect these questions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92017	Thank you. Now we have an individual discussion. He was registered by a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Unfortunately, he's not here. He's losing his right to speak. And that concludes the debate. I'll give my word to the motionary, the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92018	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, thank you for this debate. I'm sorry he doesn't have a Velligay representative because he said things in principle, but he didn't give a single recommendation to improve the law or give any suggestions. He was suspicious of the level of criminal punishment. The violation is scheduled from 10 thousand to 100 thousand kuna. If a colleague of Velligay has a proposal of some kind, I'd like to hear it, so maybe we'll adapt to most of it, how to put it. I don't mind that sentence being from 10 thousand to 50 thousand kuna, but as most people decide in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to hear as much as possible about it. However, it is interesting that it was just on behalf of the SDP Club that Vedligaj spoke on the Law on the Central Register of State Assets, and the SDP Club adopted, proposed, a vote in this Assembly on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia which provided for the adoption of a special Law on the Register of State Property and which was not defined who runs the Register of State Property. In that law it was not prescribed at all. Only in the final provision was it provided for the adoption of a new Law by the legal predecessor of the Ministry of State Property to keep records of state property. Of course, the easiest thing is something in principle that it would be good for the Ministry of State Property to manage state property at all levels. Both local and all, it's a little too ambitious, if anyone has any knowledge of how the state works. Can you imagine in one country, that one ministry would say it would manage the property of another ministry. So in order to respond to that, the defence minister, let's say, manages the state property ministry, planes, all the fighting assets, all the assets that the defence ministry has. In order to react in any State, the Minister of the Interior, if the Ministry of State Property manages its assets without talking about other institutions, such as hospitals, local self-government units, cities, and the city will not manage the property, will be managed by the Ministry of State Assets, or by companies or by regulations that the central state register is necessary. And that all bonds must supply their data, and the Ministry of State Assets will deliver theirs and keep their records for the property it manages. As far as the daughters' companies are concerned, the colleague made an observation, although by definition, the founder is already obliged to enter the register, that he has a daughter's company in his property. We've got nothing, we'll think about passing the law and delivering the daughters' societies. Although, I say, it is already foreseen, because the founder already has that property in his review that the company with all the property of the daughter's company is in the register of state property. But if we need the daughters' societies to register with all their assets, we don't, we're very happy to say it. The local self-government unit has until now been obliged to supply data. However, they did not regularly deliver. Now we prescribe what time period it is and that deadline is possible until the second reading to be corrected, to see which is objective, whether that 30 days since the change occurred is sufficient. Maybe it's something, we think it is, but if there are better solutions, we'll think about it for 45 days, 60 days, or leave 30 days, for every openness we're here. As far as the central registry data is concerned, it's not public, so... 6th said, I heard earlier in Mr. Velligay's discussion, data from the central register, are being carried out on the web pages, in accordance with the provisions of the regulation referred to in Article 6. Paragraph 7.1 of this Act. So all the data is public. Otherwise, the Ministry of State Property is completely open and transparent. I don't know if there's any institutions that publicize each of their decisions. On our website is every decision of the Ministry of State Property. Have you noticed how the competition was announced? It is more publically presented, when a tender is announced at the Ministry of State Property, as much as we care that he is a public transparency, that he is available, rather than past, incomparable with past times. And I'm not going to answer to a colleague of the Vesligaj on the work of the Ministry of State Property, but only in two competitions, only two billion kunas are secured investment and about a billion kunas in the state budget. It's just two contests. We've never had a contest before, let alone such results. How many illegal emigrations, as far as we've been involved, here, I can tell you, announce, remember the island of Smokvica, has been illegally used for 25 years and the Republic of Croatia has charged 0 kn for the use of 25 years. For the next 30 years we sign these days the contract of the Republic of Croatia will receive 150 million kuna for the same property. It's just one small piece of information the State Department does. And it doesn't give about what units of local self-government require and seek and what serves them for the progress of their end, for the development of their end, for employment, for incentives, for motivation and for the revitalization of each area, to enquire their mayors and chiefs of what the Ministry of State does, then it would get an answer, the opposite of what is here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92019	Thank you. He had two replicas, the first respected representative of Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92020	Thank you, Prime Minister Maric, I am not going to comment on this about Smokvica, and you were acting on some functions at the time until Smokvica was giving money to the state budget, but I'm going to ask a question from half an hour ago. So if we expand for 2,000 subjects, which will enroll in the system, will education, internally or through competitions be organised for them, and who will pay for it? This time, please, no evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92021	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92022	Thank you very much. Partly expands and will not expand by 2,000 taxpayers, because there are now bonds that do not carry out that obligation because it is legally not well defined. We now legally define the obligation for the existing ones. In part, it will expand, and the estimated total will be around 2000 taxpayers. Of course we're also predicting education, of course we're also predicting procedures. Well, as we do anyway, there's no week that I'm not in the county with the mayors and the mayors, just for education, how to deal with each other's relationships, and thus improve cooperation. So there'll be education here anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92023	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92024	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, as far as Article 4(4) is concerned, the data relating to the change in ownership and other real rights of all forms of occurrence are therefore required to be delivered within 30 days. I don't think that deadline is controversial, but I'm interested in what if there's no diameter, they're obliged to provide all the information about all the ownership and non-financial, financial, but within which deadline they're obliged to deliver yesterday were, the day before yesterday, you said it well, but there's no change, so someone's got a long-term lease. renting, whatever it is you do, either using your own space or you don't know it has, until they can report it and they haven't reported it yet, not any changes to that property or... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92025	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92026	Thank you very much. It's a good point, and by the second reading, we won't have a misdemeanor because so far it hasn't, so they haven't even delivered it. So you speak of those who had an obligation to deliver and did not deliver, and there will be no change, nor will they deliver. Now they will have an obligation under this law to deliver because they are subject to criminal punishment, but we will prescribe a deadline within which, if they have not delivered, the obligation to deliver, we will give one reason, whether that is 3 months, if that is, we will see until the second reading, we will crystallize, and we will suggest in another reading. Article 8 states that they are obliged to do so without delay. But for those who have no change, they owe them. We'll prescribe that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92027	That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92028	Proposal for a law on the central register of state property, first reading, P.Z. No. 393. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law on the central register of state property is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 83 for and 44 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92029	We move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rental and Purchase of Business Space, First Reading, P.Z. No. 395 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Honorable Minister of State Property Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I apologize for a little answer to Agent Sincic a moment ago about the island we were talking about. Without the horizon that I acted on, I always represented the same views. It just doesn't give every function an equal opportunity. And the moment I'm enabled, I've taken it and here's the results. So it is not disputed that I was at certain functions and always in accordance with these functions and worked in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We have before us the law on amendments to the Law on the lease and sale of business space. If we know that we have 3600, 700 business spaces and if we know that we only have 70 contracts that the Republic of Croatia has regulated relations with 6000 potential users or users of business space, then we know that the Law on the Hire and Sales of Business Spaces does not work. No sales were made under the existing Sales Act. Not a single sale. And since the lease, it best defines that 2000 is without some legal basis for users and I say, the Republic of Croatia only has 70 contracts regulated. We don't remember that over the past years any space has been awarded for selling space, it doesn't exist. In the area of business space, indeed, there is one disorder and this needs to be arranged and for the assumptions of regulation of relations is an amendment to the Law on the rental and purchase of business premises. Annual incomes at business premises totalled 50 million kunas. Imagine, at the book value of a billion and 700 million kuna and 428 000 m2 revenues, making 50 million kunas. Do you know how many years it would take to return an investment or value? 60 years. At present we have raised as much as we could in accordance with the existing law to 60 million kuna income total of these business spaces. Such a condition is inadmissible. Such a situation is unsustainable and therefore we must not delay the reaction, we have reacted with a new draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the lease and purchase of business premises because around I say, 1500 is illegal in ownership. A particular problem is co-ownership. The decomposition of co-ownership was 4 million kunas in 6,7 years until 2017, for 6 years the revenues from the decomposing of co-ownership communities were 4 million kunas. In 2018 alone, revenue from the breakdown of co-ownership communities is 30 million in the state budget. The Ministry of State Property will ensure a far-reaching transfer from the budget commitment taken over by the Ministry of State Property by means of this law. The current law still stands in force for the sale of business premises to users or public tender for up to 20 years and at an interest rate of 4%. I think we're a unique case in the world that the republic or state in this case of the Republic of Croatia, that the state is selling its assets at 4% interest and at 20 years, so it's not a state credit institution. And by this law we change this relationship, all if sold, will be sold by the basis of a public tender, the initial price based on the assessment of the authorised court witch and the one-time payment immediately, there is no lending of customers, if they are not financially capable then they will not buy, if they are financially able to pay from their assets or to be in debt with credit institutions, so they will also be able to buy that space. Rarely, the user of the current business space is actually original, that he had a contract with the city or with another legal person. There are hundreds of cases of TV. Financial contracts on business and technical cooperation, the sub-letting of which the person who has received the space from the State sublets the third party and earns several times more than the benefit of the State. This draft law prohibits sub-letting, prohibits the granting of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia in sub-letting. And if that happens, that contract is considered automatically invalid. This is the truth, the reform law because it will bring about changes in both huge and effective management of state assets and in transparency state property management. This law amends provisions concerning business premises only owned by the Republic of Croatia and does not concern business premises owned by units of local self-government. However, here we have heard already on committees and especially on the Committee on Local Self-Government Units to suggest that these provisions that are of excellent value and this law applies to local self-government units. We don't mind installing it if it's a unique position to be, to install that clause, to refer to those as well. With the existing conclusions, this law provides for a new contract by the Republic of Croatia to offer a new contract for 5 years only when it is economically justified and only if the area is leased on the basis of a public tender. Article 7 brings a talking newspaper, which regulates which business premises cannot be sold, this has never been defined and this law defines 4 cumulative conditions must be met so that the business space cannot be sold at all. And that's if it's a zero or a first zone of cities and municipalities, if the street spaces with a window on the street are in the field and the value of a 15-year lease is greater than the estimated value, it means that it's economically justified. So these are the most important newspapers in this bill that will contribute to the application of the law to regulate relations with all users legally, to have a legal basis, to manage them more effectively. The revenues of the state budget will be much higher and will allow for the purchase of those areas for which it is not economically justified to rent. I also see here from the local self-government unit if, we have heard that this law is unanimously supported, accepted and marked as an excellent law on all committees. If units of local self-government say they want us to expand in the second reading that the provisions concerning property owned by the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government we have nothing against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92031	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92032	Thank you, Chairman. You listed a whole series here I'd say abuse of state property where everything and everything was done without whoever was using the property even caring without the state asking anything for a long time. Well, here's another example where the stolen state property has actually been kidnapped and the case has been standing for many years at the state's attorney's office, they can't decide whether it's something or not. So this is about, as we know, a big space is a messy grant, we have a cadastre, but we don't have a grant. And then some courts, catastres, grants at the local level went from catastrophe to grants in a way that they invented particles. And instead of enrolling them in the Republic of Croatia, they were enrolling them in the city or in the municipality. After that, the city was not selling to certain people who were good with the mayor and things like that. In this way, something that was supposed to be taken into the city and the city sold it to third parties. And that's quite a mass phenomenon, say, in the hinterland of Zadar or Gorski Kotar, are you familiar with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92033	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92034	Thank you very much. I understood your part of the debate, however, it does not refer to the Law on the Hire and Sales of Business Space, we know of such cases, if it is not about criminal acts, if cities or municipalities sold such land and at the time of sale were owners and then it was later found that the owner of the Republic of Croatia was then only in these cases known the conduct and there is a Law on State Property Management which regulates these relations. And where criminal proceedings are, that's not what we're getting involved in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92035	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first was to speak to the respected representative Miro Bulj, who is missing, who is losing his right to debate. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92036	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Here I have prepared a longer debate, but given the time, the circumstances that we are all now with thoughts, hearts and prayers with our football team convinced of tonight's victory, I will be brief and I will only touch the key things that are related to this law which is very important and deserves in any case a quality debate and convinced only what experience we have so far, especially on your part, your ministry, that the suggestions from the first debate, first reading are accepted. So the main issues for us, which are at this point and are being resolved by this law, is the ban on subletting business space owned by the Republic of Croatia, as well as any other legal work that gives space in reality to another person for use, completely realistically, completely rationally, and in any case, this position should be accepted, because the tenants who thus gave space to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia to another person on the use of the lease agreement should in any case, and this law should be terminated. And for that business space, a contract is to be concluded with a person who actually uses it, not in the employee business. It is determined that the business space can be sold exclusively to the tenant and that is something that should be supported in any case. And now we come to what is here and the minister specifically pointed out, so those 4 cumulative conditions that should be accepted there and I will give a suggestion in this part because I support the committee's position because this is a very important law, and I should, in the same way, have this kind of property available to the state, but also units of local self-government to include units of local self-government. And in particular, here is my suggestion well-intentioned, I believe that you will respect it, we have cases, which I personally know about, and also in my city, but throughout Croatia, that certain business premises are not only owned by the Republic of Croatia or local self-government units, but they are with each other and some co-owners, therefore in co-ownership relations, the Republic and the local self-government units, and they are satisfied, for example, either with all these 4 criteria or we have tenants who are in some way from the past due to unsettled books, land and catacres, unsettled ownership, had a contract or with a unit of local self-government or with the state, and I think that this is the moment and the law opportunity to solve such a problem. In any case, the HDZ Representatives' Club in the first reading will support this bill, as well as all the committees as we had the opportunity to hear, and that would be short of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92037	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92038	I would like to thank the Vice President, my colleagues and my colleagues, the Honorable Minister. Really very briefly, if I didn't repeat myself again, it's also extremely important, just a few of us standing by, and I'd only pray that we address them first. It's not here, my colleague Klaric just mentioned something that I've recorded to myself, I haven't been able to read here about the co-ownership story where we have, where the state, and we know we have a lot of these things, especially if we're talking in buildings where the state owns an apartment or plot whether... the property or any other way the state has acquired a share in a plot, and now it is a potential problem in the sale, the availability of basic owners, private owners because they must first or offer their part to the state and the state is deafened there, meaning that it is not or will provoke that particular public tender for the state to open a lease and that they are then buying it, I think it would be very good that, in the principle of these leases so far, the state regulates and immediately offers these co-owners at the price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the criteria for deciding which business spaces will be on the list, which I don't need, because according to how I read it, it won't be those who meet all four criteria, if I'm not wrong, cumulatively, means they must be in zero or first zone, or that the street spaces that look on the street side with the window, that, cumulatively, all of them must be in the area, that's probably the ground floor as far as I've seen, something under the ground floor, right? Let's just say that because of the public that we don't have that in Slavonia, at least that term hasn't taken on some big, big-scale name, we say ground floor, or ground floor, and then so to speak, and whose value of a 15-year lease is equal to or greater in real estate assessment. [[Intruder Reiner: Earth is ground floor.]] In my view, a very strict criterion, practically everything can be because I don't know how much at the end and when you write a list and see how much, all four conditions, maybe the most important thing to me is this last one because there's really when we're saying that someone can get the value of that property back in 15 years, it's very important, then the state can also have it, it's not worth selling. These others when we talk about zero and first zone in line, this level thing, come on, but just all four to meet, it's going to be very little I'm guessing real estate that will have exactly all four conditions and will be excluded from that list for sale. When we talk... Excepted, excluded from the list for sale, yes, well I said, so they won't go on the list for sale, they'll be excluded. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think we're going to get to very few of these properties, and I think that's the most important thing in this quarter, so I might say one of the criteria, or I'll put a fourth and one of these previous 3 so that in that way we can do a little bit of correction, or if we really want to, or if the minister can see it by his decision or somehow, because I say this, we're really narrowing things down to us, and maybe some things wouldn't be good. Furthermore, in Article 5 which refers to Article 6 when we speak, and that is the good thing as a borrower can make written tenders for the conclusion of a new contract, hence the existing lease speech when extended, but may not where the monthly lease amount is higher than the maximum lease price at the decision of the unit of local self-government, irrespective of the activity. Now, we know that units of local self-government have different zones, zeros, one, two, three, so that's whether it refers to that very zero, the largest one, which is, therefore, independent of the price achieved even, but the one that's prescribed as the original one, right? I'm talking about the highest starting price here. Okay. Furthermore, the ministry also means written request. The ministry is obliged to respond no later than 90 days. Therefore, there is no condition left, whether or not we will accept it, while the units of local self-government impose that it is obliged to give the current tenant of business space a written offer for the conclusion of this contract, unless they will not use it for their own activity. So the state doesn't need a local self-government unit. Now, I'd like a little bit of an explanation of why the difference is that the state can decide whether or not it will benefit, not, sell, whatever it does, and the unit only if they think to use themselves. Also, there's only one thing I don't understand. Article 9 is amended as follows: 36., I'll end up with that now that we really don't go too much, paying... and prices, by one-time payment when it comes to the state, and when it comes to units of local self-government, can be agreed on either one time or on a one-time basis according to the customer's choice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm a customer and I say based on an article. The 36th Amendment to the Law of 1st, that I wish for 500 wars. I don't see where they say good. I buy something and I pay myself for 500 annuities, say some, or war equal I suppose. Here's the question of interest. What about interest? If something is a reckoning, then it has to contain the price of money, because it's not the same now either for 20 years or 5 years. So, and that city can't accept it or not. I'd like the city to be a partner, too, so that or the community, come on, the most we're talking about are cities, let's be honest. So, if they also have the right to say, yes, we want to go out to meet and make war, some say we don't want because it's extremely attractive, we have 17 bidders and can people then calculate with the price of real estate and with the price of money and with everything, so maybe you can get a higher price, but I don't know how much war. Or limit you to 15 years, 5 years, 10 years. So, I'd say a little bit like that. The 9th should be arranged. I'm not saying you shouldn't give in to wars, though, but I'm just saying again, the state has one criterion for itself, different for local self-government units, so maybe include them deciding whether or not they're going to give something to the wars. Here's a thank you. By the way, I'm without a doubt saying that we support the very intensity of the adoption of both this Law and everything he carries, as well as the previous Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92039	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from a respected representative, Grozdana Peric. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. A respected representative named Gordan Maras also called. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. So now, on behalf of the promoter, the final thing will be said by the respected Minister of State Property Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All the esteemed MPs, we'll get this straight. Co-ownership will disintegrate regardless of the percentage in any area. Co-ownership doesn't make sense, and it's dysfunctional where Rh is co-owner, it's best to go into the decomposition of the co-ownership community because it doesn't exist. The most common is co-ownership, not most often, as a rule of damage to the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to those cumulative conditions that real estate will not be sold. You're saying there might be too few who won't sell. But that fourth is, well noticed, the most important. However, why wouldn't the Republic of Croatia sell something that the lease is less than 20 years of rent per year than the estimated value. That's why we put it on, usually it's a real estate return for 12 years, and we put it, if it's more than a 15-year lease, then it won't. But if it's smaller, then there's no reason to. Then we do damage. We also have to deal with state property economically and this whole law is set up, set on economic logic and transparency. There aren't any, there's no way we can do this, why we're gonna make it possible for someone to choose if they're gonna get a loan from the state. Because we want to and won't, while I'm the minister, no one gets anything like that anymore. Look, 1231 buy-in contracts with tenant rights. No one until I did, no one knew there were these contracts until a few days ago. No one knew there were debts until a few days ago. No one was worried whether to charge those 1231 users who got it in '92. and '93. The right to buy an apartment with tenancy rights at a price of 4000 euros to 7,000 euros in the very centre of Zagreb. They got 20 years on interest of 1%, with a monthly war of between 100 kuna and 250 biggest, sold those apartments for some and 350 thousand euros, so that today the debtors would be in the Republic of Croatia, that no one in the Republic of Croatia could even owe. Are we gonna do it again? No, we won't. We're not gonna do that. And we won't let that happen anymore. And these also left today a reminder to everyone and whoever doesn't pay 4 million kunas owes, and the payments are 100 grand each. And if you knew who they owed and how much they had, and what their functions were, and what their functions were, and what their functions were, and they owe them 20 thousand kuna, and their monthly war is 150 kuna. They sold these apartments, went to villas in the upper city, and owed the state that money. The state's attorney's office is going all these 1231 will go for payment and unfortunately, these are the contracts, the question of what we can do. There's no penalty for not paying. Now, this law that we're making now predicts everything, and if it doesn't maybe predict the details that you've noticed, we're very happy to include it. There is nothing encrypted in the law that comes from the Ministry of State Property and there is no one to please but to clarify and benefit the one who uses the space of the Republic of Croatia but also the Republic of Croatia. I don't know who and why we've passed such laws that we can't even announce who owes, but it's interesting to see what the government is doing and who doesn't pay the state and under what conditions it's got. Therefore, when it comes to the sale of sales space, only at an economic price will be sold, only at the estimated value and only if it will pay immediately. It's no different. And they don't come to mind, we're completely locked up here. There's no pressure on whether you can do this or give in a little bit, but we're open to as high-quality law as possible. If the units of local self-government want us to apply what we have changed in relation to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and to the units of local self-government, we will be happy to accept it, we have nothing against it. And we can't give that it can be chosen when it comes to the property of the local self-government unit, whether it's credit or one-time, and when it comes to the Republic of Croatia, I can't choose. We are very happy to pass on these criteria and to units of local self-government. And if you think it's a good thing, we think it's a good thing. We just didn't want to get into relationships from the same local self-government unit. And if they think it's a good thing because local self-government units at a public hearing or when it was in a public debate proposal, no one had any objections. If the debate goes in this direction, we will also contact the Association of Cities and municipalities, we will present them with proposals in both the Parliament and our proposals and the proposal of the Committee on Local Self-Government, so if they are manifest, we will consider this variant. but whoever uses the business space, has to pay the rent, has to have a regulated relationship, has to have legal status, if they have the option to buy, buy at market price and with the payment deadline immediately after the signing of the contract, and if they have not paid for the termination of the contract, but the state will not finance anyone but will create legal security for business space users so that they can develop, that they can either buy or buy in the most transparent way possible but the current legal framework has led to chaos, we with this legal new proposal solve that anarchy that exists in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to business spaces and we will seriously consider the possibility of including and changing that and referring to the units of local self-government. You can't have any idea how much the possibility of subletting mutilated the situation. We don't have a regular. He does not pay the state and charges 1000 euros from the person who benefits and this law will charge the state from the user, not to charge the third person and the state from anyone. And I guess nobody would let that happen, so we decided to treat the property privately because if it's private world and state-owned, the basis of this law will be no less sacred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92041	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first replica is the esteemed representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92042	Thank you, Vice President. Just a very short, respected minister, that absolutely most almost all sign everything and indeed this introduction to order something where many and previous laws and this where a lot was hunted in a blurry, where there was a lot of avoidance, go all to the harm of the state. And, of course, when it's at the expense of the state, it's not welcome. In these things that I mentioned in relation to the local self-government unit, I would just give the right choice to the city, so the buyer can, with the city's consent, say, be some amendment to those two sentences. If I'm going to talk about Article 9 of Article 36, it means that according to the customer's choice with the city's consent so that we don't tie our hands to certain cities or counties and that we can and can go into the favorites of the customers and users themselves because we want to encourage economic development and not to go restrictively, I absolutely welcome it, and I think I'm saying that this until another reading is certain that there will be some changes but all of this goal that you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92043	The next replica is the respected representative of Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92044	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Maric, imagine the following case, in some municipality in the centre of the municipality, there is a destructive building owned by the Republic of Croatia in the main settlement of the municipality. So I ask you what is the process, what is the procedure or who is to do it, is it the municipal council, is it the mayor and what should be done and who should be directed, to you or someone else that such a building is transferred from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia to the property of that municipality, or what are the fees there, is there to be bought or is there any other legal status possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92045	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92046	Thank you very much. The ownership of the Republic of Croatia in proceedings shall be determined by the State Attorney's Office. And the Ministry of State Property does not register the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, it is represented by the DORH and this depends on the case to the case. I can't answer one general question in particular right now. If you have a specific case, I'd very much like you to come right now and tell me what this is about, I'll help you answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92047	Thank you very much. So I'm going to conclude a debate on this point and we're going to vote on it when the conditions come to pass. This brings today's work to an end, we will continue tomorrow, on Thursday, at 9:30, first with the report of the mandate-immunity commission, then there will be a choice and appointment and resolution, then those points in a row as you received at the beginning of the week as planned. We will also discuss the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, first reading, P.Z. No. 245 whose proposal is the HDZ Representatives Club. Have a nice evening and the victory of our team, thank you. Session adjourned at 6:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-11-0.u92048	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, first reading, P.Z. No. 395. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the lease and sale of business space is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 78 for and 41 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
