ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66576	I'm looking for a break, please, for this one, the position of the Croats in the BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66577	A colleague of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66578	On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I'm asking for a break, and I'm going to talk about International Women's Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66579	A colleague of Panenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66580	Good morning. On behalf of the Independent Lists Bridge, I request a break on the subject of the European Commission's report on Croatia's progress in implementing reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66581	My colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66582	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a 10-minute break to discuss the position of women in the Republic of Croatia and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66583	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66584	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am looking for a break from 10 minutes on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66585	I'm a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66586	President-in-Office, on behalf of the HNS Club, I request a recess on behalf of the International Women's Day and the position of women in society International Women's Day and the position of women in society. [[I didn't understand you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66587	Okay. That's it, so we have six requests for a break, we move on at 9.50 a.m. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] I would like to ask my colleague, Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, for Croatia to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66589	Dear colleagues, here I would, since the women are here today I would congratulate them on that day. I don't know if it's Marxist. I don't think so. Here's to all the women who suffer maniacs, terrorists, and most of all I would like to thank the women who were at war, who were in the sanity service. They were real, they couldn't stand fools, they didn't suffer from malignant egos, they were real. Thank you. Here today I would like to talk about a document, which is for me an official document signed by the Prime Minister, Defence Minister Tomo Medved and Foreign Ministry Secretary Mrs Busic. And it was signed on 5.5.2017 last year. That's where I looked when that constitutional crisis was, I asked for five, six cases to be resolved. And I'm following that implementation clan, and I don't have any official answers yet, but I'm gonna be looking for it real quick. Here's the first point that depended on the payment of HVO. These were done within the deadlines and they were members of the Croatian Army, Croatian forces. That's what they deserve. The second was to pass as quickly as possible the Defense Act, that defenders die. Here they die. There's someone in there holding a debate, and here's where we know who, to distract the speakers here. They're SDP guys like Mr Maras who talk all the time and never listen. Here's a short break. Here's the law. We have submitted four amendments, three have been rejected, one accepted. But I'd just like to get attention for PTSD. It's one monster that killed almost the entire brigade in Croatia. He's got information for Bosnia and Herzegovina. From 2008 to 2016 alone, 568 HVO defenders were killed. It's just until then. And it would just be one addendum to make an addition, anex that we could do it under that veteran contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, to get that monster settled, to get their confession and some kind of help as symbolic as it is. For example, when I talk about PTSD, you have, for example, a man in Remetic who has a geller in his head. He's been sitting there for three months. He doesn't have to worry. He's been insulated there for three months, waiting for the verdict. But he got epilepsy and that's the direct consequence of PTSD. The third item was this document here that was signed by those I spoke of, the president, the minister, the foreign minister and Mr. Medved was to hold a plenary session on the issue of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's more than five before 12. There were 800,000 or more Catholic Croats there before the war, and now it's been cut in half. I think 325 000 left and gone. That can't wait, that problem can't wait anymore. Here's the action plan. We know what's going on out there. The Croats have been victims of political engineering since the beginning. I've been there since the beginning. And they can't vote for their representatives. And if this continues, the Dayton Agreement will only remain a mere story on paper and will continue there. The failure of this, it is the largest, most expensive social experiment in Europe's history, is Bosnia and Herzegovina, which today is a de facto dysfunctional state. That's what I was looking for. Yesterday was the meeting of the general assembly, the president came and it was the first on the agenda, the first on schedule was the issue of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On diaspora double taxation. That's what we asked for to be abolished, because there comes 16 billion kunas from people on the outside and that's injustice. People come here, pensioners, and they can't pay for the accommodations. Elimination of red tape. It took us 30 years to realize that Croats outside should not be of the third generation of Croats, but Croats are Croats. That they don't need to know the language. You come to Canada language comes three years, one year after your arrival. That's it. We have not solved these problems with the Croatian diaspora, this should be speeded up to integrate into the economy and it needs legislation on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66590	Thank you. We are going to a second debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66591	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. I want to take this opportunity and all my grandmothers, moms, aunts, sisters, girls, girls, friends, I want to congratulate all women on International Women's Day. I also wish that women never forget that women are human rights, that we women have the right to be different, and that fellow Maras may just let a little bit of talk to others. That we women have the right to be different, to have the right to be ourselves, to have the right to show our feelings, and to be like that. Equally, we have the right to deal with politics, we have the right to manage institutions, and never forget you have to be yourself, make sure that glass ceilings for us do not exist, that there is no obstacle that we cannot, by our stubbornness, by our perseverance, by our sensitivity, skip. There are no obstacles for us, so don't get around the obstacles, skip them and move on. You have the right to be exactly as you are, you have the right to everything in this world, as you have the right to be in a family and to raise your children, to be in a business of responsible conscience and to progress so you have the right and in a political life to clearly express your views. And I am taking this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister to use his right to send the Istanbul Convention to the Assembly for debate and if he does not already listen to our parliamentary representatives, if he does not already listen to women in Croatia, let him listen to the European Commission who has today recommended to all members that those who have not ratified the Istanbul Convention ratify. I'm asking the Prime Minister to do that from this pay phone. And I tell all women once more, there are no obstacles, there are no obstacles to us, there are no glass ceilings, but be as it is, not as one expects us to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66592	Thank you. Before the third debate, I would like to welcome the students of the School of Fashion and Design from Zagreb to the first group. That's a nice greeting. Now it is up to a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic, on behalf of the Alliance of Independent Lists' Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66593	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I once again congratulate the happy Women's Day on all of you, as well as on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But the topic is definitely not something we should mark the day we want to celebrate because the headlines in the media speak differently. They are talking about a report published yesterday by the European Commission on the progress of the reform of the Republic of Croatia within the European Semester for 2018, where it is clearly precise, unequivocally supported by numerous shortcomings, I would even say failures to the majority. What do the headlines say? The icy European shower for Plenkovic, these seven persistent mistakes will soon come to Croatia, even far worse countries have reached you, why the new European Commission report should be seriously concerned, this Europe thinks about Plenkovic is incompetent and leading us to ruin, Croatians are the worst in the EU you are constantly delaying important reforms. Is this nice or is it possible that all our journalists were undereducated or not properly interpreted? Then let's do a little bit of self-critical and critical and read what's in it. But it's good to hear the government's point of view. Who's defending the government? The prime minister did not leave, the prime minister did not say his position, but sent the most unpopular politician, Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic. What does she say? She says she would like the reforms to go faster, but they go at the speed society can accept. So it's not a government problem, but the problem is society, citizens, all those who don't seem to want reform, we all want to stay in a country like this that makes us go out. There's something wrong with the statement itself. He says that reforms aren't simple, that it's been a year in preparation. I'd say it's been now and two months this year, are those years of preparation? And what is most tragic is that they actually consider European funds to be one of the most significant and healthy sources of economic growth. No, it has to be our industry, our policy, our tax policy, everything that's listed. And what I miss most is that not a single member of the government, the government who referred to the procedure where we adopted the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, said a single word when European bureaucrats said that our war veterans have privileges that are problematic and socially unfair. So I wonder if they should have come here to defend us when we're so unfair to those who created this country. What is the government's position? Is someone going to tell Juncker and his assistants, gentlemen, stay away from our defenders, take care of the other one. But besides that, we are still marked as one of three countries that has excessive macroeconomic imbalances where all the recommendations that have made are limited progress or are no progress or to translate, there is no progress or very limited progress. What's going on all the time? Reforms, reform of the pension system, public administration, delay in implementing the anti-corruption strategy, inefficient management of public enterprises. The issue of change in HBOR policy is highlighted where a high share of direct lending is indicated. And what kind of picture is being sent, what are we, like a picture of an economy? On the Doing Business List we fell, on a scale of economic freedoms in 92, GDP growth slowed down, around us growing countries. Where are the support measures for entrepreneurs? Well, we're not all Agrokor, so that's the most important structural measure to be implemented and the rest of us need support. Shipbuilding is ready to restructure, people are leaving, hospitals are growing, mails are being lifted, schools are collecting electricity, as fast as I can hear and gas, and what should we congratulate? The only thing that looks like the CNB should promote us is the banks, because they seem to be the only ones making money. We've all been looking for a change, all this HDZ sabotaged, now it's time for responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66594	Thank you. We are going to the fourth debate of the respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66595	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Last year, in the Republic of Croatia, one third of the total killed were women and that is the trend of growth. So not only that, but last year also 10,000 women reported domestic violence. In Croatian society, we see an increase in open discrimination against women in public, demonization of feminist theoretical achievements, an increase in the fight against so-called Gender ideology as an excuse to give up ratification of the Istanbul Convention. On the gender equality index issued every year by the European Institute for Gender Equality, the Republic of Croatia is below the EU average. On a scale of 100 points, the EU average is 66.2. The Republic of Croatia achieved a 53.1 score. The only countries worse than Croatia on the scale are Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and Greece. Women are less paid in Croatia, women's occupations are underrated, women are daily on prejudice. Every year, this day, March 8th, International Women's Day, every year we give roses, bonbons, for this Assembly payphone, we also say nice congratulations and good wishes, but at the end of the day when the time comes to do something about it, I'm afraid that we've all actually stayed in those words alone. A conclusion has been reached on the Committee on Human Rights some day, and I would like to say that it is unanimous with 9 votes and a consensus that by the summer break, no later than in the parliamentary procedure, the Law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. In that debate, we had the opportunity to see all these things reflected that I was talking about. It is especially, and I would like to point out that this argument about so-called. Ideology of birth. From this pay phone, especially today, it should be said that gender ideology is a reality but not in the way that all those who use it as an argument against ratification of the Istanbul Convention say. The only real gender ideology here today is especially to be said clearly and loudly is one that has for centuries denied equal opportunities in society. That gender ideology also has its own name, it's called the patriarchate. We will soon have a chance to do something very concrete about the struggle for women's rights, we will have the opportunity to ratify the Istanbul Convention and I want to invite you all to do it this way. I would like, among other things, this exposure so that not only would stay on the words of one man from this pay phone, so I would like to read something written by Croatian linguist Antonia de Castro Burica: "The flowers will dry, the candy will be eaten, the good wishes are nothing without thinking about the real core of March 8th. We do not give up fighting for our rights, dignity, bodies and freedom. Count on resistance." So it's a message from this woman's pay phone and then I'd like to conclude this presentation by interpreting an old Croatian greeting: "Death to fascism, freedom to women."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66596	We're going to the fifth debate. HDZ representatives' club and respected counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66597	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I join the congratulations of all women in Croatia for this International Women's Day. However, as I asked for a break on behalf of the club regarding the latest developments that my colleague Panenic spoke about earlier, I will still look back on yesterday's statement by the European Commission on the European Semester and on economic developments and financial indicators in the Republic of Croatia. So in its assessment, the European Commission has recognised the government's efforts, which in the year that has achieved positive and good results in the first row in the annual projected GDP growth of 2.8%, on reducing the government budget deficit, or for the first time in history, we will have a surplus of the general government budget. It also recognised the public debt reduction, and in this respect I would specifically single out these three most important macroeconomic indicators that talk about growth of the economy in the Republic of Croatia and about the settlement of public finances. It is certainly the Commission's suggestion to continue with the reforms that the government made in April last year in its national reform programme and national reform programme and where it is necessary to establish and engage further in order to make those reforms indicated and implemented. Before I say anything about these reforms, I would, however, remind our opposition friends that the government had already come several times with certain laws that were on the reform trail that was defined by the national reform programme itself, so they were against each of these laws, whenever it comes to tax reform against which most of the opposition voted and this reform, as it clearly gave us a very significant success and made it possible and was one of the biggest support for GDP growth in Croatia. Yesterday and today, we will discuss a package of laws that are within the scope of judicial reform, and then we can see from previous discussions that the opposition is almost unanimous against the laws that speak of judicial reform. These days we also discussed one thing yesterday, I would say to the reform law relating to the promotion of investment in Croatia, to the promotion of investment in Croatia, and this is the law on strategic investment projects, so even yesterday we heard numerous remarks and disagreements with the law that will directly help I would say investment in Croatia in the first row of major strategic investment projects. We are witnessing that any announcement of an important strategic investment project, just out of opposition, we are witnessing opposition to the realization of such projects whether it is the latest case of the LNG terminal in Krk that would allow Croatia's energy independence. At this moment, it is being prepared and today there is another action plan in the government that will allow for further redundancy of the economy where the elimination of certain parafiscal burdens would reduce the cost of the Croatian economy by 600 million kuna. The preparation of an action plan is under way to address the issue of wages in the state sector, etc., etc. So that whole year we're talking about and behind us and in which Croatia has achieved economic growth, I repeat about 2.8%, in which as proof of Croatia's strength and arrangements as a state-of-the-art public finances and the fact that the finance minister has placed bonds on never more favourable terms and precisely because such macroeconomic indicators in Croatia have made it possible to make bonds in Croatia when we talk about both the road sector and domestic and foreign markets, hopefully now the most favourable conditions. And we at the HDZ Representatives' Club expect the government to do everything in its April to further strengthen and implement reforms announced by the prime minister at the end of last year that relate to the pension system, the health system and the public administration relations system. And that's what we're holding in mind that these laws that are already in the process of doing that will help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66598	Thank you. Let's go to the last debate, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, club of representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66599	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, allow me to congratulate, on my personal behalf and on behalf of the CNS, the International Women's Day, above all, all my colleagues, of course, and all the staff of the Parliament's professional services, of course, all the women in Croatia, those whom they are watching right now. As for the position of women in Croatia, we believe that there is certainly a lot to work on, of course we have been quite loud these past months as regards only one of the things and this is the Istanbul Convention that would contribute to this, but this is not the solution to all the problems, of course, much still needs to be done there. Currently in Croatia women are better educated, still less paid for the same jobs than men. Only 30% of women are in management positions while still at work 62% of women do household chores, not to mention child rearing, maternity leave and all other statistical indicators. So it's not enough to do one job, but we're free to say that women do two or three jobs at the same time. Women are still women we said, still victims of violence, left unpunished, and we think that the same is one of the reasons that can change such negative trends and improve the position of women in society, independence. So the more independent women, the better their position, the more equal they are, of course, they will be able to fight for themselves and there will be no one who suffers and is silent, what is unacceptable absolutely and of course even against the law. What about Women's Day and the European Institute of Gender Equality is that gender equality will create a greater number of early jobs, resulting in a rise in GDP and society will be able to adapt more successfully to the challenges... The population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Equality between women and men is one of the fundamental values of the EU. And the figures say that this very equality could bring more economic growth. When we talk about demographics, there is no demographic growth without the better position of women in society. I think that's clear to everyone. As long as we have a situation where a woman has to work harder for less money, to question herself during employment and see if the woman is married, whether she has children, whether she plans to have families or not, and whether these are criteria for establishing a working relationship and receiving, of course we won't have a demographic growth. So, very few causally related things that we need to address and do as soon as possible. This House has passed several laws, and I am of the view that we certainly cannot be too normative when we talk about both the position and the number of MPs. Today we have 29 out of 151 MPs, 29 women in the Parliament, very little. Why? And we have passed a law on 40% representation on lists that obviously in larger cases is some form, norm, cosmetics where it only meets the number rather than the actual results, it is that indeed women assume equality not only in politics, and here we must be the first example, but of course in society. And lastly, once again I want to congratulate everyone on International Women's Day, this is one symbol of two centuries of fighting women for their rights that are not yet exactly equal, which we obviously see according to these statistical indicators, and always remember and mark this day well, but we have to work the other 364 days of the year as if this every day is a woman's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66600	This has led us to the end of the debate after the break, and we are now going to a united debate on amendments to the Law on Courts, amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council and on the areas and seats of the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66627	All right, here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66628	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here I would like a break after the European Commission announced today that it will punish Croatia's European Court of Justice for not solving the cost disposal problem in Biljani Donji. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66629	Thank you, good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66630	Dear Vice President, here I would like to request a break on behalf of the HSS club on Petrokemia Kutina and those announcements by Minister Maric that Petrochemy has 30 days, so 10 days left to finish, so on the subject a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66631	Thank you. Another club? Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66632	Respect, I would like a "combined" break on the topic of the state in the third May shipyards, Brodotrogir and Uljanik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66633	Thank you. Anyone else longing for a break? No, thank you. I hope no one will object when working late again. And I'll see you at 15.25. It's 3:15 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.25 HOURS]] First, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66635	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here after years of black hill that began to break down ten years ago in Biljani Donji in the heart of Dalmatia, today the European Commission announced that it would give Croatia to the European Court of Justice because the state authorities failed to solve the problem of the black waste dump near Biljani in the Zadar area, which I had repeatedly spoken about and sent letters to the ministry and representatives of the ministry. It looks like this to you, one hill of 140,000 tons. So Croatia did not follow any rules when it comes to waste management, thus jeopardising the health of citizens and neglecting environmental protection. Otherwise, only the dump is located 50 meters from the first house. Of course, there is mostly the population of the Serb national minority, people who are left behind by all and don't care at all. However, this is also one of the key problems, because simply the representatives of the Serb national minority do not see them on the ground to solve the problem, and yet most of them are in power, and here is the problem where not only the Straight Wheels are at risk, but water supply is at risk, agriculture is at risk. Simply these particles that fly in the air endanger the health of all people in the area, but it is a good tourist attraction. When you go down Split, Zadar will see a big black hill on the highway. You can see it from the moon. Croatia should, according to what the European Commission says today, comply with waste management rules by the end of 2015. Although we have promised it several times to the people in this area to the European Commission, which they are very often calling for in Parliament, there has been no movement so far. Nearly 4 years after the European Commission launched an illegal call, it called for the illegal removal of this dump on the Black Hill remains not properly deposited, so today a major threat to both water and air. And this is cited from a statement coming right from Brussels, so because our Brusselsers are also calling for Brussels to explain how large amounts of pheromegans and silicones, and how Croatian poisons mean poison. And that the Croatian authorities have done nothing about it. It means almost 140,000 tons in the heart of Straight Wheels, in the heart where there was once been the production of vegetables, fruits next to the houses of people who live in danger of water, threatened air and their health. Of course, according to the European laws under which our Brusselsers are called to lead the country, Croatia should take measures to protect groundwater and prevent the spraying of these tiny particles. Of course, the European Commission is here saying that it had no choice from our pro-European politicians, but to sue Croatia means to the European Court of Justice that there will be huge damage. Unfortunately, not only are the damages that the Croatian Brussels administration from Mark's Square does not do to what they are called for, but major health damage, environmental damage, and apparently now economic damage due to 140,000 tonnes of someone thrown at the door of such a black cost. Now you can come and see what this is, the dust, the particles to whom when they see it, we have to go and I invite people, and they can bring them out in front of the square and have them stand in front of the square or the houses of those who rule the Croatian state. They've done enormous damage so far, economically. Now in this case because we are going to the Court of Justice European. Ecological and economical, so I call on those who are calling for Brussels, and these are the rulers headed by Plenkovic, let them now take note of this issue of what this same Brussels is calling for and which is why they are now being sued by that same Brussels because they have done great damage to the people of Ravni kotar, Biljana Donji and the whole area that is protected by the area and the tourist area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66636	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66637	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Here's to all women I'd like to congratulate as the first Women's Day of March 8th, and now we're going to Petrochemy. This is the third time I've asked for a break on the situation in Petrokemia Kutina. With Minister Maric telling reporters before the government that Petrokemia can last another 30 days, it is now about 10 days until the deadline Petrokemia can endure. What has already been said about Petrochemy has not, unfortunately, fallen to fertile soil either in the government or in the ruling party. I'm glad my colleague Boris came because recently, after my last break, he said what this HSS is so worried about Petrokemia. So I think HDZs should take more care of Petrokemia, because the president of the HDZ Petrokemia Administration, a large number of HDZ directors, and the largest number of HDZ employees. But these are all Kutincans, whether they belong to a political option or not. We should all care about Petrochemy Kutina, what Petrochemy produces is what we care about who we do agricultural production. But Petrochemy Kutina is one of the few industrial plants the Republic of Croatia has. Since it is possible for those who sell gas to sell it 20% on average more expensive than it is on the market, to make extra profits and petrochemicals that sell their fertilisers on the free market at market prices with this huge loss. The years of that 20%... something over 300 million kuna, and the loss of petrochemicals for last year was expressed in terms of 146 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the government of the Republic of Croatia could do, if it wanted to do so, is give a guarantee to Petrokemia Kutina, to buy gas on the free market. Since Petrokemija Kutina is at a loss, has no own money and cannot pay off gas, it is forced to buy gas from the first gas company and from INA MOL who have united candidates for the capitalisation of petrochemicals. I think it's very easy for an ordinary man to calculate what he's doing in petrochemicals and why he's acting like a loser. Why petrochemicals are not allowed to buy raw materials, because gas is raw material on petrochemicals at market price to be competitive on the world market for artificial fertilisers. He won't say why we call HDZ, so the instrument that can help petrochemicals has HDZ, government, government president, most of them in the Croatian Parliament, means all instruments to help petrochemicals. So if that government can buy cell phones for 65 million kuna, then I think it can also give the petrochemicals 100-200 million kuna guarantees, not money, but just to guarantee that petrochemicals will pay for that day when they sell and turn their fertilisers on. I think it's very little that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do for 10700 employees in petrochemicals, since the HHcargo transport depends on petrochemicals, that 100% of traffic in the port of Sibenik depends on petrochemicals, that a large number of autocarers, means truck transport depends on petrochemicals, that one whole region is fed by petrochemicals, that many craftsmen and small entrepreneurs work for petrochemicals and earn their bread. And at the same time, if petrochemicals become just a warehouse, they'll all be out of work, but the whole region will slowly disappear. But since no one in this government cares that 300,000 people are the best working ability to leave Croatia, then they probably don't care, unless the Kutina petrochemicals are no longer the one where their employment will be found by 1700 people even though petrochemicals used to employ 4500 and was the center of originality in Kutina, but also in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66638	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66639	Respect, ladies and gentlemen. The state of shipbuilding is chromatic and horrifying. In third May, co-operatives have been waiting for them for months to pay off, rightly there is no vision of the solution, which is also the worst, nor does it publicly come forward with the goal of seeking the same, which means that the administration is as senseless as the government. As far as the Oilies are concerned, the oil is actually waiting to be fired by half the employees, the question is whether the shipbuilding will continue there and what will be built. And why do I say that? Because the Brodosplit that got the most state support, meaning according to what I read, got a billion-and-a-half kuna support, and as much as it did, means the privateer that took over the new ships. That's the essential question. Did he get that billion and a half kuna to do shipbuilding, or to do something else? Then someone else could come and say, listen, I'd deal with what I don't know and give me a billion and a half kuna and I'll do it. I'm afraid that the fate of Brodosplit is also catastrophic, because without these billions and a half kunas, or, without great incentives, the question is how the Shiposplit will function. And I'm going to give another example here is Brodotrogir, he says, "Before the privatisation, the Shkver was operating on 2.1 billion kuna of income, while only 149 million revenues were reported in 2016." That would mean that income fell more than 10 times, that income fell 15, 16 times. Is that where this shipyard ends, what's gonna happen to the workers? Does anyone in this government ask that question? I didn't hear. It is seen in the EU as some kind of rescue solution, and it is the EU that has actually sought to liquidate shipbuilding. And I'd like to point out actually the fundamental macro problem. Someone will say, shipbuilding is not worth it in Croatia. Someone will say here's a gentleman from HSS who will say that Petrochemy Kutina is unprofitable. But that's true, but the question is, what is our monetary policy, what is our exchange rate, what are the interest on loans, what are the taxes? To that question, no one in the government is giving any answers. And I ask you ladies and gentlemen, with a policy like this, economically, is anything worth it? Shouldn't it be surprising that industrial production in Croatia is not worth it. But what was the state doing? The state told people, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry about monetary policy, don't worry about tax policy. Let the kuna remain strong, let the interest remain great. We'll help the industry with incentives. We'll give you money, so it doesn't matter what production is invaluable. But the state didn't tell those workers a little secret. She didn't tell them that at some point she would stop with the incentives, that at some point she would stop issuing guarantees, that at some point she would actually put the key in the lock for the rest of the Croatian industry. That's not what the state told the workers. And for this situation, unfortunately, it's not just the government. It is the workers, both the workers of Petrokemia and the shipyards who have supported this policy in the elections for years, which has now led to their collapse and collapse. And these workers should be asked for themselves, each for my family, did I do when the election decisions were made, did I vote as well for me and my family, for my business, for my neighbors, for my city, for my country. That's what we should be asking ourselves. But all of them in short-sighted thinking simply supported the policy that has led them now where it has led them, and this is an uncertain and uncertain future and ultimately the disappearance of jobs, the disappearance of industry and, in fact, the decommissioning of our country slowly, the euthanasia all under the stick of the European Union from Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u66640	Thank you. We will now continue with the agenda, and in accordance with the proposal of the home working body and agreement of the club of representatives we will conduct a joint discussion on the following three points - Proposal for a law on areas and the headquarters of the state's attorneys, first reading, P.Z. No. 299 - Proposal for a law on State's Attorney's Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 297 - Proposal for a law on the State's Attorney's Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 302 The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable State Secretary at the Justice Department, Mr. Christian Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74735	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. There's a second part of the package in front of you. It's actually laws that are interrelated that affect each other. So, first of all, I'd like to refer to the State's Attorney's Office Act. But the changes, of course, are related by reference to the Law on the State's Attorney's Council. What we essentially wanted to achieve with these changes is to systematically regulate regulations, organisational regulations relating to the State's Attorney's Office. The Law on the State's Attorney's Office so far has actually been quite impenetrable due to the numerous changes that have been made to it. It included many of those provisions that did not actually fall within the organisational regulations such as procedural provisions that are more appropriate to the Rules of Procedure, so we removed those provisions. In addition, there were plenty of provisions concerning judicial cooperation in criminal matters between Member States of the European Union. We have singled out these provisions, and soon the government will be subject to legislation, amendments to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union in which those provisions are now incorporated. We also set out provisions relating to the State's Attorney's Council. Analysing what we have in the Law of the State Judiciary Council. In addition, a series of provisions addressed to these changes concern better regulation, better governance, clearer regulation of the framework for the functioning of that part of the State's Attorney's Office which protects the property interests and rights of the Republic of Croatia. An important change has taken place with regard to provisions relating to the choice of the attorney general. In accordance with the recommendations of GRECO, we have now defined the procedure more clearly. We have introduced a higher level of transparency in a way that six months before the term of office of the Attorney General of State will call for interested candidates with their résumés and with a proposal for a work programme. Such a proposal means the candidates go to the government who will seek relevant opinions and will then propose a candidate for the main state lawyer to the Croatian Parliament. So, similar to the election of the Supreme Court president, we have also limited the mandate of the attorney general to a maximum of two mandates. Important changes have occurred in the arrangement of the civil-government department of the State Attorney's Office, which have so far been insufficient in the existing legislative framework, and have in some way reflected the second-class position of the civil and property department in the State's attorney's office itself, and we thought through the affirmation of these provisions to give equal relevance to this department, in particular by representing the very important interests of the Republic of Croatia. As for better governance, in short as with the Law on Courts, we have introduced a director, we have introduced changes around municipal and county state attorneys, so we believe that there will be further improvement of work, and for the monitoring of work in the State's Attorney's Report we have introduced changes as to how it should be structured to analyse the work of the State's Attorney's Office from previous years. We think it's very important in this respect so far that the data that you've been getting through the annual reports has always been only referred to in relation to last year, from which you can't really analyze trends, you can't follow phenomena. We are now asking for data to be given over the last five years, where you can see if we have positive or negative trends in work. Also raising the quality in terms of the application of European Union law and regulations, i.e. the Court of Human Rights' standard to... propose to establish services that will be provided to all State lawyers with assistance in working on these cases. In the same way we strengthened the quality provisions, we introduced an evaluation very clearly, we determined how much it is for quality, quantity, as much for the regulation of state-of-law conduct professional experience and other activities. We have served strict responsibilities and we have also provided provisions on the ethical code and, of course, as regards property cards, we have prescribed that they must be placed on the website of the State-Law Council. Compared to the draft law on the state-law council, these changes were also meant to ensure quality and evener territorial representation in the state-law council. Therefore, the most important changes relate to the composition of the State-Law Council. But right here, on the trail of what I was saying earlier, we asked to take care of equal representation of both the criminal and the civil justice department within the State's Attorney's Council. Strengthening objectivity in the appointment procedures, introducing clear criteria, then, I have already said something in strengthening the responsibility of state-level attorneys. Changes are related to their activities outside the conduct of a state-of-the-art attorney's office where a higher level of transparency is sought, therefore, in the future as well as in relation to judges and state attorneys outside the state's attorney's office, they will have to get the consent of the State's Attorney's Council, which will actually ensure that all the deputies of state lawyers and state lawyers have equal treatment. The provisions on the strict responsibility of the deputy state attorneys have been further elaborated and specified, and in particular calling for the precise part of the irregular conduct of the duties and not justifiable failure to perform the duties. The provisions on progress have been tightened, the County State's Attorney's Office needs to be promoted from 8 to 10 years in the conduct of our duties. Strengthening the independence of the State's Attorney's Office is an analogous way that the Ministry no longer participates in the appointment, giving an opinion to candidates for state lawyers. This is why I only touched very briefly on the proposal to amend the law on areas and the seats of the state's attorney's offices. So, as we were saying, not all courts were given full jurisdiction also the state's attorney's office estimated that there was no need and no staff capacity to set up the service, an additional service in Split, as one could cover both Split 1 and Split 2, so only 3 additional services, i.e. state's attorneys, municipal state's attorneys, were in Metkovic, Pazin and Vinkovci. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74736	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will be spoken by respected representative Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Allow me since this is today the first presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, to congratulate all women on Women's Day, March 8th and especially colleagues of MPs in this Croatian Assembly. We are now in this second section of the law package relating to how the Government says the judicial reform it proposes, and I will concentrate on exposing certain key changes relating to the State's Attorney's Law, namely the selection procedure of the State's Attorney General. As you know, we are about to have a choice or re-election of the attorney general for about a month and a half, because it seems to me that somewhere in the second half of April this year, the mandate of the attorney general stands out. Otherwise, as the procedure is now envisioned, it is the main state attorney's election procedure, it is purely political. The main state attorney proposes the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, with the previous opinion of the Committee responsible, the Committee on Justice, appointed it as the Croatian Parliament for 4 years. And that's what the Constitution defined, but for years we've been faced with the suggestions and recommendations of GREC, so, the anti-corruption groups to make this procedure less political, to make it depolitical, to make it transparent, to include in that election procedure the state-law council that is also today in the changes to the law and are telling us since 2014. So, somewhere along the way, since we chose the present and then the convocation of the Croatian Parliament when he chose Mr. Cvitan as chief state attorney. In the meantime, since we were in this Croatian Parliament, at least I speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most in more than two years we haven't really been able to discuss the State's Attorney General's Report for 2015, nor for 2016, for 2017 we should only get somewhere to discuss it now. And the question arises how to discuss and decide how to appoint, elect or re-election of the main state attorney when this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and the previous one did not discuss his report at all, his work, what he thought he was doing well, that it worked well for the State's Attorney's office and what he believes should be qualitatively changed and in the regulation of these laws which are now subject to debate. Would it not be much better for us to have had the opportunity to hear these reports and to see, on the basis of these reports, which direction should we change these laws? But given the time, I'm going to concentrate on the election process because at this point I consider it the most important for the future of the State's Attorney's Office. It's still about choosing the attorney general. We, therefore, had enough opportunities, did not follow GREC's recommendations as to how to make the main state attorney's choice more quality, more transparent, less dependent on political judgment, more depoliticise him not only in the process of appointment, but also in the process of possible resolution. And it is extremely important that we make the main state attorney more independent than the executive and that he really be an independent and independent judicial body. But we can also do so through the appointing process, but also by carefully regulating the reasons why it can be relieved of its duties. I note that in October 2016 we received a new report from GREC in which they made a summary of the recommendations that were respected and embedded in the Croatian normative framework and those that were not incorporated. And on the appointment of a state lawyer, they concluded that we did not install their recommendations in our legislation, and in particular that in the appointment process we would include the State Attorney's Council and that we would strengthen their role, that the main state attorney would be able to be elected from the ranks of state attorneys, that the election would be time-defined and limited to two mandates, that it would be transparent, that we would have a public call for all candidates, that a public call would be made at least 6 months before the term of office of the attorney general and that the list of candidates who meet the conditions of the National Attorney's Council's opinion would be addressed to the Government for adoption of the proposal. This was concluded in October 2016 in talks with GREC as the basis of the draft law which would thus define the appointment of the attorney general. Both in this direction and with these recommendations worked by the then Justice Minister from the Bridge along with his expert group. And we would like to install these recommendations from GREC in the Proposal for a Law which will refer to the procedure with the existing two Laws on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council. But since we now have a debate in the first reading of the bill that regulates the election, but only partly goes in the direction that the GREC asks us to do, that it goes in the direction of one re-election, a public call that the State's Attorney's Council will send to all candidates six months before the term of office of the attorney general, we must point out that part of the bill in which the government's proposal does not follow the recommendations of GREC. The State's Attorney's Council on your proposal is, in fact, an administrative technical body that will receive the candidates' applications and refer them to the government and nothing else. So, a mere transmission. In the proposal on which we will insist and, if necessary, submit an amendment, we will ask that the State Attorney's Council, with a proposal from the candidate who will refer to the Government, draw up an opinion for each candidate in terms of the quality of the person who meets the formal conditions. But each of these candidates has a certain career behind him, achievements, and that's not irrelevant. And what we would like those candidates to come from the ranks of the state's attorneys, that as much as possible be depolitized by the process of appointment and that we can't really spread too much of the circle of people who might be proposed for that function. That's what we're going to suggest if you won't follow these proposals yourself in making the final bill. We think it's very important and that in this way we will fully objectify the procedure for the appointment of the attorney general. Of course, this part that refers to a public call six months ahead is the part that we want to suggest ourselves. That's also something that GREC insisted on. What we think is not well solved in the bill you're proposing, these are the reasons for the resolution of the attorney general. In particular, those you provide for in paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the articles that define it. It is, in fact, the following reasons: - that if the chief state attorney does not take action under his authority to work effectively for the State's Attorney's Office, - if for no good reason he does not implement the work programme in the process of appointing the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, - if the State's Attorney is not fulfilling the satisfactory results of the work. I read on purpose these three paragraphs to expose how subjectively the Government could evaluate the work of the State's Attorney's Office possibly considering launching its resolution procedure. So we are aware of the fact that we had reports from the President, or the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest which was accepted almost unanimously in this Croatian Assembly, of course the Committee could not have been resolved before the end of the term of office, but the fact is that most of the members of that Committee, 3 out of 5, did not get the right to a new second term in that body. And that, of course, is also a message about their work, or opinion of the ruling majority. That is why we would absolutely suggest that these items are not in the final draft of the law because they allow a great possibility for the government to subjectively but of course we know for political reasons suggest a resolution of the main state attorney. Even the fact that the reports of the main state attorney are not being held for years for debate in this Croatian Parliament although they are included in the agenda, therefore, depends exclusively on the President of the Croatian Parliament to choose the day in which these reports will be discussed. We therefore rightly point out that this situation cannot certainly be accidental and we suggest that, as long as you think there is no time to take one additional day off in the Croatian Parliament in which we will discuss these reports but absolutely before any decision on the appointment of a new chief state attorney. To end on behalf of the Club, I would like to say this, you have provided for this law to enter into force, I am talking about the Law on the State Attorney's Office, to enter into force on 1 September 2018, which means that by that logic we should appoint a new chief state attorney by the old, under current law, by existing legal provisions which have not been incorporated into any GREC recommendation, and if the law were passed on to the choice of that future chief state attorney in 2022, the provisions of this law would apply. It's absolutely unacceptable to us. What we would suggest is the following, we can, here today we have a first reading of this law, a second reading can come about in a month after you see the debate on these legal proposals after the government's procedure has passed, to pass a law with quality provisions when it comes to the selection of the attorney general and that these provisions and these appointment procedures apply to the selection of the chief state attorney, and that the current attorney general remains in office for that time. We think it's a few months tops, it's true that a public call is scheduled 6 months before the end, of course it wouldn't be possible to apply it in a specific case, but it can be incorporated into the law by transitional provisions according to which we could have different deadlines in the upcoming situation to elect a top state attorney. But I think it's clear to you what we want to say at the Mosta Club, if we're already prescribing a new quality, transparent procedure, we're installing GREC's recommendations only logically to apply them to the selection of the main state attorney who's coming to us, not to tell GRECU that we've passed the law that we're adopting, we're installing their recommendations, but we're going to implement it 4 years later in 2022. If we really want reform, if this is really a commitment to the government, then they'll appreciate what we just said, the Bridge proposal, so let's apply these provisions to the selection of the main state attorney to come to us in a very short time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74738	Thank you very much, Mr. Podolnjak. Thank you. We don't have any replicas. Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74739	I thank you for that, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my debate on this package of laws concerning the work of the State's Attorney's Office with what my colleague Milenić was saying today when he spoke on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of the three laws relating to the work of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to read something that could be read in the European Commission's report, which is quite often mentioned today. The European Commission report on page 10 therefore states: The reform of the judicial area map improves the efficiency of the system. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, in one for Croatia with a particularly unfavourable report, there is one area for a wonderful miracle I must say because in the case of the judiciary we are not used to very positive assessments from the European Union set out as a relative good. And what's our reaction? So at a time when we have an extremely, extremely unfavourable opinion from the European Commission in the area where this opinion is positive because that opinion welcomes the progress made by the current rationalization of the system, we are breaking and returning not entirely, but partly to what was old. So just as it was with what's called judicial reform, then it's not. And here is one of the basic things that lies behind this package of three laws of one redistribution. The redistribution of the area and the headquarters of the state lawyers in a far smaller extent than in the case of the area and the courts' seats. It's only about three state's attorneys. And what does that show? This shows that the redistribution of the area and the seat of the courts was not so well designed or so needed. Because if we create new municipal courts and say that there are needs behind them, how come this need does not follow and the work of the State's Attorney's Office which represents not only in criminal matters but also in civil matters of the Republic of Croatia in the proceedings before these courts? This shows that redistribution is under consideration, and I call it redistribution because this reform is not particularly in the court-related section, driven by more political and less legal or real objective criteria. Once again, I will repeat what we have said in law concerning courts and welcome the announcement of the minister who guaranteed the delivery of data. We expect that by the second reading, we will have data on the number of cases, on the burden of working both the courts and the state's attorneys, which will show that the formation of these three state's attorneys was based on objective, on real criteria, and not on certain political ones. Regardless of what I should welcome as a local patriot in the case of the court and in the case of state attorneys, the establishment of the one in Pazin and, of course, I like it as a local patriot, but still as a representative, I have a responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also to the Republic of Croatia and the body in which I am sitting, in which I am chosen to ask that I be clearly shown that all these formations that we are discussing today will not only cost but also lead to some stagnation in the work of the system. Because every system when we change it is justified by real criteria, and I'm going to repeat once again not to the day-to-day policy criteria or the pressure criteria that the mayor has been harassing you more to re-institute a court or state attorney's office. But we go back to other laws, not just those concerning the area and headquarters of the state's attorneys. As in the case of laws relating to courts, and here we have two things to greet. First of all, it's definitely about the property cards. Of course we welcome the publication of property cards and this is a good measure that will lead to increased transparency in the work of the system. I'm also only partially lying to my colleague, Dolnjak. We also welcome the measures concerning the regulation of the election of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. In both cases, however, we haven't done the job again. We introduce property cards or their publication, but as in the case of courts, take a look at how it was settled in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The same things as the Law on Courts or the State Judicial Council are repeated, and that is good because the laws are harmonised. And now the State's Attorney and State Judicial Council will work on the same criteria. But let us bring this into line with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and in the future whenever we change some measures, then we shall make sure that all issues of property cards for all officials in the Republic of Croatia were settled in an equal manner for all government officials, local officials or judicial officials, so that it is easier to monitor if someone violated the law that it is immediately clear what it is and that, of course, sanctions for such treatment are predictable. The second thing about choosing a top state attorney first is, I didn't want to replicate because I really don't think there's any need for that to happen when I speak right behind an esteemed colleague, the part relating to the extension of the current state's attorney. I'm afraid that's not possible. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia laid down the term of office of a state lawyer for four years. And the Croatian Parliament has no opportunity to extend the current mandate or appoint it to one mandate that would last just a year. Eventually, it could possibly be regulated by the transitional and final provisions of this law that the next chief state attorney must be elected within a certain period of time from the entry into force of this law. And as far as the proposal is concerned, I leave it to each of you to think about it in person, and I assume that colleagues from the Bridge will submit an amendment in that direction, and then we'll vote on it. However, the remark I have is that the chief state attorney has also had a lack of security clearance. So the attorney general when he was elected enters the system. He doesn't have to be from the system. It could be anyone who meets certain legal requirements. But after his term of office has ceased, even though he was not from the system, he remains in the system as deputy attorney general. And we don't have a security clearance. In view of the fact that it is a man who is at the head of a part of the repressive apparatus of the Republic of Croatia responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences, it is clear that we must be absolutely certain that there are no tails behind him that could compromise the way he behaves. However, here the problem is not only with the chief state attorney, but in my opinion, the problem arises also in the election of deputy chief state attorney and county state attorneys. They are subject to the exception that in case they come from the system, therefore, in case someone from the municipal state attorney's position progresses for the county state's attorney or the deputy county state attorney's deputy chief state attorney not to carry out a security check. I'll repeat again, we know what kind of system it is, we know the risks and the corrupt risks that these people are exposed to, and I believe that this kind of control, no matter how expensive it is, but also the time-consuming, low price compared to the security that we're going to get that people around who have doubts or don't give God there are no doubts that they shouldn't be in the system, they're still not allowed to advance. So in that part, I hold that it is necessary to amend the law. Now let me move a little bit away from the content of the law, given that this is about a package relating to the State's Attorney's Office as an organization as a whole, saying something that particularly bothers me about the state's relation to the State's Attorney's office. This law changes the provisions that apply not to the State's Attorney General's report, and that's good. But what's the problem? The problem is that the Croatian Parliament has not yet discussed the State's Attorney's Office's reports for 2015 and 2016, and we are in March 2018. The state's chief attorney we spoke of is now on duty, I think he was elected on 7 March 2014. More than 4 years ago, his term expires on 24 April 2018, so in a month and a half. We should discuss whether we will re-election him on this duty, whether we will choose someone else on this duty, and we in the Croatian Parliament who should make such a decision have not discussed the state of the system in the last three years. I believe that it is absolutely unacceptable and I will be, and I keep being bold when I say that given the recent statements of some well-known media people, it seems like we're letting Mamic frame us who's going to be the head of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. It's a shame to me, it's totally unacceptable to me. In short, I'll be done with it. This isn't reform! This is not a mini reform, this is a series of technical changes to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Council and the area and headquarters of the State's Attorney's Office. In one part of the good in the other part of the bad because it is a redistribution of the headquarters of these State lawyers without any reasoned criteria. At this point, given all the above, we from the SDP Representatives Club cannot support these proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74740	Thank you, too. You have one replica. Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let's just continue the conversation that my colleague Grbin said when he was showing up for the part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74742	Excuse me, Mr. Downhill. When did you raise your hand, now or before? Before, fine, I appreciate it. Here you go. No, no, it wasn't about you, you have half a minute more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74743	Okay, thanks. So, when counterpart Grbin said the inability to extend the term of office of four years to the attorney general. So it is clear that according to the Constitution, the mandate is limited and there is no such situation as with constitutional judges that there is some additional deadline. But what motivated me for this proposal is the fact that time must bridge the law's entry into force with our wish, and I suppose yours, too, that the election of a new head of state takes place under a new legal procedure. Of course, not all deadlines foreseen and now in this proposal can be applied public invitation 6 months before the end of the term of office. Of course that wouldn't be possible. But taking on one side what is positive to install the maximum transparent procedure required of us by GRECO, which we promised years ago in relation to the situation to apply it 4 years later, I think that transitional and final provisions can regulate this issue to speed up this procedure exceptionally only in selecting the next chief state attorney. So, eventually, to deviate from this public call of six months. Because otherwise, the only thing left to do is not carry out this procedure now, to elect this chief state attorney. But then the question arises, and why has it waited so long with this proposal and timed it at a time when it cannot be applied to the choice of the attorney general?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74744	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74745	Dear colleague, I was talking about dates, now I'm going to repeat them. Four years ago, we seemed to have chosen the Attorney General on March 7th. It's March 8th, not that we haven't chosen a new chief state attorney, but I don't know if a proposal has been put in place by the government at all. And in this context, I can really say that I share your concerns, because these measures, along with these proposals that I am saying that we will all agree on the need to carry out a security check, would further strengthen the election process and the very position of the attorney general. But I'm afraid that the Constitution doesn't give us much opportunity here, and the fact that we talked yesterday about that because of the duration of the consultation of only 15 days, we call on the Ministry to conduct a full-term consultation between the first and second readings, we also talked about the judgment of the High Administrative Court which abolished the general act because of the too brief consultation, although they explained it to us from the ministry, I suppose it also refers to these laws as well as to those who received a positive opinion from the Commissioner for Information. I wouldn't rush. As far as I'm concerned, let's pick the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. But then if we want what you're saying, then in the transitional and final provisions of the law, we can lay down a provision for a new chief attorney to be elected in a year, and then to carry out this whole procedure that you've predicted. And I think that would be a reasonable solution and I think it would be a good idea to get someone in a year who's going to be in full term for four years under new rules that limit the mandate, etc. conduct this extremely important duty for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74746	Thank you. Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74747	Mr. Chairman, I would refer to Mr. Grbin's exposure. I think it's great that for state attorneys it's the main, the county, the municipal and their deputies have to carry out a security check by law. I'd be something wider on those reasons that Mr. Grbin listed. So he thought of whether there were any criminal, corrupt backgrounds as an obstacle for certain people to be called state lawyers or their deputies. I would add here that in today's State Attorney's Office there are deputy state attorneys of municipal, county or main, I will concentrate on the county state attorney who today is a deputy state attorney working at the Department of War Crimes, and during the aggression on the Republic of Croatia he actively participated in the aggressor army and attacked the east of Croatia at an interval of 15 December 1991 to 9 January 1992 at an interval, and a few months later, two later again in the composition of the Serb aggressor army participated in the continuation of aggression in the Republic of Croatia. He's working as a deputy county attorney in Osijek today. He's working on war crimes. Goes to Belgrade, investigates the Ovcar case and co-operates with the state's attorney of the Republic of Serbia and channels an investigation into shooters in Ovcara.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74748	Thank you. Mr. Grubb's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74749	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be very brief. My colleague Glavas, last but last to speak the word war crime in this home, it's you. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74750	Mr. Demetlik. Please. Please, please. What article, please, Mr. Glavas? What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74751	293 293. Okay, now it doesn't matter at all. 238. I think this is incorrect by Mr. coat of arms. If it was necessary to replicate it and hold onto the replica, not personally to go after me and insult me. I supported his proposal as far as security checks are concerned. And as for someone talking about war crimes, maybe your uncle can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74752	Now, maybe when he answers, he won't need it anymore. ... You may. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74753	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, Article 238 states that a representative should not, by his conduct, deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. One of the general rules of conduct required of all of us is to tell the truth. And the truth is, I have an uncle in my family and I have an aunt. I'm afraid I don't have an uncle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74754	Now it should be up to me to warn you both two, two, or not to give anyone, so I won't give anyone a heads-up so we can all be at peace together. And I give my word to Mr. Demetlika who will for sure. And why did Mr. Demetlik pick it up before? What did you raise for Mr. Glavas? Is that a new coalition? No, I don't. Okay. Let's move on. Mr. Jelkovac Simic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74755	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm still just a Jelkovac, and my colleague Simic will be right behind me, and I'll be right behind you. ... It's all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's all right. [[No, no, it's my fault.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74756	.../Intruder Radin: No. I married you to a new one. I'm sorry. I mean, it's my big fault. My sin, my sin, my sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74757	No, everything's fine. Here's a little bit of these two laws. Proposal for a Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council, and then a colleague will discuss a proposal for a third law that we are discussing in this set. Therefore, as regards the proposal for a law on the State Attorney's Office which is now in force in 2009 and has been amended several times, I must say that the main objective of actually proposing the adoption of this new law is to systematically, its systematic arrangement as a primarily organisational regulation, and by abandoning the provisions that do not belong to this law in its content, but to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, and to abandon the procedural provisions laid down in this law which are not necessarily prescribed by the law of the legal rank. It is also proposed to segregate from the law provisions relating to the work of the State's Attorney's Council in a special law. Of course, it is expected that the aim of implementing this bill will ultimately be to increase the effectiveness and transparency of the work of the State's attorney's office itself. In this connection, the amendments achieve the definition of clear criteria and procedures for the appointment of the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia, and now in the way that the State Lawyer's Council makes a public call to all interested candidates who are obliged to submit the programme and résumé, and then the candidates received are forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who proposes to the Croatian Assembly of Candidates for the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. In line with GREC recommendations, it is also proposed to limit the term of office of the attorney general to a maximum of two mandates. It is also one of the objectives of a more comprehensive regulation of the conduct of civil legal, civil and administrative departments of attorneys, because of the importance of these departments for the protection of property rights and the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is also one of the objectives of better governance of the state's attorneys. So far, we have had the situation that this has been entrusted to state attorneys and secretaries of the state's attorneys, the proposed amendments foresee the introduction of the Director of the State's Attorney's Office and that in order to affirmate it as a manager, which would contribute to a more efficient management of the state's attorney. What is important is that the work of state lawyers is monitored in accordance with accepted indicators developed and proposed at Council of Europe level, and it is essential that the annual report of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia be structured in a way that is methodologically required by such methods of monitoring of judicial work. It is therefore also proposed to define more precisely the content of the annual report of the main state attorney, which he submits here in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, the objective of raising the quality of the application of the European Union rules and of the European Court of Human Rights standard is to provide for institutional strengthening of national attorneys through the establishment of contact with the European Union acquis, the European Court of Justice rulings and the European Court of Human Rights rulings. These persons will then be set up in the County State Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to assist other state lawyers and their deputies. In order to strengthen responsibility in the State's attorney's office, amendments to the way in which the state's attorneys and their deputies are evaluated have been proposed. Also raising transparency in respect of the ethical code and strengthening and redefining the role of judicial inspection. Therefore, the newspaper says that the property cards of the state's attorneys will be made public. What I am saying is that the HDZ Club will support this proposal, but we propose to the promoter to consider between these two readings the possibility to prescribe that state lawyers and their first deputies must be from different departments meanings from criminal and civil-government, and for the reason that they actually have the following situation, by 2000, the public defendership represented the Republic of Croatia and protected its property and property rights, and by amending the Constitution of the Public Attorney's Office, which continues to act as a civil and administrative department. According to current practice, deputy state attorneys from the criminal departments have been appointed at the head of state's attorneys' offices. Given the importance of jobs and civil and administrative departments at the breadth of their activities on the value of the assets of the Republic of Croatia, which they worry about, we consider that the civil and administrative department has been unjustly abandoned in this way in the conduct of these duties. We therefore propose to consider this possibility in order to make it more even in the future. The possibility of redefining the role of the Ministry of Justice should also be considered. In the process of adopting framework criteria and acts which would regulate the evaluation process, taking into account the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice for the overall functioning of the system. Namely, framework criteria have not been regularly changed and aligned with procedural and other legislative amendments so that we propose that this be considered to speed up the whole process. As far as the proposal for a law on the State's Attorney's Council is concerned, I would like to say that it is a good thing that it is singled out in a special law that regulates then the work of the State's Attorney's Council. They shall be amended by this proposal for a provision on the composition of members of the Council of Deputy State Lawyers in order to ensure territorial representation and representation in the fields of work of members of the Council again related to criminal and civil administrative departments. The conditions of at least 5 years of office in the State Attorney's Office for candidate council members shall be laid down to ensure the quality of the higher quality of work of the Council. New powers shall be given to the council for deciding to grant approval to the deputy attorneys of the state to conduct other tasks with the state's attorney's office. The procedure for the appointment of deputy state attorneys is then regulated in order to make it more transparent and objective, setting points under which candidates who do not have that limit number of points would not be able to access the interview, and, of course, the obligation of the state-guarantee Council to stick strictly to the order and points that the candidates have made in the appointment decision. The conditions for the appointment of deputy county attorneys of 10 are also laid down instead of 8 years of office. The mandate of a State Attorney shall also be limited to a maximum of two mandates and shall also be subject to the management of the control of the property cards of state lawyers and their deputies and their availability to the public by publication on the DOV website. Here's briefly about these two laws so much, and my colleague will now continue. The HDZ Club will accept both of these proposals because we believe that, in accordance with other laws in this mini judicial reform, they will contribute to the efficiency of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74758	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jelkovac. And now Mr. Simic, so it's clear that these are two speakers. Here you go, Mr. Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74759	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us today is the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys established by county and municipal state attorneys, their fields and seats in which they will operate. At the very beginning of my presentation on behalf of the Club, I will actually present the existing situation, present some history of reforms as they flowed through the years. I will also present some of the changes proposed by this law. And in the end, I will conclude the Club's position against the new bill. We all know that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the law. As such, it represents one of the highest institutions in our country, and we believe that its current network organisation has proved to be insufficiently well-organised and is currently not adequate and insufficiently effective. The rationalisation of the network of municipal and state attorneys was carried out in 2008, 2010 and 2015. These processes reduced the number of municipal state lawyers from 71 to 22, and the number of county state lawyers from 21 to 15 and changed the areas of jurisdiction of state lawyers who followed changes in the area of jurisdiction of municipal and county courts. As mentioned today in the earlier debate, since the current network organisation of courts has proved to be inadequate or insufficiently effective in providing protection to citizens and the economy, it is necessary to access its new organisation. A network of municipal and county attorneys should therefore be coordinated with the new organisation of the network of courts proposed in today's law. However, here we must also respect the specific nature of the state's attorney's office as a particular type of judicial body. In fact, one of the fundamental starting points of the proposed network of judicial authorities is that the networks of these two types of judicial bodies do not necessarily have to be consistent. The reason is that state attorneys are primarily taken into account, which takes into account the efficiency and economy of the work of state lawyers, while the most important reason is therefore for the establishment of a network of courts to ensure that courts are made available to citizens and to encourage the development of those areas that are no longer the courts’ seats and are not the headquarters of some other state bodies. Thus, in addition to 22 existing state attorneys, the establishment of three new municipal state attorneys based in Metkovic, Pazin and Vinkovci is proposed. So in addition to 15 county attorneys' offices, 25 municipal state lawyers would have them. In fact, we have witnessed how often we hear on the street when it comes to the Law on Areas and Courts, which reduced the number of municipal and county or commercial courts, and then we had one longer period of time to implement and apply the laws, how we actually changed only the inscriptions on the facades and only the boards on the building facades, in fact everything remains the same. However, whoever knows the situation in the judiciary knows that it is simply not the case. The first and true race of such organisations, the possibility of better organisation of trial, judicial affairs and state-owned affairs, then more efficient, more professional, faster and more independent trial or conduct of state lawyers is more equal use of existing resources such as human potentials, information equipment, official vehicles, etc. Therefore, it is also trying to achieve a much better possibility of organising work processes in the state's attorneys or courts. As regards the financing of the implementation of this law, the funds are foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 in the division of 110 of the Ministry of Justice, and we see that additional funds will be needed to upgrade the information system, and they are therefore planned to finance these transactions are planned from the European Union Fund or the European Social Fund. I think there is no doubt that, from the beginning of the reform of the judiciary, much progress has been made to this day, first and foremost, in creating a legislative and institutional framework for an independent, impartial, professional and effective judiciary, which should ultimately contribute to the rule of law and the legal certainty of citizens, as well as to their quality and rapid judicial protection. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will therefore support the bill's proposal in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74760	Thank you very much. You have one replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74761	You're saying to a colleague that a fair settlement is now the headquarters of the state's attorneys as well as the courts. I'll repeat once again that's incorrect. That the law that we had in front of the seats and areas of the courts, and they also bond with the state's attorneys that injustice was done, that this law was essentially in the very conclusion. To the very opinion that the Split court is a huge system and that this is why it goes into these legal changes and that the courts we have mean municipal from 24 to 34. And also now to 34 by 10 more, and the state's attorney's office also because the municipal state's attorneys are also increasing the number, and you've listed which to simply split the part i.e. The part of the Dalmatian Zagora remained on the same i.e. It is attached to Split 2, and not Split, and the Split State Attorney's Office remains in Split, not in Dalmatia. And I have to tell you once again that only the Cetin region per population is as much as Ličko-Senj County, and it's much larger by the number of square kilometers surface than Međimurje County. Which means that this law does not correct the fundamental injustices mentioned in the Commission's opinion which has reached the conclusion that these changes should be made to the seat of courts and state attorneys. We're talking state's attorneys here. Therefore, there is no correction of injustice here but rather a precedent was made in the European Union that a city such as Split has two state attorneys, Split for Split, Split 1 and Split 2 for the Dalmatian Zagora. As a result, it should be the state's attorney's office and courts should be located in Sinj. It's the only justice for the Dalmatian Zagora.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74762	That was directed to Mr. Simic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74763	Dear fellow Bull, I thank you first of all for your replica. I must admit that here I come from a small area, therefore, from Slavonia or a region that we often consider to be neglected by many parameters and many questions. And he might agree with you when, in law and in this text, the law accompanying the law in the light of the law does not seem to be that the main reasons for the adoption of this law and the main race which the proposer of this law was led, the efficiency and economy of the work of the state's attorney. I think it's the most transparent actually and the best criterion for determining the justification for the existence of a particular institution in a particular area. So here I would just answer that it might be better if we had more often proposals that were led by this kind of lunch then it would certainly be better for us in society in all spheres. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74764	Thank you. Let's move on with the clubs. Mr Branimir Bunjac, in front of the Living Wall and SNAGE's Club of Representatives. Here you go, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74765	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, happy Women's Day. Dear colleagues, a respected secretary of state with an associate. We have here today three laws on the State's Attorney's Office in a united debate. Yesterday we had three laws on courts, also in a united debate as we saw yesterday no major changes in courts will be. And also no major changes will be made around the state's attorney's office. Namely, these laws that are before us are also dealing with the organization, dealing with technical matters, dealing with the way lawyers choose, dealing with territorial jurisdiction, and in essence solving nothing important, although this topic is very interesting for Croatian citizens and generally for the public and the media. The fact that these laws don't essentially solve anything best tells you the public debate that's been carried out on these laws and where we see with a letter and a number that two people have come forward, which means that people have realized that there's really nothing out of these changes to the law. What would be more important to answer and what would people want to know about the DORH why the DORH selectively decides against who they're going against and who they're not going against? Why do some actions go very quickly, and some can't get in line for years? Why is there no unique criterion on which the indictments, or investigations, must be initiated? I'm also wondering why the DORH hasn't been able to trace any of the only secret accounts lately? And we know that there are, we know that from Croatia, millions disappear through corruption, actually billions. What made the fight against corruption stop, who's been accused of corruption in the first place lately? We've had some rough attempts by former Prime Minister Kosor, and we've had some individual cases later, but that's no longer being talked about, although all citizens, and even the employees of the judicial authorities that we presented yesterday know that there is corruption, in fact, there is a consensus among all Croatian citizens. I'm also interested in why the DORH doesn't check the discrepancy in property cards. So we have cases that some people have, earn millions, and there's nothing written in the property cards, nothing, they're poorer than people who work for a minimumer. Let's say our Governor Vujčić, he doesn't have an apartment, no car, no savings, no shares, no nothing, and he makes 100,000 euros a year net. While his deputy CNB has 37 million kuna assets at the same time. Based on which he pays? Based on which he pays? So who in Croatia can make 37 million kunas during their entire working life for 40 years? No one, no one has a salary like that. So someone could make that kind of money he'd have to pay 80,000 kuna a month for 40 years without eating, without spending anything, pay the director, etc. Why doesn't that little disproportionate of that DORH test? That would be a very interesting question. The DORH says we don't have money, we don't have people, we don't have conditions. In the 2018 budget, we see that there are quite enough funds that are actually increasing, there are over 60 million kunas with the State's Attorney's Office having 1,700 employees. Like they don't? They have everything they need. We saw when Agrokor was an affair that they got another 5 million extra from the government just for that special case. Interestingly, the ministry has managed to write three laws and bring them to the Parliament, and is unable to analyse the report since 2015. So now explain to me how it is possible to write and bring this up so quickly, and the report since 2015 cannot be analysed even though it has been here on the agenda since the time of the Government of Tim Oreshkovic. Is there a new Rules of Procedure waiting that people can't talk about it, or is it waiting for four o'clock in the morning for that topic to be put on the agenda so that no one can talk about it or hear anything? What I am particularly interested in and never responsible for the Croatian public, did the State's Attorney's Office participate in the assembly of the parliamentary majority and still maintain it? Is it true that the votes of the mayor of Zagreb are bought by the inaction of the DORH here in the Assembly and the votes of the CNS and individual defections from other parties? That would be a very interesting question when we're talking about DORH. Let's just say it's amazing to me that last year around this time in the spring, Mr. Vrdoljak was in the face of shouting to the Prime Minister that he was a liar and that he destroyed Agrokor, that his government was called Titanic Government, that on 8.5.2017, he asked me to sign and we all to sign a motion to recall the government, so that in just a few days he would tear down his own candidate for the mayor of Zagreb and 7. The 6th signed a coalition with HDZ. I really can't figure it out. I can't take it any different than blackmailing her. If that blackmail came from the ranks of the DORH or from some other circles, I'd like to be answered. I am much more interested in this than whether the State's Attorney's Office is in Vrgorec or Sinj with all due respect for Mr. Bulj. I would like to know whether some investigations against Mr. Vrdoljak have been conducted in the media about the withdrawal of money from HEP, about Kiosk's operation, about the convenience of employment in HEP, in Plinacro, Janaf, in state agencies such as those for pressure equipment, whether it is true about forgiving tax debt. We saw yesterday that Mr. Milosevic was very angry when we mentioned that the state was forgiving him of his tax debt. And it's easy being such an entrepreneur. We'd all be entrepreneurs when we come into debt, when we have problems the state forgives, and you can get the Golden Kuna as the most private. So these are, say, interesting questions about the DORH. Now, it will never come to the agenda or it could come to the agenda, I say, but it's on the agenda one two, three years that report but it can't be started. It's obviously a forbidden topic in this House. So then the ruling furniture brings us these laws that you have absolutely nothing to say to. There are a lot of papers, but neither in the Parliament, nor in public consultation, nor in any other way in the media, none of this is considered important. Given such reforms, it is no wonder that the parliamentary majority lost 1/5 of its voters in just a year and a half. No wonder the public debt exploded at over 300 billion kuna. No wonder our credit rating sucks. It is also no wonder that our GDP slows down at a time when in all neighbouring countries it grows in record amounts. No wonder the lack of confidence in the judiciary is enormous, and so is the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Only good of these so-called. The reforms that come to us in the Parliament is that this government will indeed become a "Titanic Government" before they had hoped for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74766	Now, Mr Boris Milosevic will speak in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74767	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We're talking about important laws. I can see that somehow the work belt this afternoon is much smaller. I guess fellow MPs fired this morning on the first set of laws that applied to courts. I volunteered for this part of the state's attorney's office because I thought I had something to say. In any case, we should welcome these changes because they represent progress although this set of laws is ambitiously called the mini judicial reform. So since it is a mini-judicial reform, it would be a shame to miss that some of the more significant steps that would be needed in this system might be made. There's no one of us who doesn't think that our judiciary is a problem, that the judiciary is a cancer of the early society. Each of us is certainly familiar with someone and as a representative and as a citizen has come to us some case that burdens a citizen, if not us personally or a member of a family where we are not actually satisfied with how the judiciary worked, where the judiciary has failed where there is actually no satisfaction of justice or it is absolutely perverted. But here we go back to these three laws that I'd like to say. Therefore, it writes in the material, for example, that it wants a more complete regulation of the conduct of civil and administrative departments of state attorneys in the protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Well, the civil rights departments aren't exactly in the public's focus, and they're not in the focus of this House either, and they're really important to the State's Attorney's office. My personal position would actually be that this civil law department should separate therefore, that they should become either part of the ministry or any other separate body, but actually the government service because the text itself here says to protect the property's legal interests and interests of the Republic of Croatia. So, to separate from that crime scene, I think it would be a much more courageous reform. But for that, we would need a change of constitution. In any case, the civil justice department does not have the attention of the criminal department. There is no money, no budget, and I think it should actually focus on the civil law department that much more money should be invested in equipment, and in education, and I think it would be worth the long term to the Republic of Croatia, as well as to the citizens. And I'm going to say something about that after why I told the citizens. Actually, I'll say it right now. For example, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure in 2003 introduced a provision that regulates when a citizen wants to sue the Republic of Croatia, which is essentially what he must do. Thus, the Law says that the person intending to press charges against the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer to the competent state attorney's office before filing an action with a request for a peaceful solution to the dispute. If a party's request for a peaceful solution to the dispute is not accepted or is not resolved within 3 months of the date of its submission, the party may file a complaint against the court. The Law on Prosecution did not provide for any reason that would allow the State Attorney's Office to possibly extend that deadline or shorten its conduct. What actually happens very often in practice is that the State's Attorney's Office doesn't even show what's wrong. And so we have statistics from the latest report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2016, which says 6 thousand 239 requests for a peaceful solution to the dispute were received, and the DORH admitted on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in full or in part the requirements, which is why thousands and 4 deals and 16%, respectively. I think it's a very small percentage that's actually better than it was in earlier years. This provision was introduced in 2003 in order to reduce the number of disputes against the state in order to relieve courts and should, in essence, be encouraged by education, by investing in the State's Attorney's Office to make this percentage much greater so that state lawyers working on these individual cases or deputies are encouraged to enter into agreements not to go into disputes with a maximum court may decide, in fact by removing responsibility. So I certainly think this statistic should be a lot braver. Here the law here mentions or proposes the establishment of three new municipal state attorneys. I would also warn of the fact that we have a situation that in some places the institution of the municipal state's attorney has been abolished. So that we no longer have a judicial official in some places, and in my view, it has been reflected in certain problems that are no longer being solved, or cannot be solved in a quality way. Because as soon as we don't have a judicial official in some place in this case of a deputy municipal state attorney, citizens actually have a problem then in a communication that is just then reflected in this possibility of making a deal. That's what I mean from personal experience. It doesn't necessarily mean I'm right, but it's my seeing things. The other thing I'd like to point out here is the choice of a top state attorney who was told by some of my colleagues. This discussion of the procedure for the appointment and resolution of the main state attorney, according to the law, is in line with the recommendations of the Report of the Group of States against Corruption, or GREC. I think that's okay. But I also think that here the role of the State's Attorney's Council should, in my opinion, be much greater than what they are doing, so I suggest that the proposer consider that in this direction perhaps for a second reading and make an amendment to this proposed text of the law. Secondly, as I would like to say this, I have heard that some colleagues said the same in the debate, the fact is that the current chief state attorney stands out next month and that we should consider whether to choose a top state attorney for the next term under these old rules that are now in force or under the new rules proposed by these laws. So, I think we should consider that since it's simply a time frame, we should consider it. I understand that then we would have to hurry up with these laws, or with the bill's proposals, maybe even carry out a legal stunt in fact in some way extend our mandate to the current chief state attorney so that, under the new rules, we could choose the attorney general for the next term. But I don't think that would be a bad thing. In any case, I welcome the re-election limit to two mandates. What I'd still like to say is, I have enough time to point out. The State Attorney's Council shall, when it is working on the re-election or selection of deputy state attorneys, say, for example, the proposed text of the law that candidates who have achieved more than 130 points in accordance with the order set out. Extraordinary and less, etc. And it is said: “A maximum of 15 points can be made during the conversation. ” As I believe that the conversation is a very, very difficult category and subjective, I think that in order to increase objective criteria in the selection of deputy state attorneys, the number of points that are obtained during the interview should be reduced and I would suggest therefore, this is our proposal and I ask the Proposer to consider reducing it to 10 or even to a maximum of 5 points. One more thing I would refer to in this conversation, or at this presentation, is the assessment of the conduct of duty. Therefore, according to the proposed chief state attorney, it provides a general evaluation instruction. I think it might be better and more appropriate for the minister to actually edit this matter through the rules, because yet the regulation is a sublegal act that is now passing a certain procedure of public consultation. So the minister can send it to the government. He doesn't owe, but he can. So that rule is subject to then and the constitutionality assessment. So it can also go to the Constitutional Court because the fact is that it regulates the working status of judicial officials. So, it's an important act that would be good if the more transparent it is, in the absence of doubt, that the chief public attorney would be an arbitration attorney, or that he would abuse his authority, but that in some way we would solve that burden, too, so that he might not be in some court official's proceedings that is not satisfied with his assessment that a provision or instructions has been made for him, perhaps that the regulation would be better to bring a minister. At the end of the debate, I would point out something else that is related to these laws, and it's not really arranged now for these changes. These are data on the number of employed members of national minorities in judicial bodies or state attorneys. Therefore, we would only warn of the data or sub-representation of members of the national minorities if we look at the judicial officials in the state's attorneys according to the latest report adopted by the government, members of all national minorities of judicial officials in the state's attorneys is 4.5%, which is unfortunately much better than, for example, representation in the national administration, which is 3.4%. But this much better representation, unfortunately, is unsatisfactory and that representation has actually improved compared to previous years only because the total number of government officials has therefore decreased, and the number of members of national minorities remains the same. Here I think and therefore appeal when there is a new choice of judicial officials to take care of the appeal to law, to the advantages of representatives of national minorities, or to respect the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74768	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Secretary of State Christian Turkalj, on behalf of the promoter, will rely for five minutes on what the clubs have said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74769	Honorable MPs, let me take a brief look around and maybe explain some things a little bit. So, first of all, why are we and how we chose 1. 9th as the day of entry into force of this legislative package? So the basic thing is that this assembly of the State's Attorney's Council expires next year as long as I remember the 3rd month, so we've calculated that we have the 6 months we need then to choose a new composition. So that's one element that I think is important, and that applies to the choice of the attorney general. As far as the attorney general is concerned, all of these variants are well discussed. What's the problem, the Constitution is very clear, the attorney general is elected for four years. Not for three months, not for six months, not for nine, no extended time. So we have a restriction. We've been watching, we've been thinking, we've been turning around, but the Constitution is very clear here. So any real solution in the transitional and final provisions by us would be contrary to the Constitution and would not be acceptable. The same part of the story refers to the role of the State Attorney's Council on the appointment of the Attorney General. If constitutional provisions are carefully read, the role of the State's Attorney's Council is clear. It's clear what he's proposing, it's clear that whoever decides about the attorney general. So we had at one point but the assessment was the Office of Law that we were going against the provisions of the Constitution. So at this point until we change the constitutional framework, we can't do more than we've proposed. As for the property cards, so I don't know, we just said a complete analogy with everything that's on the Committee for Conflict of Interest or in the Law on Conflict of Interest in the way it was implemented on the web. The Committee's pages, we think it's great, and I don't think there's anything new to be invented. Yes, we think that our legislative solution is completely rewritten from the Law of Conflict of Interest. So I don't know what the difference is. As for security checks, we'll consider and see until the next reading. And when we started to change this law, and today it was a few times a word, the public defender's question we remembered that time, we again came to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly determines jurisdiction. So until the Constitution changes, we can only work to strengthen in this existing framework and we have heard some suggestions to think about how we can ensure that this is equal treatment for both departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74770	Thank you, too. There were no replicas. Let's move on. No, I don't. Now we move on to individual debates. Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74771	Thank you very much. Here, since we haven't had a state lawyer's report in front of parliament for years, in these amendments to the laws of these three amendments regarding the area and headquarters, I've said everything and said. So a simple continuation of injustice to certain areas whether it's targeted or not, whether it's analytical or not, I don't know. But I know we won't agree to that. We who come from certain parts and who are visible that certain areas such as the Cetina region are, the Dalmatian Zagora in this case and this law are talking about seats, that they are being cut off. And we will continue to fight until the second reading. So I would ask you both on behalf of here and colleagues of Šipić and all those who were together at the mayors' meeting, the mayor and the mayor's office to think twice about it. Because simple people are aware and these are also incentives to move out of these areas. We need to think that institutions that are in these areas and which have been for the security of citizens and state's attorneys and courts mean a lot in these areas. However, as far as the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, the role of the State's Attorney's Office is very important for the safety of Croatian citizens and as far as... Corruption and crime in the field of war crimes. [[You don't understand.]] And it's certainly amazing to know that there are a number of those who took part in the aggressor side that are now in the structures of the State's Attorney's Office. And we know here by reading a few days ago following that he was even transferred to the police by a man who, Niko Klajic of Police Vukovar-Srijemska, otherwise... The defender who began to work on the issues of the Shepherd quite actively that he had been removed. [[You don't understand.]] That's enough to say that crime doesn't get old because in this case every crime should be prosecuted because the fact that it turns out to be a Croatian soldier we've been attacking another state which is false. That's the first one. Second, corruption, crime, war profit. Here's an example in Sinj today we've got a trade deal, I've raised a criminal report four times. It's your problem that money was meant for the weapons of the Cetina province in 91 which was meant for purpose, but it happened... These funds were re-scheduled to defend the Cetino region at the height of a million 400 marks of that time. [[You don't understand.]] They ended up as a loan at the Meteor Company... The Tedeschi family. [[You don't understand.]] That money, of course, has never been returned. Then we defended the naked area of the Cetina region as well as the entire Republic of Croatia. Then I was with many of my peers when I was 19, 18, 19 in rebatins without weapons. That's when the Peruca area of Vrlika fell. If that money was aimed at weapons, they'd probably defend it. But today these people have empires. I've filed charges four times. They say it's obsolete, no matter what the law. That's what I personally told the predecessor to Mr. Bajic, today's Cwitan. They said the 2010 law would be amended. The law has been changed. Now they say it's out of date with Sanader's judgment, so many empires were created on the blood of young people who left their lives in this country. Therefore, the State's Attorney's Office should resolve these cases. Do they have the strength or don't they? For now the people have no confidence in that part and it is very important that the State's Attorney's Council either the level of county or municipal, or the state's attorney's offices should be people who are willing to fight what is... in society. [[You don't understand.]] And it really saddens me that here a little while ago it was mentioned that war criminals of people who were on the side of the aggressor today are in the state's attorney's offices, and that's why it really takes this security check. Because the one who did not love the Croatian state did not want an independent Republic of Croatia, with the fact that we have to give pain to many people of Serbian nationality so that it does not turn out now that we are talking about which, 9,000 Croatian defenders have given great pain and indeed these people should always be mentioned. But the grief of those who have committed aggression to one state is that they are now within the State's attorney's system. It's a precedent I mean unremembered. Is it possible in America that someone who commits some kind of aggression on America to be in the structures of the state's attorney's office? Of course, there should be as much work as possible and that these injustices are obvious and that, obviously, people in the field, Croatian defenders notice it. You've been reported by people who were aggressors. This isn't the way. Simply security checks they have to pass. As for the fight against corruption, we expect that. This law is a cosmetic law. He doesn't contribute except this I told the first law where he increased by 3 municipal state attorneys. I think you said Metkovic. So in Metkovic, Vinkovci and third place irrelevant. However, I believe that the foundations of the municipal state's attorneys should have been based, the courts should have been the state's attorney's office. Surely there are people in the state's attorney's offices who are doing their job, who are trying, but the issue is further these findings, political influences on the state's attorney's office, and that's the key problem. But simply in Croatia, those who didn't have five kunas, so here and in my neighborhood, Loto didn't get the grandfather's inheritance are now the richest people, and I don't believe they've gotten it by digging up their salaries. So a number of economic operators were destroyed in privatisation, conversion, war profiting, and I believe that the State's attorneyship that the law on non-depreciation is based on INA and MOL Prime Minister Sanader's White Night, which Slavko Linic, after telecommunic began to mean the HDZ government, could end the SDPs more because he is an expert on Mr. Mudrinic as Telecommunications, as they are privatised. But the fact is that what was social was what the people created that unfortunately was alienated from the stocks. Telecommunications is an example. And indeed, the State's Attorney's Office should take measures and that this law that was voted here on the non-depreciation of wartime 2010 war profit and in the privatisation that simple, privatization, crime... that you should simply respect that. [[You don't understand.]] As a result, the Constitutional Court dismissed Mr Sanader and now the State Attorney's Office is calling for that part of the law on non-depreciation to be invalid. I don't know why. I think you should think and all the profession to bend that, I was headed in that direction, only it's a busy job where you should include... If the Law on the Origin of Assets would have defined a lot and it would have been easy to compare what a colleague of Bunjac was saying about how someone can now have 80 million kunas, 37 million kunas in an account if his salary was 10, 15, 20 families. [[You don't understand.]] You should be 80 if you don't pay for anything, or electricity, or... So I simply think that there are huge injustices, and that instruments to our parliamentary representatives... [[You don't understand.]] There are laws, and the State's Attorney's Office should be people who are the most qualified, loyal, first... [[You don't understand.]] patriotically moody, committed to fighting corruption and crime, and of course all kinds of crimes, and mostly war crimes. [[You don't understand.]] I repeat once again that the aggressors who attacked the Republic of Croatia if they are in the State's Attorney's Office, then we no longer have anything to say. It's a state we can call it "Apsordistan". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74772	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74773	Comrade Bull, you've reached out to what I just said. For the public and for the work of colleagues and colleagues from the SDSS here should be said precisely and accurately. So it's a deputy county state attorney's attorney who took part in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia directly from the ranks of Croatian nationality. So the Croat who attacked the Republic of Croatia from Vojvodina in order to act as a refugee from Vojvodina in 93 years, came to Croatia and joined the state's legal structures. And how rooted this tells you and the fact that recently a few months ago even a daughter managed to hire a State Attorney in the capacity of advisors in Vukovar. So it's not a harmless thing at all. And I fully agree with you that he who attacked, who destroyed the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, was a Croat or some other nationality he cannot be in the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and therefore need security checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74774	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74775	Well, I'm a colleague of Glavas at the beginning and said that I respect people of Serbian nationality for giving a great deal of pain in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in my field. In my village, people were in a place where they live, meaning in the Croatian Army, and that should be emphasized all the time. That's why I stressed and of course it doesn't matter if he was a Croat or he was a Serbian nationality, if he attacked Croatia and if he was on the side of the aggressor with his soul, soul and body, then everything is clear. And being in the State's Attorney's Office is impossible to happen in the West that someone who will attack America will be in any sense tomorrow who will be on the side of ISIL or I don't know on whose side they will attack directly America and be in the U.S. Attorney's Office tomorrow. So this is an absolute state and that these things require security checks, because without it, of course, property cards because they can't be protected as the Supreme Judge was here, so we asked Mr. Sess if he was for the property card, why he didn't show the property card. But they're acting protected... In this case, I don't want to insult anyone but protected as a face bear. [[You don't understand.]] So I think it's time for these people who work in the state's attorney's office to have certain quality people who can do the job, and it's the State's Attorney's Council's job and the job not to be to please politically and not to appoint political ones, but to appoint professionals, and there are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74776	Thank you. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Nikola Grmoy. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Bozo Petrov. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr Tomislav Panenić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Marko Sladolev. He's here, but he quit. Mrs. Strenja Linic. She's gone. Mr. Pranic gives up. Mrs Ivana Ninčević-Lessandic. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Miroslav Simic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Branimir, you're in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74777	Okay. I won't be long either. I'm just going to do a quick summary and repeat what I did in the replicas. First of all, I would agree with a colleague from the SDSS that the Civil Law Department should be strengthened in the State's Attorney's Office. It's an absolute heart of the State's Attorney's office, but away from the public, it is of interest to the media. And in fact, all the problems of robbery, corruption, abductions lie right in that department. So, this department absolutely needs to be strengthened because the source of all problems and evil in the last 30 years is starting with privatisation and other forms of crime and corruption, which are being conducted through papers where that department only strikes stamps and legalizes a form of robbery heavy hundreds, hundreds of millions of kunas and go far, far below the public's interest. The public is interesting when one of the USKOK's arrests is especially if it's a big political beast, then the public is having fun. However, these are small things in relation to what the State's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney General must do and clear up, and that is exactly what is done in this Civil Law Department or the former Public Attorney's Office. I think Mr. Secretary of State has to work on that. That department needs to be maximum strength, completely singled out. At this point, it is not realistic that we are going back to the old age to form now a new-old public defendership, but that this department must be much, much more strengthened than is now positioned under the General State Attorney's Office. This is a prerequisite for solving all criminal problems, which burdens Croatian society, and which the State's Attorney's Office does not solve. So I ask you for another reading to propose one more quality solution and strengthen practically to the independence of this particular Civil Law Department. The right hand of the attorney general should be the deputy attorney general in charge of these matters run by the Civil Law Department within the State's Attorney's Office. It's the core of the problem, not the spectacular action in front of the cameras, the media of arrests that are suspected of some kind of embezzlement. It is a public entertainment compared to what is happening "under the grain", which is happening far away from the public, which is because some people at the top of the State's attorney's office are dying on one occasion and very often on both eyes, and under the grains are being stolen and robbed hundreds of millions of kunas. This is the core of the problem, and it is precisely the main state attorney's office that needs to show its effectiveness, so problems will be solved. And I'm gonna end up with this part that I touched a little while ago. You said, as far as security checks are concerned, we'll consider it. Not only consider, but find a formulation and enter into laws and other laws where all those state lawyers from the lowest levels of municipal, county to the very main state attorney and his associates will be exposed to a thorough, thorough security check. I'll fill in what my colleague Grbin was saying. Not only corruption, not just other types of crime, but also in this part that I mentioned earlier, which is that security checks must be carried out by people who work in the State's Attorney's Office and they must have a clean past behind them. It cannot act as deputy state attorney either at the municipal, county or state level of persons or persons involved in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia. In a specific case, we spoke, and I was thinking of a person of Croatian nationality who left Vojvodina in 1993, came to Croatia and presented myself to the victim of the persecution he had experienced as a Croat in Vojvodina, so that the Croatian authorities would accept it and without any verification include it in the repressive apparatus of the Republic of Croatia in the State's Attorney's Office. This person is currently in charge of solving the Ovčara problem. The person went to Belgrade and, in the company of a fellow State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, visited detainees who were tried and convicted of a crime in Ovcara and one of them tried to inform the deputy of the County State Attorney's Office in Osijek about other persons involved and responsible for the crime in Ovcara. And you know what the answer was to this deputy county attorney of the Croats by nationality in the company of a fellow Serbian state attorney? We don't care about that. He's silenced not to say what he doesn't care about. Therefore, I insist that security checks on those people acting as municipal, county and chief state attorneys together with all the deputies of all levels must pass. Because those who once lived in Serbia, who served JNA as Croats, I dare say that there is no exception that there is a very high degree of likelihood that they are tied to the neighbouring state's counterintelligence service today and that they work simultaneously in the Croatian State's Attorney's office and at the same time send this information to the Serbian State's Attorney's office but not authorized. I do not mean the part where there is an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia on co-operation, but according to intelligence channels, reports the neighbouring country's security authorities so that a concrete crime in Ovcara would not be resolved, or at least to create an impression that it would be resolved and in a way that investigations and verdicts would involve 5, 6 or 10 marginal people and persons, and not involve and involve the direct state summit of the Republic of Serbia, military structures and political structures of that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74778	One replica. Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74779	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Glavas, listening to you simply so you can't believe that in this country after 25 years we haven't checked anything, we haven't seen anything, we haven't actually processed anything. What you're saying, I have that knowledge as much as you do. So simply as a man who has no crime behind me, nothing, and I know what's going on, how many people, how much crime has been missed in this Croatian state. I wonder, and now, always the public, is it possible that in our state's attorneys only papers are in agreement, and we all know about crime and no one is processing it? And possibly. Possibly. That's not what we're talking about. And this and you talking now isn't talking in your head. That's true. That's true. We ask, gentlemen, are we going to follow that truth sometime? Are we going to go after justice sometime? Are we going to make this state a legal state? Am I an entrepreneur crazy for paying everything or am I normal? Are they capable and similar, which I don't think they're capable of? But they are similar, and they haven't paid the state taxes, they're not obliged, they're opening up a hundred companies and they're working today as respected citizens. What kind of country do we live in? In what state do we want? How do we represent this people to our people and to the public that we have, what will these people tell you that I have entered this House just to sit down, not to say anything, and to say that people are good to me and to you how they are? Of course I'm not feeling well. I don't feel good looking at this poor girl who's leaving Croatia who, we have an empty Slavonia, which certainly what you've been saying is one part because people don't have. We're being processed by people who were supposed to process others, and they didn't. You were in jail, I don't know why. Thousands of ours died, and no one in prison. This same Belgrade citizen who's in jail who told the public that I did kill, now I'm in jail, I have a court, but there are other people who want to say and our people don't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74780	Time. Thank you. Let's go, but in two minutes. [[/Intruder Mišic:...where we're going. God grant us justice to finish this story. Thank you.]] Anywhere but in two minutes we go Mr. Glava, I give you my word. [[Intruder Head: Just a short time to confirm what this is...]] Not yet. [[/Intruder Head: Did you give me your word?]] I'm giving it to you now. No, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74781	Okay. I'll just confirm briefly what Mr. Misic said. So I'm not talking about it. I wasn't talking about it. I didn't take the say-say tactics. I personally spoke to a man who was sentenced to 20 years for a crime in Ovcara and who told me in a telephone conversation, who also gave me information about the deputy county attorney, I stress the Croatian who participated in the aggression in the Republic of Croatia from 15 December to 9 January and on the second occasion in February or March 92. So these data are accurate, checked. That's not by chance spoken of, and a man like that can't get a job from a top state attorney to investigate the crime of the Sheepchare. This State's Attorney's Office needs to find a better quality person, a verifiable person. So a person who must be certain that he is not working in the interest of foreign intelligence services or specifically Serbian intelligence services, and who will end the case in order for all those responsible for the crime to be held accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74782	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74783	Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, First Reading, P.Z. No. 299, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1, Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 28 abstentions and 15 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74884	We are now moving to the final point of today's debate - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 208 which is like I said as final in the second reading. That's Bill 208. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 concerning 190 Rules of Procedure of the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197 of the current Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the proposing representative Mr. Christian Turkal want to give an additional explanation? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74885	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear MPs, here are four sentences. So we have before us a draft of the final bill on amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations. The proposed amendments concern the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union. They refer to the part relating to banks related to the removal of the press and refer to the Advocate General's proposal for persons with disabilities. Therefore, there are provisions in the Law on Mandatory Relations concerning the regulation of issues which have been regulated by the Package Travel Directive. Meanwhile, a new directive has been adopted, which has been transposed into the Tourism Service Act. This issue is therefore regulated in this law, and it is therefore proposed to delete those provisions. The draft also proposes to amend Article 999. The Act on Mandatory Relations in order to free banks or savings banks from the use of seals in the introduction of payments and payment of money in savings books in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reform measure to abolish the use of the stamp from 4 May 2016. Finally, on the proposal of the Advocate General for persons with disabilities, the termology of the law is aligned with the termology of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the expression "spiritual disease and lagging mental development are replaced by the expressions "mental or intellectual damage". Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74886	Thank you, too. Anybody want one? There's a replica before the board. Yeah. Here you go, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since this is a technical change, allow me to point out that between the two readings one of the smaller nomotechnical changes that are absolutely acceptable and necessary are made. In the other part, it is in compliance with European Union law. It is an act that better at the nominal level, or more correctly and correctly defines how to treat a particular population. Of course, the technical measure relating to the removal of the seal, with regard to the Club of Representatives of the SDP, supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74888	Thank you, too. Let's move on. Would the committee's reporters like to take their words? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr Branimir Bunjac. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Ante Bacic. Here you are on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the secretary of state, so I'll do it. So, before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations. So a few amendments were introduced to comply with EU directives. We know that the Law on Mandatory Relations has transposed the Directive since 1990 regarding travel, holidays and circular travel in package arrangements. Meanwhile, the 90th Directive was put out of effect by the Council Directive on the European Parliament of 2015, which has been further updated and these package arrangements introduce new terms and new moments on the market such as Internet distribution and Internet sales of the tourism package itself, so that traditional distribution chains and channels now cover the Internet as an increasingly important medium when selling the package of arrangements. So Articles 998 to 101 have arranged a savings contract that the Secretary of State has reported to us means a purely technical change related to the disposal of the use of the seal itself. So this law frees banks and savings from the use of seals. And perhaps the most important change which also went to the Advocate General's Initiative for Persons with Disabilities, which suggested that the term "spiritual disease and lagging mental development" in articles 1050 to 1055 that had simply become obsolete, stimulating replacements of a new term which was prescribed by the Conventions on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, so that this Convention against the Republic of Croatia still took effect in 2008, defining persons with disabilities as persons with long-term physical, mental and intellectual or sensory damages which, in interaction with different obstacles, can prevent their full participation in society on an equal basis. Therefore, in this law too, it is proposed to make easy adjustments to this Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So purely one technical change, but again on the Attorney General's initiative, so it definitely needs to be adopted. Here's to short. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74890	Thank you. Thank you. And Mr. Ivan Lovrinović. He's gone. He's losing his right. There are no individual discussions. Something final? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote like we always do whatever it means when we get the conditions. And tomorrow, Friday 9 March 2018 at 9:30 I'll read it all to you so you know what the agenda points are. 1. Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2015 and 16 years with financial indicators 1. Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2015 and 1. Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2016. It's likely to unite those two last points. Goodbye. Get some rest. SESSION Interrupted at 17.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-08-0.u74891	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, second reading, P.Z. Number 208, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 94 are for, 19 abstentions and 1 vote against the Law on Amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations.
