ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77689	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, I can see you're in a very good mood, but I'd still like you to listen to me. I particularly welcome Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, I welcome the vice-presidents, vice-presidents and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a respected colleague and colleagues. You received the minutes of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I note that we adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With the call for a session, you also received a draft agenda and the final draft agenda was submitted by electronic means. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included 12 new points under regular numbers 5, 20, 21, 22, 45, 46, 48, 59, 51, 66, 97 and 98. These are: Report on meetings of the European Council and of the European Council held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March 2018, Proposal for a Law on Transport in Road Transport, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners, Interpelling on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and control of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, Report on the work of the Advocates for Persons with Disabilities for 2017, Report on the Work of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality for 2017, Report on the Work of the Ombudsman for Children for 2017, Report on the Work of Official Pension Funds managed by the PBZ Croatia Security d.d. for the management of mandatory pension funds for 2017, Report on the work of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education for 2017, Amendments and additions to the Statutes of the Competition Protection Agency. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a sufficient number of MPs and we can make a right decision. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. These are points 20 and 21 of the proposed additions, the Proposal for a Law on Transport in Road Transport and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Foreigners. In accordance with Article 206(1), I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the context of the adoption of the law under points 1 of the final draft agenda, i.e. the Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence with a final draft of the law? Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77690	I believe that this law cannot be passed by emergency procedure for the reason that it has caused a very big dispute, I will say the unremembered opposition in Croatia, on the Croatian political scene, in the Croatian people so that it is mandatory and necessary for this law to be discussed by regular procedure through two readings. I therefore ask, I demand that the law go by regular procedure and not by emergency procedure for these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77691	My colleague Bauk asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77692	Mr. President, given that the new Rules of Procedure have come into force and that international contracts are generally confirmed in one reading, I believe there is no longer a business opportunity for this law not to be placed under emergency procedure and I ask you to explain this to the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77693	Yes, a new Rules of Procedure has entered into force. That is where we decided that international contracts, so this international agreement goes in one reading so that the remarks of counterpart Zekanovic are not justified and that law will also be discussed in this procedure. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77694	Your Honor, didn't you ask yourself if anyone had anything to do with the emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77695	Here's my buddy. Yeah, yeah, there's something [[/Intruder Zekanovic: That's all I heard wrong or did you...?]] No, no, that's right, counterpart Bukarica has normally put the issue aside, but the fact is what counterpart Bauk said is that according to the new Rules of Procedure, international contracts work in a single reading. [[So it wasn't me who was wrong, it was you.]] So I apologize and we'll do this then, given the new Rules of Procedure through one reading. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. 225, p. 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 225th, No. 4. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Points 20 and 21 have been declared when deciding on urgency. There were also representatives and advocates who objected to the inclusion of points 5, 22, 45, 46, 48, 49, 51, 66, 97 and 98. The final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda you received with the call for the 8th session? If there are no objections, I would like to determine that these points are also included in the 8th session agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this agenda has been established in accordance with Article. 228th century, p. 1. The Rules of Procedure should now publish it by reading it, however, I suggest that if you agree that I do not fully read it, but rather allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77696	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, I listened, so, all this stuff you suggested. I sent you a letter just before Easter asking you to organise a plenary session, a thematic session on the occasion of the European Commission's report on the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. The account contains 73 pages, no one was thoroughly manifested, no government, no one else, nor the Parliament. I do not know why such important issues are being bypassed, so I ask you if you can tell me if you will include this proposal which I have said discusses the European Commission's report on the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and when it will be around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77697	I signed yesterday, they gave me associates, so you'll have a written answer to what you asked me. You have a written answer. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77698	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I have one question concerning the agenda. So we have one illogicality that's huge. Between 103 points, only 56th and 57th is the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for 2015 and 2016. I believe that this is totally inadmissible, with the end of the term of office of a state attorney within a few weeks, and I believe that these points need to be discussed before the state's attorney's mandate is fully completed, and also, in 96 and 97, there is a report by the Parliamentary Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, again for 2016 and 2017, so I think that this should be discussed a little sooner than is planned, so I ask you to respect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77699	Thank you, but you have the possibility of a written complaint on the agenda. You didn't use it, so what you're doing now, you can do it, but it doesn't have any objective weight. Before we begin to ask the Government questions, I remind you of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and Art. 249a, according to which representatives of the clubs of the representatives who request it, can be represented by their club's views in 5-minute exhibitions, following the maintenance of the current morning. So please take care of it. Secondly, I would like to inform you that the “Ivan Kukuljevic” hall is now fully adapted and ready to hold press conferences of representatives and club representatives. You've also received written notice. And another piece of information. At the request of the MOST Club, immediately after the current morning, and before that free discussion that I have just mentioned, we would discuss and vote on the report of the Mandanto-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Miroslav Simic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative Sonja Cikotic, so I would ask that we have a quorum at the moment when we will end the current morning so that we can do so. In accordance with Article 226, paragraph 2. I will first propose to supplement the 8th session agenda with 12 new points. Proposal for a Law implementing the General Data Protection Regulation. Final draft law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing the detection, investigation and conduct of criminal proceedings for acts of terrorism and other serious criminal offences, Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Patents, Final proposal of the Law on the Amendments of the Law on trade marks of geographical origin and the designation of origin of products and services, Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, Proposal for the Allocation of the Charter of the Croatian Red Cross, Annual Report on Defence for 2017, Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data Protection, the Interpellation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the failure of the Government of the implementation of the financial year 2017 in the Republic of Croatia and the Financial Reformation of Croatia. The proposal for supplementing the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Article 227 The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt an individual law is subject to an emergency procedure, please include yourself to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure lay down that an urgent procedure is to adopt a law which is harmonised with EU documents if the applicant so requests and does not vote on such a law, that is, point 1 of the proposed amendment, the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation with the final proposal for a law. In accordance with Article 206(1), I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Are there any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 8th session, points 2 to 12 of the proposed additions? If there are no objections, these items shall be included in the agenda of the session and the team shall be set up to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77701	The defense board members have a session now in room 202 so I invite them to join the session, that's one thing. And my colleague Lovrinovic would like to say something, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just a quick question. Why are you just putting on the 2015 State's Attorney General's report today, why, please, why has it been so long?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77703	I agree that all reports should come without delay as they come to the Parliament in the parliamentary procedure and I hope that by the end of this session we will catch a pace so that we do not have to discuss the reports from 2014, 2015, 2016, unrelated to what reports. I really hope that's how we'll do it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77704	Mr. Vice President, can we do an update on the agenda to get on board?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77705	Take it easy. Unless we all agree, since people go to the board, do we agree to do an addition to the agenda first, we have one point? All right, then let's strictly hold the Rules of Procedure first because the shared opinions are going to be strictly held by the Rules of Procedure let's go first free speech. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.07 HOURS]] We shall, ladies and gentlemen, be represented in accordance with Article 226(2). I would like to propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this 8th session, as I have announced with one new point, and that is point: 1. The proposal for a decision to appoint the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for supplementing the agenda was submitted by electronic means. I hope you all got it. It seems to me that it was because I had some kind of information that someone didn't receive by electronic means a proposal to supplement the agenda, so I'm just checking to see if it's true that we wouldn't have any leaks, but it seems like they've all got it, so I'm asking you to get involved to check the quorum. We have 79 of us present, therefore the quorum is established and that we can rightly decide. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of this item on the agenda of this session? There isn't. If there are no objections, this item shall be included in the agenda of the 8th session. That's what the ladies and gentlemen of the agenda supplementers have been set up to do, and let me just remind you that you'd all be informed, we'd like to discuss five points today. Today we would have discussed five points. 1st item is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 170. Point 2 is the Final Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the Central Insurance Register, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 263, 3rd point (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, (b) Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, 4. Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2015, applicant of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and 5. Annual report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for 2016, applicant for the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest that if there are no objections that we bring together the debate on the Annual Reports on the work of the DORH for 2015 and 2016 because it seems logical to me. Does anyone have any objections to that? No one has any objections to that, I think we've agreed to unite those two points.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77707	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and These are: Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Emigrants and the Second Annual Report on the Implementation of the Strategy of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2017. A proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the 8th session agenda? If there are no objections, these items shall be included in the agenda of the 8th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the addition of the agenda has been established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 226(2), I will now propose a supplement to the agenda of the 8th session with 4 new points. These are the Final Proposal of the Law on the Management of State Property, Amendments and Supplements of the Statutes of the Competition Protection Agency, Proposal for a conclusion on the opening of the procedure for negotiations on changes to the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia and the report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. The proposal for supplementing the agenda was submitted by electronic means, please enable yourself to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. Do any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the 8th session agenda? In the absence of any comments, these items are in the agenda of the 8th session and the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77711	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am asking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to agree on this and here I immediately appeal to you to change the order of debate today as regards these points because it is an apparent intention of the HDZ to remove Agrokor from the agenda and to discuss this when our citizens will no longer be able to follow it in direct transmission. And I invite you to put that right now on the first point, you can do it by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, to discuss that point, to let people hear, the public interest is enormous, we saw the breaks today morning. All the breaks talked about this topic, don't run away from Croatian citizens because it is evident what happened in the Republic of Croatia, it is evident that there have been a lot of things under the auspices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the end Minister Dalic resigned, and thus you admitted that the opposition was right all along, and it is evident why the investigative commission on Agrokor that HDZ stopped and made it impossible for him to work. The MOST colleagues have referred this to the legal procedure so that the Commission can go on Friday when we declare it, continue and do not work and give all the answers to Croatian citizens. We see this happening in the world, we see some of the debates in the world run by all the parliaments, don't you prevent it. If Prime Minister Plenkovic has already hidden the BORGs, here's almost a year and a few days since he knew they were involved, don't cover any of the dishonest actions that happened around Agrokor, don't stop the Investigation Commission, Mr. President, don't stop the debate in the Croatian Parliament. We ask that this be discussed and that this be set in motion as the first item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77712	Here you go, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77713	Dear President, here I join this request by my colleagues from the SDP and ask for a break so our club can discuss it. I think that, of course, and this point that you put on the agenda, but it's reports for 2016 and 2017, we know that the whole public and media and what is interested in our citizens is this very affair in Agrokor and there is time to discuss this point and there is no reason that these two points that we asked for as an opposition, both of which we put in the same day and in these late hours. So, the public's interest is to discuss what happened in Agrokor, what my colleague Bacic is trying to do for Macan and the rest of the HDZ to impute MOST. We're clean, we're not afraid of anything, we're not afraid of the Investigative Commission, and when it was, we're demanding it. So we're looking for Mr. Boric, to investigate everything, to get everything out, we're not afraid of emails or texting or anything else. Let each one answer for his actions, this is one opportunity for catharsis, for a new start of the Croatian economy. All those responsible respond, we have no problem with that, so we have opened this topic of Agrokor. We also questioned the criminal responsibility of Ivica Todorovic, and then Prime Minister Plenkovic, I was at a meeting in the government, hunting for the head when Bozo Petrov filed a criminal charges against Ivica Todorovic. I was at that meeting. We have nothing to fear. We asked for three commissioners, why didn't you agree to this, it would be an anti-corruption mechanism if these consultants didn't engage, or those people who worked to hire as consultants, and imagine that when they engage? The HDZ-MoST conflict over Zdravko Maric began, I announced to Bozinovic Intruder president: Thank you, thank you, fellow Grumoja. [[Intruder President: Thank you. ... on Friday that we will vote against Maric,...]] On the 26th, they hire advisors, on the 27th... /The incursion of President: Mr. Grmo./ [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77714	Comrade Grmoi, please, colleague of the Grmoi. Wait a minute, Mr. Grmoya, I'll give you a heads-up if you keep this up. ... No, you didn't ignore it when I warned you that time was up, that's the first thing. [[Grmoy attack, not turned on.]] Now we're going to define another thing, just a little bit. So, according to the new Rules of Procedure for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, the opposition can put points on the agenda by deciding the majority in this Croatian Parliament. First time in history. And you filed a request, both SDP and MOST on Friday to get those points on the agenda and the president of the Croatian Parliament puts them on the first working day after your request. And instead of showing at least one correctness and saying all the honors, you put on your first day, you're still attacking me that the dots are coming late. So we have a debate about a child's attorney who's not going to last too long, and it's likely that the first debate will come in line according to the number of those who applied and already around noon or about an hour. So, there's no debate late at night, but we've already spent 45 minutes plus another 10 minutes that we're going to spend on break, almost an hour going to this first debate. So you've lost that hour. I won't change the agenda, you got according to the Rules of Procedure immediately after you asked, so now I'm giving a break of 10 minutes, before that only colleague Beljak has something to say, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77715	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the same subject. I'd like to appeal to you. You have shown yourself over the past period, so you personally and as Gordan Jandrokovic and as president of the Croatian Parliament as a brave man. He's gone the other day. Let you also understand that this is indeed a crucial topic that interests the Croatian public and becomes you as the President of the Parliament, as a man first of all. I thank you and indeed you have done a great thing, a great democratic step forward that the opposition's proposal has already been put on the agenda the next working day. I really thank you as a man and as a parliamentary representative for that. Give me another step, and you can certainly put it as the first item of the agenda. All of this is of interest to us in the Parliament, it is also interested in the Croatian public, it is also interested in the state secretaries, the ladies who are here. I'm sure they've been talking about it for coffee this morning, like one big affair. Interestingly, I am sure you as a man of clean hands, as a man who is president of the Croatian Parliament, I am convinced, if everyone else participated in this affair that you are not and I repeat, once again I appeal to you as a man who can judge, who knows how to choose the moment to choose this moment now and put this point first on the agenda today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77716	Thank you, fellow Whitey. You almost talked me into it, but you didn't. Ten minutes break. It's 10:00. 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12, 25 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition of the agenda, 8 sessions with 15 new points, these are: Proposal for a Law on Terminals for Intended Natural Gas with the Final Proposal of the Law. Final proposals of the Law on the Research of Carbon Plantation. Final proposals of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools. Proposal for a Law on the Foundation of War Solidarity. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children. Proposal of the Hunting Act. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act. Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation on criminal matters with EU Member States. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on improved entrepreneurship infrastructure. Report on the pooled lists of archives referred to in Article 21a(1) of the Law on Archive materials and archives. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts in 2017 Proposed decision on the declaration of 2018 Jurj Križanić. 14 A proposal for a decision on the discharge of part of the members of the electronic media council and a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the electronic media council. 15 proposals for a decision to dissolve the Croatian Assembly. Proposal to supplement the agenda, submitted by electronic means, Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal should be decided, that an individual law should be adopted in an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum, and we can rightly decide. If any of the representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed amendment. This is the proposal of the Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas with the final proposal of the Law. My colleague Pernar, my colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77718	The Honorable Chairman, we of the Living Wall, believe that lex LNG is about one serious law and that it should be studied in 2 readings. Why? Because we've already had a situation that when it's done so-called. Lex specialists, i.e. special laws for one thing, such as was lex Agrocor or now lex LNG, simply when it's going to be done in a hurry, it's done in a creamy way, then you see mistakes, and then those mistakes are difficult to correct. Political responsibility is put in place, etc. etc. So I'd be begging to go into regular procedure, not the ER, thank you. On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77719	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77720	The SDP advocates' club also opposes the adoption of the Law on the Terminal of Intended Natural Gas by an urgent procedure. The local community's position is well known, and we're very skeptical about the LNG intention, so we're asking that the law go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77721	I thank you, so we'll have to vote. Who is to include the proposal of the Terminal Act the occupied natural gas with the final bill of law in the emergency procedure? Let's vote. I find that most votes are 77 for and 41 against found that this law goes into emergency procedure, in accordance with Article. 205 Rules of Procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 8th session agenda? If there are no objections, these items shall be included in the agenda of the 8th session and the addition of the agenda shall be established. In accordance with Article 226(2), ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Council Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the 8-session agenda with 13 new points. These are: 1. Proposal to show confidence to Tomislav Tolusic, Minister of Agriculture and to serve as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. 1. Proposal for a trust to Darko Horvato to carry out his duties as Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Regulation Act. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act. 1. Proposal for a Foundation Act. 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. 1. Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation No 1286/2014 on key information documents for packaged investment products. 1. Final proposal of the Law implementing EU Regulation 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks, second reading, P.Z. number 287. 1. Final proposal of the Law on conditions for the provision of customs representation services. 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Encouragement. 1. Proposal for a Family Law Supplement Act. 1. Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and a proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2017. 1. Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2017. The proposal for supplementing the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can make a valid decision. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the proposed points in the 8th session agenda? If there are no objections, all points shall be included in the agenda of the 8th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the addition of the agenda has been determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77729	I'm looking for a break on the current situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77730	No, I don't care, go ahead and come here and talk for five minutes. So we'll continue at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77731	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here are the historic events now under way, the question in Syria of what is happening. We are on the verge of a major conflict, a global conflict perhaps that God does not give, where the Croatian media are on that hotspot, what do we know what is happening, what is the position of the Croatian government towards the situation? On the one hand, we have Russia, Iran, and now the regime from other Israel, America, and in that pot we put ISIS, Hezbollah, the Islamic state. Again, I ask the Croatian Government's position towards the conflict. The Russian North Fleet is on alert, Israel has raised a missile shield and some don't care about it here, they're discussing bookies and other things here, and an American response is expected in 48 hours, the situation is changing. We don't know anything about it, nor do we care about the government, it seems to me, we've entered NATO and here we are, recently the Air Force... They hit the Syrian Air Force Base and they were killed there by soldiers from Iran and we're certainly on the verge of something bigger, it's destabilising the entire region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77732	My colleagues and colleagues, please, a little bit, but let's be quiet that my colleague Glasnović can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77733	So, I would ask this, where are the great Democrats here, the lumen demos when it comes to events in Palestine di we have a minimum of 20, 30 Palestinians killed now and thousands wounded, where are they now? Where were they when it came to the Christian minority, Christians in the Middle East? Iraq is de facto divided, others speak only two enclaves of Christians in northern Iraq, a small enclave, half a million are gone, you have hundreds of thousands of refugees and tens of thousands of deaths. When did anyone in this Assembly speak of religious extremists in the Middle East? When they talked about the crimes they committed there against women, children, mass rapes, I don't hear anything about it, total autism. I would have ended it and concluded that we did not follow this situation enough and put in a complete information blockade here in Croatia. But at the end of today's main topic is the Istanbul Convention, I have some gifts for our coalition here,... Not here now Mr. Glavasevic, I have for him one slipper here if he's not sure about his sex, these slippers, these ballets here, from the ballerina, they're actually still good, I have for a coalition of things, HNS and HDZ, we have sexy heels, and you still have time to decide when to vote tomorrow, Friday, we have sexy tanga panties for people who are trapped, women in male bodies, and that's what the feminists of this B.A.B.E.E. Or someone else, the job fell on me and you can pick up these awards later after the vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77734	Thank you, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Maras, what article of the Rules of Procedure is injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77735	He was injured in 238, but a whole series of articles, I'm really surprised to you, Vice President, that you didn't react to these things that offend fellow MPs, colleague Glavasevic, not to say that Mr. Glasnović showed his hand to me and Mr. Matic who until '90. We weren't in any political organizations, I'm '97. I just got into politics. He was probably thinking about people in HDZ. where a lot of people from the party went by, so... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I'm asking you to respond. [[Thank you very much, thank you colleague, time is up.]] I haven't had a minute yet. Yeah, you cut it to 30 seconds. [[No, it's half a minute, study your little Rules of Procedure.]] Okay. But I beg you to respond to such things, so we don't have to listen to it every day. [[Intruder Reiner: consider Rules of Procedure.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77736	We'd have to react to a lot of things, but here's one thing that suits us with great liberalisation, one time it suits us a little more strictly. I estimate there hasn't been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next club of MPs is the independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Glasovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77738	Dear colleagues, you'd say something morning about public administration, we're spinning around in circles, so how long will it take us to create a functional system? How is it possible that for 30 years it takes us to establish a clear criteria for estimating personnel? We have more employees in the public administration than ancient China had in court there in the 15th century, no standard procedures, no... But the evaluations, people taking bribes not to do inspections, we have a dysfunctional system, we actually have a representative of the former state, here, where this command was, Comrade, get on with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How is that possible? When we understand without the trained people, without the moral principles of rule of law, we will not create a state. We're still going round and round, like this. Let's see, Hungarian, has anyone congratulated Orban on winning the election victory from our parties? Has anyone congratulated Orban? The response was outrageous, you don't have it in the most developed so-called. The democracy of how many people there went to the elections. The GDP of 2017 in Hungary was 4%. unemployment fell from 11.6% in 2010, and today is 3.8%. The salary has increased 13% in Hungary, about 1100 euros a month, and that's where we are. And why is that in Hungary? Because Hungary's waters... Communists and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Marxists than see a nation-aware party, FIDES, and what do we have here? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope this week the first state prosecutor who wasn't a member of the Communist Party will come, here's the thing. And what happens next? Someone mentioned Jasenovac, did anyone blow up in the protest that recently on the portal 24 hours of misery was a mass murderer from Bjelovar where in the forest Lug was found hundreds of corpses were found there excavated. Here's just some name, Andrija Conc killed, sang the claggers, no one knows who he is, walks into the Belarusian OZNA, he's gone, and there's some history professors sitting there laughing at thousands and thousands of Croatian victims, we're trampling on Croatian costumes, that's funny for some here in this House, so what can we expect? There they were killed, all of them there in the pit went Croatian women and children, family... Three underage children, etc., and that head of OZNA gives an interview, why we are where we are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't we have a sovereign state, but the EU's satellite where we take the directives from cultural Marxists, and that, sitting in the EU, you have a pedophile on the Internet, look at that. Daniel Cohn-Bendit is called where he describes how wonderful it is to make love to a five-year-old child, and it comes here. Now the Istanbul Convention has passed, and now there will be curricular reform and you will be a teacher and look the child in the eye to see what will be studied in schools. Not to mention social sciences, and then the abortion bill will come. 70% of this aggressive LGBT lobby funds the EU with tax money, your money. And 30% of Mr Soros who has now launched an action to legalise abortion in Catholic countries, Poland, Hungary, Croatia. Here, and we sit, silent, and what has been proven for the last 30 years? That this is just a smoke screen. If the state had run us, there was no lustration law, we were led by nearly three Joshuas. Joža from Bjelovar, one is Joža now there in Munchen, former UDBA chief and the third, Mr. Boljekovac, 500 mass graves in Karlovac you have, Mr. Matic Fred, 500 mass graves in Karlovac. And where is he now? He's gone and we have neither integrity nor spirit of truth to say how many people there have been killed, Croatian peasants. And here you have the HSS that defends the biggest failed experiment in the history of Southeast Europe. Here's where we are days, there's no catharsis until there's no truth, and that's where we'll be stuck another 10 years of dictatorship if this is how we rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77739	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77740	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] We continue with the session and, in accordance with Article 249, we move on to the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives. This was requested by the Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia and SDP's Advocacy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77741	A letter dealing with corruption and malversion of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Council for, the National Council for the Implementation and Control of Corruption was submitted in February 2018. And it's dedicated to more addresses than Prime Minister Plenkovic. There's no Mr. Jovanovic now, but there's a lot of evidence here with those malfeasances. This is thicker than war and the peace of Tolstoy's book. I'm just gonna take some things out here for a little while. As an example of one, you have a first example of corruption, for example, Mrs Bertol Skushen, who received incomes and did not even work at the workplace. That's... documentation, it's never been to the workplace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know how much money she raised. I used to talk about malfeasances, people with fake diplomas, with fake French doctorates who were receiving money that wasn't according to their professional preparation. Maybe they didn't even finish third grade. For example, you have another example, there are more of them because these are Mr. Yosko Paro in Washington, the ambassador. He's been there longer than Queen Victoria has been in power, and the government has been there for 80 years. He's still there, and he's damaged the state budget for 1.7 million kuna, and there's still a head there. Here. Now that documentation is divided into all ministries from the highest level to the tactical level, nothing happens, and I think this is the only state where high treason is paid. We have, for example, one party, I can't mention the name of that party, but some heads were here this morning talking about academic cooperation, working with the diaspora. But they worked their whole lives against the diaspora, spreading false information about the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, sending there, ratting out the International Court, etc. And not only that, but they are again on the Committee on Foreign Policy in the Croatian Parliament. Unheard of, unimaginable. I'm looking for a quick investigation, and I'm asking that those cases of ineffectiveness down there, where you have a thousand pending cases of citizenship, and that it's investigated to the end, and that people get away from those people because it's a moral crime and a rape of a healthy mind. And these people have no place in foreign policy, because some of these national personnel came from South diplomacy to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. That should be cleared up, we should put the right young people who speak English or other languages, not to speak English like Winnetou from that movie over there that was made here. We're looking for integrity and professionalism, as fast as we can... We will improve our progress in foreign policy and better cooperate with the diaspora. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77742	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77743	The next will be on behalf of the club Independent for Croatia, the respected representative Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77744	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well done, Minister Zekanovic. So, yesterday, there was a conference at the University of Catholics... Facing the past in SEE Europe with communist crimes, was it any of ours? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I couldn't come, was our lumen one here doctor of history, maybe he got a French doctorate there from Mostar as he knew history and there he sat up, he's gone today, now he's gone somewhere. Here's why today continues to manipulate victims II. World War I? Why didn't we solve it? Who's in the interest of who? Why are we repeating the Bolshevik thesis today, the communist, the great Serbian as the historical truth? Why is that? Based on this, the starting point is the Jasenovac camp. Like this, 10 years Society of historians, Croatian Society of Dr. Horvat's only investigating that society, that camp. You have our young historian Blanca Matkovic, her assistants, etc. So far they've been blocked in... The media, it's all completely blocked, the media is afraid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The theme of this conference that was there was facing the past called between truth and fear. The thing is, we're stuck here between truth and lies. On that signature, that society of historians Dr. Horvath found thousands of names duplicated, people who died after the war, faked, people without a name. For example, just one example, here's an example of Stanko Nik, died in 2010 and is being led as a victim of Ustasha terror, and at his funeral was Prime Minister Andrija Plenkovic. Why do anti-fascists do that? Why did they lie? They're lying today. Some documents, archives back in Belgrade in '90. The year, '89. They were a secret,... The commission that also handed over to the Germans for reparation of 1.7 million victims II. World War I. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the Germans and the others saw it, they put it down to 600,000, and what's hiding there? They hide their crimes and this is the largest division in Croatian society, you have thousands of mass graves in Croatia, Slovenia, not since '45. Next, before that. I'd been wondering here since the Croatians died, the Kulen Vakuf had ever gone very anti-fascists to Kulen Vakuf,... 2,000 people were killed fivefold in example 1. '42. In September, there's Bosniaks, Croats, here's where they ever went? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They ever went to camp Valpovo after '45. Some of the 66,000 Germans were killed by women, children, old men and children. Why are you manipulating children? Why manipulation? Well, shame on you. Dodig comes into town and says 35,000 kids. Fired Krauss comes on Sunday at 2:00 and says 20,000, so how come you're not embarrassed? Why did you split up on your victims and our victims? Go up to Valpovo, you have one picture of the starving German, the little boy, the only one, the only picture of that victim of those Germans. Is that justice or rematch? What else is that? That's where you didn't lay the wreaths. What were you hiding? You've been hiding, for example. that only proven, forensic records that were killed since May of '45. until September '45. That the communists killed 200,000 people, they killed 200,000 people, and that's where people sit and defend that doctrine. So how can he go ahead, where's the wartime speech committee? Where are the young historians? Not these historians at the Faculty of Philosophy. In the end like this, you have proof that... After '45. concrete evidence, to date, is ignored by this facility in Jasenovac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not what you're talking about. I'll share a memo today let them look at this and find the courage to talk about this subject and why we don't have a commission for war and shit... in Croatia? Why is this taboo topic even to this day? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end how these fruits for eternity and for these, I call them antifascised, the fruits for eternity will be this, lies and deception. You have a book written by Just Yvette,... Partizan, where he mentioned this, says the biggest flaw of partisans is a lie. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We live in a lie today. And today we are being followed by this great Serbian propaganda, the Communist and Minister Bauk are not here, but this is with us the fifth column of '45. years, fifth column of those... Antifazed and that's why you can't go ahead. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Were you anywhere, my friend? Nowhere, you have no idea of your history You're historically illiterate and you're a privileged liar. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77745	Comrade Glasnović, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77746	The second debate, on behalf of MPs' club Independent for Croatia, respected colleague Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77747	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we heard about the LNG terminal this morning. It's a subject of time. And what strategy is Croatian for energy, what happens in the neighborhood? Have you heard anything in the media, in the Parliament, that it is working in Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and perhaps on the Sava between the Croatian border and Serbia, that hundreds of hydropower plants will be built and what will happen to the neighbourhood, with these river corridors and with the whole region? ... 20% of freshwater fish will disappear, as far as I know, migration corridors for birds etc., methane will be raised, methane emissions to the sky, nobody's talking about it, other countries plan it, huge amounts of gas found in Boca Kotarska, and there soon the project starts drilling in Boca Kotarska, the state-owned Montenegro company will drill, and we wait, we tap in place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the EU funded, telling us to reduce carbon hydrogen emissions, and now they've funded two coal plants in Greece and Western Macedonia that will produce 7 million tonnes of annual emissions, these air pollutions and tell us one thing, finance another, these projects of 1.7 billion euros have been financed. We tap in place, we don't have a long-term but also a short-term strategy for energy independence and we wait and tap in place. And we're talking about the LNG terminal, and we don't have all the data at the waist site yet, etc., but we're getting into eco-feminists and eco-terrorists, as I would call them. In the end, he would separate something else, another part of this exposure, to go back to propaganda,... Mr Dacic's propaganda which he said is not Serbia as Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course not. The biggest problem in this part of Europe was great Serbian imperialism. These are historical facts. I would suggest to him that he go back to school, learn something that was done there in 1912, that happened here, said here, and I didn't get any answer from our lumens here on the left that was killed only in Kosovo in 1912 by about 40,000 Albanians, in peace. What about the sledgehammer? '21. years,... In peace, thousands of murdered women, children, old men? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about Albania in the 20s where Serbian forces entered... And killed 90,000 Albanians there? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They turned this valley into dust and ashes in peace. What about 300 Croatian peasants killed in '35? years, two priests, etc., etc. Here, mostly in peace. Speaking of the Jewish issue in Belgrade, the first... The state in Europe was Belgrade because they hunted these people, taught them to the Germans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For deportation they killed there at the fair, outside Belgrade, it's a historical fact. The last synagogue was brought down in Belgrade somewhere over there, forgive me in Novi Sad in 1947. That's not a word. I'm a philosopher, why can't Serbia go any further? Because he lives in a lie. That's where the best liars on the continent rule. There are 80% of the people there, they've never heard of Srebrenica. In this past war, 90% committed crimes in violation of war law committed by large Serb troops and so on. The JNA that was a de facto Serb army. Here's just to quote this, he died in Belgrade in 2004, Nikola Bojanic, a Chetnik who runs the columns that were killed in the Sanjak in '43. in the year 8,000 women, old men and children, and this one at the funeral in Belgrade in 2004, as one mitropolis said, said he was a knight of spirit, faithful to mother's milk and to the king's homeland. Now, that's Chetism, in the right form, and they're giving us historical lessons. It needs to come to an end and someone who is historically written to address them with a diplomatic note to see what they were doing in 1912 until today. It's a historical truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77748	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77749	We now have the basis of Article 249 and the views of the Club of Representatives, the first registered on behalf of the Club of Representatives Independent for Croatia, the esteemed colleague Željko Glasnović. A fellow Bunjac from the Living Wall, a colleague of the bush from the MOST, have they still signed up? A colleague of Vlaovic, anyone else? No one, thank you. Here you go, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77750	Dear colleagues, this morning was this debate, a lot of topics, laws, digital security, etc. I don't think there's any important things we've mentioned that's this analyst, we have independent analysts to analyze misinformation, cyber attacks, digital malversions. For example. You have one keybinding, it's called bots, it means that someone out there can be an enemy, a friend, has out of this domain in the virtual world, has... accounts where he pays certain specific groups to wage a war or campaign against someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have had a lot of experience with both in Croatia, e.g. Soros, Radio 101, Platform 112, and this other group, the anti-Croatian group, it continues in a different form today. Here, you have, for example. The Atlantic Digital Forensics Group, are we tied up with them, I don't know, I know some of these tactics against it, these misinformations. How do we use this information? The collection, that's the first intelligence data, actually the step in gathering information is the collection, the second is analysis, I think we're playing a lot, the third is division and the fourth is counterintelligence. Facebook, I've been blocked for the third time by a Facebook page. How and why? There's no answer. That means someone is still expanding this Trojan horse, and misinformation, and another source of total misinformation of one systematic idiotisation is Wikipedia. Has anyone even analyzed who puts, updates Wikipedia's themes? When you read Wikipedia, you'd think Trotsky Love Bronstein was actually Albert Schweitzer, a great humanitarian who works in Africa with lepers, and the story of course is completely different. This morning, Mr. Pernar mentioned that someone here had been arrested recently for some Sundays in Tunisia. You want to find something on Wikipedia? I doubt it. We need critical information to preserve as sovereign state, critical information, our problem just as externally as internal, meaning social anarchy, unregulated institutions, independent and independent institutions, corruption in... etc. Here, now we have a board of corruption control, BOOK, MUP, etc., let them sit down, let them find answers to some key questions. You have thousands of companies in Croatia that have no operational basis, thousands of companies. They don't have any workers, no management, no technical skills at all, but they're picking up money, and that money might be going out. That's what Croatian voters are interested in, where is the money coming here, that's out, where are the bank accounts? Not only the 90s further, but from before and where is this money and how much has been brought back to the Croatian state, where are the results? We're looking for results. The fruit of these intelligence stores, I'm looking for the fruit of these shops, clear answers, clear laws, and we're looking for, I've already said in my previous speech, that it took us 30 years to create professionals, we don't have them yet. It's the cancer of Croatian society's wounds. No evaluations, no standard procedures, and I'm gonna say that like a parrot until we wake up. But one thing we forget, why are we looking at all this? And that's the taboo theme in Croatia. And this taboo topic is a mental heritage from the former system where the concept of personal responsibility has been totally annulled, that's why we have what we have. And if we keep working like this, I'd say if we didn't wake up fast, we'd have a Venezuela scenario and an even bigger social anarchy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77751	I thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77752	We are now going to the Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia, a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77753	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Here, we hear every day of promises from the parties, we have programs that the Pentagon doesn't have, long-term, short-term, promise everything from nirvana to working paradise, to Valhalla, so all the benefits, but I will disappoint you here and there's nothing to do if we don't solve one key problem that I've been talking about 50 times here. And that's how none of this is gonna work out until we become proactive, not reactive society, and we're still a reactive society, and why is that? Because there's still no monitoring and field check on how it's supposed to work. And he's based on one principle and that's the principle of individual responsibility. And that's the key problem. Because that former system produced a man, and I'm going to say that again, and again it's a taboo topic, a man who is morally, mentally and economically dysfunctional. And that's the key problem. What to say is, there's a committee, there's a bunch of ministries, there's a law, there's a key law that has its own deadline, there's still no telling who's responsible for it. Someone must be responsible at every level and it is missing in the Croatian state. We have an example. Here is a recently opened source of information, DUUDI, Ministry of State Real estate, now found after 30 years and that they have one hotel in Pula that has not been registered, a hotel. Six more objects were found on Pag. And I wonder what that brigade was doing, the clerks employed there in that ministry so far. And thousands of heads that live in other people's apartments and that's where we are. Here, I hope that Mr. Maric will run that cut from Zagreb 5km away, you have a dump Calcutta up there. You can only expect it to also work there as is usually a group detachment, where they sit on the beach in Calcutta, Bombei and talk while they make a big emergency. We can expect that. And where are the surveillance services? Nowhere, just spikes, nothing else. Public works, bridge on Ciovo. So wait, you wrote the contract and in the peak season there's a bridge down there. So who's responsible for it? No one's responsible. Where's that... From Viaduct, he signed the contract, the contract is a legal document, of which none. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have an example. Recently, Bosiljevo, the Krkrk cave, called the “baby poop, ” all found from diapers to engines. And what about the other pits, I won't talk about other pits. We have other pits where they threw something else, for example. The doves, Kevin's pit, Hussa's pit where the Croats ended. And we must remember that as we praise the Red Army that killed more officers than the Germans and tens of millions killed Christians until '39. For years, as we celebrate the Red Army and so on. The day of occupation and antifascism when the opancharists came to Zagreb there, on the 5th month, etc.. Here, we've actually become, to go back to the main topic, we've become genetic anarchists. Why? Because we don't have a system and every system is based on individual responsibility. Until we get rid of it, until we have a system like that, we might be the symbol of that thing down there. I saw it on TV recently, St. It was a duo, St. Duje. And down here, people came in, they made lambs and lambs for two brigades. And one over there raised his food and he's moaning about how he's not doing well, he'd rather have roasted lamb, here. And so come the heads here. I get 10 heads a day. Of those ten, seven tries to trick you. One hip about not having a scholarship for kids and snaps every day I think three boxes of Marlboro, that's a month, how many thousands of kunas and 15 beers a day. And that's us Croats, here we go. And we're moaning. We've become on call crying, but we need to be proactive. And everyone at their level has to fix the problem when they see it. Because this is how we're gonna stay the way we were before the tomato republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77754	The next colleague is Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77755	Dear colleagues and colleagues, key issues for Croatian health, pension system, here is another key issue and some factors that will decide that Croatia will position itself globally, in this part of Europe as a country, that is energy, green energy, environmental protection. There we heard in this House a lot of theories, no scientific, technical data. Here we are sitting here, I've called some agencies, Croatian institutions, ministries, there's a lot on paper, in practice what it looks like, incomplete information I have. When it comes to hydrocarbons and sulphur, so if there is any data from the former country, you had plants from Split to Rijeka, Tuzla, Zenica, Slavonski Brod, the grey industry. The Czechs made data on these black points from the former system, in some villages where these gray mastodons were socialist, they have data, cancer levels, respiratory problems, etc. That's where some people stand, not to forget the recovery of those ugly things. For example. The harvester, how much it cost tens of millions of kuna to resuscitate such a failed project, is not over until today. How many black dots do we still have the same old system we're not talking about, and how much is it going to cost? Speaking of solar energy, you now have eco feminists, eco terrorists, solar energy, yes. And how long has it been to occupy solar energy, these plates, the territory? You've got heavy metals in them, yeah, heavy metals, lead, other metals, and that's why you have to be mining somewhere and the duration is 25 years. And what's going on? When they're done here, then they're sent to Africa for... States. We don't have complete data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The concept... management, recycling in Denmark 1% waste at landfills in Croatia 78%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are we talking about? And we have a population of most of this suburban London, we can't solve it. That problem in your heads would be in a system that didn't work. Six contaminants were the sixth... After these other metals and other emissions of harmful and international shipping, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's going on in Croatia? I've seen it float and not just a methane show, etc. from international shipping, as far as it goes through the Adriatic, no one's talking about it. And they're already on their feet for this LNG terminal, and they don't have full data. I've seen her float from... in Croatia, where ships are getting rid of their waste because it costs a lot more to recycle and store it somewhere, they throw it on the Croatian coast. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Watch what happens in Dubrovnik, Mljet, etc. Nothing to anyone. Water. 80% of the water in Europe is recycled for industrial purposes. In Croatia, who knows, who cares. The groundwaters. The karst karsts throw everything from wrecks to medical waste, which is the most dangerous, and a lot of the population in Croatia depends on these groundwaters. What's the score? What's been cleaned up? We pulled three hundred cars out of the national parks, what can we expect from these other questions, and what's going on here? But what about the institutions, the ministries and the operational measures they've taken. I don't see it in the field, here. I mentioned it the day before yesterday, 5 km from Zagreb you have there Calcutt in miniature and no one at all. Then we remember the former state where we couldn't find toilet paper from Karlovac to the sea, when we spoke take toilet paper, then a new kind of art developed, fecalography when you had to wipe your butt with something else and on the wall etc., here we are still at that stage. We've got a lot of spikes, but the spike doesn't cook rice. We have the mentality of fecalography. We're looking for operationals, results on the ground, less spikes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77756	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77757	Here's our time here's an hour. Here you go, dear colleague Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77758	Dear colleague Sincic and others, there's no one here, I'll say some things about tomorrow, we know where we're going. Here we go to Austria, some people forgot what was there in '45. There's been the greatest massacre in Europe ever. It was killed there, according to some estimates, by two Slovenian institutes of the state's investigative agency, that more than 100,000 people were killed there in May. You have graves, forensic records, you have..., antitank trenches, Janez Valley, Pečnik Mine, Macelj, Kočevski Horn where Shimo Dubajić said 33,000 human beings were killed. And now, miracles of wonder Mr. Bajic wakes up and moves in front of a man who dies, a penitent, at least repents of these mass murder charges. Of course, too little. But what was the overture of it? After that, we have 1750 mass graves, in Gospić killing people by September '45. In 3,4,000 years, it has been visited by a member of HDZ by our gynecologist, a taboo topic in Gospić, there is no house in Caniza Main Street where a family where someone has not been killed by communists, you have camp Prečko in Zagreb, tens of thousands of prisoners of war is missing, you have hundreds of mass graves around Karlovac, Bjelovar, every capital in Croatia. It's not gonna happen. But let's personalize these victims a little bit, and we know that we have more than 10 Katin forests in Slovenia where thousands and thousands of Polish intellectual officers have been killed, for example. Ljudevit Jurak, a Croatian forensic scientist who discovered these horrors in Katin forest and Ukraine where the NKVD Russian secret police killed thousands of people. He was killed here after the war. Why was he killed? He was discovering the truth, it wasn't what those who sang gave birth to the mother of two heroic sons of Tito and Stalin, here's little Stalin... here. Who else is wrapped up, raped, tortured and torn apart? Mirna and Jasna Frkovic are 22 and 16 years old. Who was they to blame? Grozda Budak tortured, perhaps in Gracans for 21 years, such people have disappeared, not only the aristocracy of Croatia, why we are where we are today. The cream de la cream of the Croatian people disappeared after '45. A year. And what did we get? That can't be said says Glasovic here, and we're a genetically disturbed people, they've been killed... since 18, 23 years old no child has ever had and who came after that? Those who sing came, I have a hat with three horns... against God. They're still here today and they're hiding it today. Where's justice? Nothing out of justice. No indictment, Bajic is... history as the biggest non-worker and moral criminal in Croatia's history for failing to press any charges. What about the 1481 article on the conviction... of the crime? Nothing, it's just a story. Let's just go upstairs and tell a story. It'll all be forgotten. At the same time, we haven't figured out a combination of cocardine and five-pointers yet. What happened in '41? It was '91. And we're still living in total historical darkness. Here, for example. In the daily newspaper here you have this Express, a former UDBA assassin, the Syndician painting here with pictures. Convicted of murder, attempted murder of Nikola Študul and others, he's now a TV star, he's now Croatian James Bond. In Free Dalmatia recently, I say captured Dalmatia one there so-called. The journalist says he'd rather run off to Bleiburg and go through all the suffering of the Crossroad only if he didn't have to listen to Mira Bulj in the Assembly. And the deaths of those hundreds of thousands of people have become a joke in Croatia from such... And while we watch these people, Vulin and the official delegation in Serbia, place their crowns on Chetnik Draža Mihajlovic, Croatia has nothing at all, and there is no victim at all, there is no formal commission for the victims of World War II, there is nothing of it, we know our dead, we know no one is accused, and not only that we have no museum of the last war, and in the school class there is no two hours I think that says what happened about this war last and we are surprised that we still live in the historical darkness.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77759	Time, Mr. Glasnovic. You always stick to the time, when I say time you stop. Thank you for your disciplined behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77760	We are now going to the Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia and colleague Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77761	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Listen to this this morning I think you'd lead the whole nation to the edge of suicide and we'd think today that we're living somewhere maybe on the edge of an economic collapse like '29. For years, there on the Wall Street, the Great Depression and that we're somewhere on World War III. What's the real situation? Here. This morning someone on the committee spoke with the European Commission against racism and intolerance at the Council of Europe. I hear something below has hate, a hate speech against LGTB groups, attacks on the Roma, on the Serb minority. So where did you get the data? Where are the police reports? Where are these areas? Where is it? Yes... I don't know any Roma who's been attacked in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's that? And in fact, what's behind it? That rat line, no, you're communists, your brains are destroyed by it. Okay, well, who are the most endangered Croats? Catholics. You have a procession at the Easter Princess, there Catholics throw water at them from the balcony. They're cursing people, look at the websites. With you can, only the Croats can spit on Catholics. You had Rose Chavar, they broke her arm there in the flower square of militant atheists. Now you have a referendum where the people want to make a statement on world-famous issues. That makes it impossible for them. Up there, Mr. Red Obersnel, who answered there last year from the Aurora cruiser, celebrating Lenin's syphilist, he won't let people make a statement about the referendum. We've got the animal farm again. Yeah, that. All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. That's what you've got today. And who are they? Here, you have there if you watched, there was one parliamentary representative, recently he was up on the flat mountain where they celebrated there, you hear the tea, the Yugoslav flags, the Yugoslav flags, who attacked you here? And that's not forbidden. And behind every corner you see the Ustashas. Has anyone here taken an Ustasha oath? I don't see it. But you have a communist... and that's what you have here and that's the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here. You kill everyone in people. It is a process, those who have never wanted a Croatian state, it is the media of NGOs and it is their job to keep Croatia on the accused bench all the time. What was down there... on Man, Bleiburg up now, making up some kind of enemies all the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how it's been since '45. It's the same today. And what do you wonder about Agrokor? So why are you surprised? All of your economists in all governments were Godfather's students, in the SDP, HDZ,... The central committee and you're surprised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So why are you surprised? So you'd think you had that... corruption, you have a corruption index. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is of 186 countries, Croatia is 56. According to you, the media would think we live there in El Salvador where you have murders every day. To live in... But that's exactly the way it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Oh, yeah. The trial, it's only one, it's the project and plan of those who never wanted the Croatian state to totally demonize it. That's what they're living off today, that's what they're doing. That's theirs. But that Croatia was the most developed democracy and 41st, 1991. They would attack her because they never wanted her, they never wanted her. You don't want her, you proved it by your work. Non-stop from affair to affair, self-indiction, snitching. So create a system. I'll take care of your country in four months. In four months, I'll get you state-of-the-art. If you can't do that, here, no problem. We will form an army, police, mobile courts from municipality to municipality and strike. I'll check your assets, how's that? You didn't have a bike, and now you have apartments upstairs and you're bad. You make new choices. You've never been a worker and that red nobility, red bourgeoisia, and you're still bothered by the Croatian state. You can't admit that, and it stings you like a rock in a shoe up there and we're still under ideological media occupation, but the people, you can't idiotize the people anymore. This isn't '45 anymore when they read... When they spoke of the press, the most powerful weapon of our party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you have Internet friends and friends, you can't idiotize people anymore. Like this and when you go to that blizzard of ex-major liars, rats from NGOs, those who keep hitting the Croatian state, there you had in the sacred square, three days ago funeral for the Republic of Croatia, huh, those are the heads. And you won't make it, I say, you failed in '91. You won't today either.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77762	Are you staying for the injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77763	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, you have violated Article 240. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you did not warn a representative who, by his conduct, deviated from the general rules of conduct of the Parliament, which is an art. In 238, I mean, a man just before called for violence, insulted us here, called us. I mean, if anything in life means anything to you, he called us communists, said we never wanted a Croatian state. I mean, this is where the people who did time for this country sit. Is that acceptable to you, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77764	Thank you very much. You can bang, but I've heard unacceptable grades and by your president for some people sitting here. So this is free speech, this is free speech. Everyone has a right... and make their views known, and the citizens will judge, which is right here and which is not, and I beg you, get used to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you knew that well and I'm giving you a warning. Let's move on now, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77765	Mr. President, you've injured an officer. 240th seems to me, and in 238, you can't give a representative a warning because he opposed hate speech in the Croatian Parliament, so that's not allowed. What does that mean, if you say, well we heard from the other side, what are we going to do to get down to that level, start talking to each other rats? You didn't want a Croatian state, so is that normal behavior for you? So come on, try to understand that you dictate the pace, if you so easily move your hands, says, well, that's what you hear, so that's normal. Well, tomorrow we'll start to insult ourselves here, all together, that is, those who are irresponsible, and apparently there are. So you must direct the debate and not allow such speeches in the Croatian Parliament. It has nothing to do with the public and what the citizens are listening to. It's got something to do with you. [[Intruder: Thank you, your time is up, your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77766	My colleague Maras is out of time, and I'm holding the debate, which is sometimes on the edge of a speech that is unacceptable to me, but people are saying this is the Croatian Parliament and are responsible for what they say. So don't warn me that I broke my rules of procedure, because there could be a lot of things in your presentations... Well, you said other ugly things. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So please let's get this over with. There goes the debate further, if necessary, I'll intervene. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77767	Mr. President, an officer has been injured. 239. Rules of Procedure, you gave notice to the representative Glavasevic, and did not violate any of the provisions of Art. 238. which is the basis for giving a warning and if you think this breach of my rules of procedure is not correct, I declare that I will make a written complaint to the Committee on the Constitution, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77768	It's legitimate and you have the right to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77769	On behalf of MPs' Club Independent for Croatia, respected colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77770	Dear colleagues, this morning I was talking about our citizens up in Austria who were arrested as common criminals, they were removed from the bus code by bank robbers or some international terrorist. The oldest man, Ivan Dujmovic, is 83 years old, he led a Bleiburg platoon behind him, one Angelko Bosancic only 71 years old and the other. But instead of the Austrian authorities dealing with the killings in Korusca that have been committed by bandits there with a five-pointer, there are about 1,000 Austrians killed, they're taking these people off the bus. It's not only unwarranted, it's a moral crime and someone has to report from diplomacy. Here, diplomacy is a blade. The blade is the diplomacy of every country. The innocent Austrians were also killed there. That's what we should be dealing with, not our men from the Bleiburg water. Second. The second part of this exposure I would like to draw attention to the question of what is going on with local investment. People come almost every day, what's going on? I would say to us who follows these investments, which are investments, what is rejected, for what reasons. In a healthy economy, most people are employed in small, medium-sized enterprises, not mega corporations and state-owned companies. Here, you have, for example. This example of the character. An investment of 150m euros. No one has heard of it, the German company, is now the company in Hungary, and it could have hired maybe 50 people. You have Istria... You want only 30 million euros pure energy is required one down, place at the port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man is looking for this red Emperor Obersnel. Of course, he didn't even see him. It may be too small for him to bite, 30m euros because they may have realized that this Rijeka Bank, they stole twice as much, maybe it was a slightly better investment worse. What about Rijeka Bank when we talk about Agrokor, sucking roads, these others, etc., etc. Nothing. It's being silenced and forgotten. It came and gone. Here. Here, you have now HUP made a short summary of long-term social development. Did the government look at that? Of course, these people work, they need help, they need to end that red tape, and let's look at it, and here we see for a little bit that he has the RH above. It is almost beneath those other countries that are new EU members. Why is that? When are we going to run those so-called so-called. reforms and what are we waiting for? That means, you have multitasking, all tasks go simultaneously, we don't have to wait, let's immediately end that red tape and start with investments to ease the fiscal burdens that people can work. To set the same standards for everyone, not just for state-owned companies. In the end, here's the third part of the exhibition. Graduation. Croatia takes over the presidency of the Council of Europe in 2020 from Bulgaria. The man who led, led and today's co-ordination for the presidency was recently an ambassador to Belgrade, and he had to send a fax to my knowledge to ask during the Storm whether he should have brought down the Croatian flag in Belgrade to half the spear or was removed because in Serbia, the Storm was marked as a day of mourning and I wonder when this catharsis in diplomacy would come to national people who would deal with economic diplomacy, the settlement of disputes for citizenship and who would work in the interest of the Croatian state, and not for their asses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77771	I thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77772	Thank you. We are now going to the Adviser's Club Independent for Croatia, dear colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77773	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Where'd you get this agonokor psychosis? I'd think we live in Venezuela or maybe there's Honduras or Las Salvador. History is full of these economic debates, you have here, recently you have a failure in 2008 where the US government invested 700 billion dollars has invested in saving the banking sector and the real estate sector, but there was a simple bill there, if the Croatian state was paying for the rescue of Agrokor in some way, if that is so, then of course that money is coming back. That's how it happened with... In the United States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The money was invested, the money was expected to be returned. Speaking of referendums, is there a referendum on what Croatian voters think in the current rescue of Agrokor, yes or no? We don't have that kind of knowledge. What do we find out from the media? Nothing, new psychosis and new smoke without fire. This is now an exceptional situation to stabilise the financial sector and improve economic efficiency for future cases and not to raise some kind of panic as if a far-out East Stock Exchange were going down here, so it behaves. Speaking of which, let's set new standards in the private sector, here's Mr. Todorovic. Did Mr. Todorovic talk to Mr. Strok in London who sold the hotel there for 35 million pounds? What about those oligarchs before, the red oligarchs? Tedeschi, Todorovic, Končar, Špiljak, no one asks where their origins are, where did that come from? Mr. Strok, the Pussy Partisan general from Velion, where did this wealth come from? Here's what this new state's attorney is going to do that says he's not getting out of war profit when the money's been made by those red oligarchs? Yeah, we got friends and friends, we got socialism for the rich, and capitalism for the poor. While I was here on socialism, there was a party once called the Union of Communists of Croatia, here we are talking about a referendum. And what happened in the '90s when they voted for a referendum, to get out of Yugoslavia? They're out. Now coming 25.6.1991, you had 3 councils, 107 members of the Croatian Communist Union, voted against. 27 The messengers came out of the congregation, and went into the forest, and that is not to be said. Who handed over the weapons of the Too there, the weapons of territorial defense? Yeah, I know it's coming here, there's a defender here, so we didn't have ammunition, we don't have a ammunition factory today. Who handed over 200,000 automatic weapons? 1200 cannons, 80 000 tonnes of ammunition and today we don't have ammunition factories in Croatia, everything was down in BiH and Serbia, so you didn't know who you lived with for the 50, 60 years. But the wolf, you know that hair changes but something else doesn't. And what happened? The party split into two factions, and when you found out that those who switched the five-square for gambling would come here, then they panicked. And today we're talking about a referendum. What kind of referendum? Here, the Festival of Democracy, and when it was supposed to vote for real, crucial changes, you weren't there, and you were going to impose a referendum on us today. By what standards, what moral right? Here's your democracy festival, for example, my personal example, mother, we lived in an apartment of 20 squares, 3 generations, everything has been taken away and your mother has been taken down to Petrinsko, my mother who hasn't worked for 10 years for questioning because she tried to sabotage the local elections, which is this Federation of Communists of Croatia that you inherited and played the great Democrats, the regiment, the mere trick. You stayed the same, the same. And Mr. Obersnel, this second character from IDS, against the militarization of Istria, so you didn't object, I was up there, I formed 1. ZNG in Opatija, there Mamula villa had it down there, Admiral. When we were walking up, the South Officers, the South Admirals, there full of ports of south ships, it didn't bother anyone, and now you're at a democracy festival. It's just a story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77774	Thank you, fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77775	The next club of representatives is the independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Glasnović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77776	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Time goes on, the world changes every day. Some strategic issues can't touch the site or plan to implement these strategic goals talk about a topic, a strategic topic, and now it's a historic time for Croatia to create a real energy policy. We hear a lot from energy independent, diversification, etc. And we still don't have the concept of circular economy. We have a lot of spikes, a lot of wikipedias from details, and we're in no condition to classify the waste. I said a week ago 1% of the waste classification, Denmark, and Croatia is not 78%, and we have a population of 4.5 million people. Of course you're going that shift of classic fuels towards green energy. What does it look like out there? By 2025, the efficiency of dual vehicle fuel in the EU will have to be improved, which means renovating the entire system in the auto-industry. In America by 2030, America will be dependent on oil and gas, today it will raise oil production up to 20 million barrels a day. Where are we with independence energy? By 2040, all fuel-powered vehicles were classic fuel, gasoline, diesel, etc. will be excluded from traffic in France and England. That's what I said before, technology data on clean and scientific data to make a decision, we don't have it yet. There's absolutely no clean energy anywhere, here's cobalt, cobalt is needed for batteries, computers, cell phones and other minerals. China today has a third of the world's cobalt that's known. Hydropower plants, those products of methane tones and tonnes of methane per day, and only 1.2% of energy needs are addressed globally. You got lead, what about lead? Every year half a million die from lead poisoning. It costs Africa about $135 billion a year only in an industrial output production. What's reality? We won't be able to replace all fossil fuels, that's reality. Solar energy annually creates twice as many Mount Everest wastes from heavy metals, and solar farms occupy almost 100% more territory than classic nuclear power plants. Here and where are we? Gas, now we're talking about the LNG terminal, now we're going to build a north stream 2 that will be delivered from Russia to Europe, here's already got a deal from the European Commission and... Where are we? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're still discussing gas. We have no clear idea. The longer we wait, the more money we lose, here, in the next five years the gas demand is going to increase 20%, where are we? Nowhere. Lithuania built the LNG terminal, it's in operation today. What percentage do we want somewhere? What percentage of energy, sunlight, wind, do we have any idea what that's going to look like? But we're not going to shut down the fossil fuel completely. We will lose only the geostrategic position, while other countries will build LNG terminals, such as perhaps Montenegro, Albania and perhaps Kopar in Slovenia. Any ship that docks here on gas could bring maybe 90,000 euros, where are we? Nowhere. We don't have a clear idea, and we're going to go back to using this sheep manure, cow dung, etc. We will be trapped between the gray industry of the former South and the visible Milan, we may have to ask this brother who heals the view to solve our energy crisis, while we wait and waste time and resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77777	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77778	We are going to the last debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, MP Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77779	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. Yesterday, the president presented her programme for the restoration of demographics but one criticism here. At least she showed the urgency atmosphere that no government has ever shown. We wait years for structural reforms, we tap in place. We've spent the future, but of course we have to move on, it's not despair, we are where we are. I wish she'd used one term post, no sideline, but we're still in transition from one party system to pluralism, that's not what nobody's saying, it's taboo topic here. There are heirs from the former system who have proved so far that they cannot modernise the state. All of this needs a logical order. What order does it take? We can't put a car in front of a horse. I presented my program a year ago, the first step was to professionalise public administration. Without the discipline of administrative we cannot build an effective state, we cannot do it without the staff who are professional and supervised. We don't have any evaluation systems at all, that's what I used to say. The second wheel of justice, we signed 700 laws from the EU, 700 laws and did not settle our yard. A dozen of the electorate's bodies are under wraps. Some are processes, and these are the consequences of something, the consequences of the former system where all fundamental human rights, the right to vote, the right to private property have been annulled. 70% of the cases that come here to the Committee in performances and complaints whose member I am relates to property-legal relations. We inherited that system and some here were talking a few months ago that we need to get the spirit of electricity back from '45. A year. None of the media responded, no one reacted. 1,000 more people live in other people's apartments. What about simple laws? If you can't, I've spoken to three, four lawyers, they can't interpret that stew themselves, they're breaking the law. Simple laws, if you don't know, rewrite simple laws. You have continental law, Commonwealth law you have, no bank has failed in Canada and New Zealand. New Zealand has no corruption at all. And we're in the middle of a ladder. These are the consequences of the former system. No one's talking about it, it's being ignored. Here, a year ago, I submitted a memo to the government, and I gave a memo to create a legal framework for the arrival of investments. I haven't got the answer yet. I don't know what was done about it. We still have bureaucracy, people are waiting for 3 years for citizenship, 5% of land books are arranged, we're talking about digitisation, and that's where Mr. Tolusic said when he was Minister of Agriculture, he said that 2.5 million kunas were spent on digitization and absolutely nothing was done. And we have more black clouds above our heads because some tell us that we won't finish digitizing land books until 2020, and we have a population of suburbs in London. Here. Did it take us 30 years, did it take 30 years to make a new law on Croatia's relationship with emigrants? People are waiting outside, some would come back. Some got double taxed. So it's simple. I proved a month and a half ago and more that it was intended sabotage, they didn't want those people here, some characters from... The regimes don't want these people here because they're afraid of their patriotism, their money powers and their abilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They'd have fixed your books in 30 days. You have geodetic data, satellite video, PIN number. No one can be copied to your particle. And what do we have? We've got loose ends, and we're still, I'm gonna say it again, we haven't come out of the one-party system. Here. No, we have taboo theme. One taboo theme is the mental set, the heritage of communism. That's the biggest obstacle. It hides in, we saw it from the HRT's reaction to Mr. Vukic's visit to HRT. We're still under pressure from the one-party system and personnel from... regimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You must also not speak, you have a third of Croats who have pathologically hated their country and are still influenced by that communist herdkeeper, his successors sitting here, here. No one's talking about it, we haven't even left the transition yet, and no one's wondering why no one is there, no one was digging a tunnel in the opposite direction before the Berlin Wall fell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77780	Thank you. This brings us to the end of free debates, so let's move on to the agenda now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77781	We will now interrupt the debate on this item on the agenda and on the basis of Article 249 and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we will move on to the presentation of the position on behalf of the club. The first reported on behalf of the Rada Party and solidarity, Reformist and Independent Representatives, a respected counterpart, Rechim Varda. He's gone. Next respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Croatia. Here's your colleague, Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77782	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing HAVC, I am not going to do too much, it is quite said, I now had in my hand a report from FINA where 30 million kuna was blacked out through this Croatian directors institution of HAVC. The question is money, Shakespeare or bread? It's good Shakespeare but bread, I wonder where the money is, 30 million kunas are blacked out. You also have the Audio-Visual Employees' Society also launched a criminal application, I mentioned a state audit here that took a negative assessment of HAVC's work. What are we going to talk about about our film industry, in general, about documentaries? We remain an insular society. This was mentioned by Mr. Culej and Mr. Zekanovic at the Court of the Union massacre. Who could finance something... That's what the Croatian tax collectors paid for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where I was talking about the Bear pocket a month ago. In Canada, a documentary about the greatest battle of the Croatian military has been made, in fact, by the Canadian army since the Korean War. There was no reaction since diplomacy. It was shown on public television in Canada, week, three weeks. Speaking of film, culture, I would say that the film, the ideologies of the former, will still generate cultural norms in Croatia. We de facto have a lot more of these mental Yugoslavs doing movies to us, looking out. I wonder, you'd be asking for information on how much money was invested. He mentioned Mr. Culej, say Zvizdan Dalibor Matanić, 4.8 million kuna, in the production of Kinorama from the same house how much money was returned, film is a product, is a good culture but it is not just a purpose to itself. You need to get the money back. Who gets the money back? Here's the mention of those Micky Mouse awards that someone blew up... That right here, I'd say they give it to us out of mercy because they see what kind of area we come from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia clears Agitprop. Kino Lika, we're coming... I watched it, and what do tourists see in the movie theater? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They see where a woman in general with a pig, great, we need to be shocked even more. What's the rest of that cultural heritage we're looking at, this Agitprop? Here, you have in Rome, the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb pays, the embassy below finances... Book promotion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is promoted down as Croatia's largest novelist. How? Where was she when the war was? She ran away, another mental Yugoslavian. We're talking about Brijuni, what's happening on Brijuni? I'd rather have Sherbetji, that Hollywood guy... Move actor, he comes here and occupys Brijuni with some other heads from the party here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For 7 euros a day or 7 kuna, I've already forgotten. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about Oliver Toss? Here, look, I'd say it's a product of untalented people who sell without principle to fools. Let him finance his own. We all know who's what, going to the bathroom after a big emergency, we've seen that, we don't need to watch that. That... The whole of a healthy mind, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Culture, here, it was funded by the city of Zagreb, it is not surprising to me because the city of Zagreb was also funded after the first gay parade led by Mr Maras, forgive Mr Maras, the gentleman of that former Ministry of the Ministry of Interior, who was the minister of the SDP, and afterwards was shared in Ban Jelačić Square by the manual for anal sex. Financed the city of Zagreb. Well scary, here, let them pay for their own cultural endeavors, it should not be paid by a taxpayer, a Croatian taxpayer. That's scary. We're still deep, deep in that one party system and those who wire the money are just for me, most of those heads, I mentioned the gentleman, let's say Mr. Grlic, clean... Yugoslavian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that movie, Loka, cleans Agiprop. He's gonna shock us? So you have defenders here who have seen, more shocked in life in one combat action and he will shock us. ... Smoke curtain, we're still deep, deep in one party system and we don't need to lick the team... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Yugoslavs need to be denied money, persecuted from the country, paid for their own money there, wired by donors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77783	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glasnovic, for this presentation of the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77784	Before you open the debate, I'd move on to taking a position on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives, we have four reports. ... Yeah, it's called a break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, at one o'clock, we usually have a point of view, do you want that or do you want that break where you have two minutes... Is that what you want and we have ten minutes? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, then. Here you go. Then we only have three reported. ... Mr. Glasnović, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77785	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. These days listening to these mantras of despair and helplessness from this House, I think we've groomed half of Croatia on the verge of suicide. Here, nothing works. Everything's great out there, etc. This image is encouraged by non-stop media, NGOs, portals that are actually incubators of Yugoslavia, here. They never wanted this country. I've been out there for 30 years, what's the situation out there, here. The world isn't the same as it was 30 years ago. In Canada real estate, Ireland, other places jumped 300 and 400% of the property through the ceiling. A house that cost 85. The years, the ones going to Canada, '85. It was $105,000. Now the same house is minimum 600,000, here. What about the real estate tax? It'll be paid at $300,000 minimum you'll pay $3.5,000. You don't have a house under $2.5 million in Vancouver. What, are you gonna go outside? You'll be working for a minimum wager that was still $11.5 to $15 an hour. You're gonna do two jobs, you're gonna go outside, then you're gonna have to do this, you're gonna have to requalified. If you think you've finished some college here, it'll still take a while. Where's the food, the water, the kids, etc. Here. Germany, Germany, here. This de facto euro has been converted to brand. It's all collected twice. Real estates went up there too, but if your salary is an average of between 1.5-2 000 euros, what's left for you after all that, after rent, you pay for the apartment. In some countries you will have to live with some long time to do something, so you can invest 5% of your savings in real estate. It'll wait, you'll wait a long time. We hear these demographics here all the time, and the plague hit us here. We live in the 14th century where the plague killed 25% of Europe's population, and that happens, and what are these reasons? It's not such a drastic situation. They're porno pessimists and people will be coming back. You'll see in 10 years what's going to happen, here. Homeless people, in America you have a minimum of 50,000 homeless veterans, more than that you see. Ten or twelve years ago there were 180 grand. In major cities in Canada, 2,000 as seen, 3,000. When... What's he saying? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whoever didn't want to do it has the same... Like me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a second mental set, because it's a question not only of the conflict of civilizations but of mental circuits, here. We still live in the Bermuda Triangle, both legal and economic. To live in this legal, this Bermuda triangle, where everything goes away somehow is proof of this Law which is a total expression that we have not yet come out of the one-party system and that this is still de facto Croslavia. Where there are people's apartments that have been taken away, nationalized, confiscated. It's not covered by this law. Does anyone have that information? Hundreds of millions of acres of agricultural land never returned. The Croatian couldn't buy a tractor until the '60s and that used tractor. Nobody's talking about it because when you say it, a mantra of those juzomboids that say you're dealing with the past, not the future. It's an old Marxist mantra. There's a lot of concern about the future for some friends here because they stole some heavy cash and transferred it to bank accounts outside, and they're great at these apartments downtown where they killed some grandfather, I'll have his dad and they live there. They won't move out, and they have more real estate. I wouldn't move out either, buddy's honor, here. It's human nature, here. We have a state, until we figure it out, we'll have a country where it's going to be this government, it's going to cost the government 10 times as much as it's going to be tax revenue. That means we're in for a country crisis. There are some here that are your expression behind that smoke screen liberal, they don't know are democratic and this, socialists or social Democrats or genetic anarchists, and that's pure talk. Now you've seen what was down there in Greece, here. Who will come to you here? The Chinese will come to you here. As I stand here now in 10 years you will have a Chinatown in the center of Zagreb. You know why? He'll come here and work. The Croats are gonna run out, someone's gonna say it's good out there, but they're gonna come back, here. If you invest today in a hectare and a half of the land, which God gives water, it'll be worth more than 10 years of gold. You'll have wars for water soon, here. Or Croats. You can't change the system if you don't change yourself first and that's that mental heritage of homosoveicus, that's not what you're talking about, here. You could vote for Miksic, Croatia, the Domobran, came from Canada, two companies, and the Croats decided for Jaca Kosor and for Mr Mesic, here. You voted for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77786	Time, time. You'll have to explain after what genetic anarchists mean because somehow I can't interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77787	The next Club of Representatives, or Independent Representatives, will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77788	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, I have been saying for a long time that this legal framework for investment, foreign investment needs to be improved. We're still living in a fragile business environment, I don't see much progress. I asked again what strategic investments have come here for the last 20 years? There's nothing you can see, you have that international organization... Croatia is number 56 for business of 190 countries, it sounds optimistic, and when you compare it with the countries in the environment, Kosovo, Bulgaria, you see that they have progressed because they have implemented simple laws, 3.4 simple laws would solve this deblockation so that people can invest here that they are safe, and not that they will be swept by some prince Drpislav when they sign a contract that defacto can be here, the contracts here appear to be written with a pen and deleted tomorrow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not legal documents, it's a lot of means and a mechanism for cheating people who come here. They're insecure people, I talked to the Croats outside the country today, they're careful that they come here to invest anything until it's fixed. If you can't work, you prescribe simple laws. Here's you for opening companies, you have bankruptcy laws simple, for getting construction permits, New Zealand defacto doesn't have, there's corruption, but minimally, here per capita, and there's still this homojogoslavicus, homocorruption and the main either Tito Party, barbecue buttocks, and he just comes to peel you off, it doesn't have long-term vision, short-term. There are thousands more cases here on the tables that are not solved and most of them are related to property legal matters. I get 10 people a day. An example of one here, I hold in my hand a document from the last century when the Italians were in Zadar where the parcels were divided, a legal document, although it is in Italian, can be seen who owned it. He's coming in '45. What's going on? I don't know. I live in some gray zone, the twilight zone, and now, the same document appears, for the same plots in the Zadar court written in Cyrillic. How is that possible? We live in a parallel universe, and I used to talk about how you have a connection between individuals, crime in grants and local courts. When are we gonna figure this out? Or we'll stay a tomato republic forever. How is it possible that Benkovac doesn't even have land books, how is that possible? What's the consequence? It's the result of librids, it's the destruction of legal documents, land books, catastras, etc. Most of the time after II. svt. War. Some people have been waiting here for 20, 30 years since the start of the new Croatian state, this one, to return their property. That's not gonna happen. You have this impassion and blockade in courts where you have that crime scene at local level again. That means the authority of the Emperor stops at the village fence. It's supposed to form motion vessels, if only that was the state. I'm gonna go down there and get those local sheriffs a good kick. Until it's done, we won't have a state, let alone a rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77789	Thank you very much. And in the name of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77791	I thank my colleagues. Here's just a brief summary, two three points without which, which are permanent tasks, if that doesn't happen, there won't be any of this where state policy, legislative policy is being set up on committees here in the Parliament, and this is just raising hands. First, I've already talked for a whole year in multiple forms about remonting the legal system. But it won't happen if there's no professionalization of personnel in public administration, in ministries and in services. Of these about 50 million GDP dollars in Croatia, how much is it spent on professionalising these personnel? Here's the police. You won't get a professional cop in five and a half thousand. That's why you don't have personnel, no policy personnel are coming in, sorry about the police academy because people aren't gonna come in for that miserable pay, that's not why a pro. That's why you don't have simple laws, if you don't have simple laws and a legal framework for investment, no one will come here. It's a sign that the pension system and the health system have been compromised. Here's the second point is diaspora, the Croatian diaspora. Now you have a new Diaspora Act. It took 30 years for people to come here, cancel those criteria for the third, fourth generation that you need to know the language. How is it possible that Croats, the father comes here, the mother, and the children can't win citizenship? Here's an example of my mother, my mother came back, a little bit about her old, rested soul, she came here in 2010 and brought to the state budget with her pension from Canada about 750,000 kuna, that's one person. Some people got double taxation, here we go, and we're talking about a demographic monster. Some won't, they're sitting here, they don't want those Croats coming back, spreading nebuloses like that. They don't pay taxes. So, according to this criterion, Mario Mandjukic and the entire team of Croatia, football team and menus should not return here, nor should they have the right to vote. It's totally crazy, and these people are paying for the syncurines of those sitting here, including me, and they're also contributing to 4% of GDP. You've had several meetings of an economic expatriate forum, always repeating the same things. And without that legal framework and political stability, no one will come here. That's the assumption that people come back here, that's what they're working on, that's the process one. But that process needs to be accelerated. Here is the third point of the media blockade where all critical information is blocked in Croatia. For example, you won't hear anything in the main stream media about academic and humane illustration. I handed over the frame for the personnel illustration. Here's what happened to the origin of the property? It's covered up in the main stream media while under criticism some councilors are running us media space, people from a deep-seated state, wider disinformation, you have them on social networks. People can't get critical information. Here you have genetic anarchists in Croatia that prevent any structural reform, prevent that illustration from academic and humane, which I was talking about. Here's an example of one of the digitization of land books, and by 2020 it's up to what year, what's it done? Nothing. And that's why today you have this law that passed here where people live from other people's apartments of 70 years. They have other properties, it's the consequence of something, and we've helped... '90s. And that's why no one's asking for money transferred to bank accounts outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until the '90s. and after that, yesterday I was talking about the financial consolidation of the SDP of the SKH where that money from SUBNOR, of the horse, of the other trade unions, etc. What are the unions doing? Why don't they ask those questions? Some people sit here, they were in Scotland, they have two, three apartments in Zagreb. How is that possible while we have that legal conundrum? In the end, the football team, the Russian police officer, got a list of the indisputables from the Libyan deep state they need to shut down there, what they need to be careful about. For example. There they were imprisoned in Rostov by Croatian fans who had a banner with Tina Ujevic and asked them because it was Ante Pavelic. We know where it's coming from here, you haven't seen a hooligan in Russia. Why isn't there any hooligans? Simple laws, laws with teeth and to some level of legal state. Here, some of them went on vacation, some of them aren't the best football team.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77792	Thank you very much. That would conclude the eighth session of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Session closed at 13.25. Please welcome on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77794	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that these free topics are no longer very public, so we are where we are. But I have to tell you about what I've been talking about since I got here, and I'm gonna talk about it as long as the banks are doing illegal business. I'll talk about it 1555 times if necessary, as long as you here who don't understand it finally don't understand what this is about. And today I'm going to talk about the powerful verdict of the High Court of Commerce, the powerful verdict concerning a legal person, a legal person named Vrana d.o.o. It's a company from Biograd. The company took out a loan at Hypo Bank, today this Hypo Bank is called Addico Bank, it has changed its name, but it has not changed its behavior. It continues to behave illegally and continues to drive Croatian citizens, as well as Croatian legal entities. What happened? So, crow d.o.o. the credit agreement with Hypo Bank and in that loan it was agreed that the variable interest rate should be changed in such a way that the fixed part of the interest rate of 2,5 sums with the variable part of the interest rate and that, when summed, that makes it a complete interest rate. And what happened? After initially agreed credit conditions, the variable parameter began to lose its value. So he started falling to zero. And it didn't like the Addico bank today, and sometimes the Hypo Bank. So then that agreed fixed part of the interest rate was voluntarily changing upwards. However, Vrana d.o.o. She followed what the Franak Association was doing, and she realized that the bank's behavior wasn't legal and she filed a lawsuit. She filed a lawsuit at the Trade Court in Zadar. And she received a first-degree verdict, and in February of this year and a second-degree verdict, so it was confirmed rightly that the former Hypo Bank, and the current Addico bank must return Vrani d.o.o. Six hundred and three thousand kn plus a tight interest, totaling about one million kuna. So Hypo Addico has to pay back a million kuna of crows d.o.o. Because she cheated on her at the interest rate. And I'm almost convinced that banks have done such things to all legal persons. They'd set the interest rate correctly and then when they didn't drop the variable parameter, they'd increase the fixed part on their own. Something like that's not allowed. As it was not allowed to negotiate that the interest rate was changed by the decision of the bank and later voluntarily increase that interest rate, it is also not allowed to disregard the contractual provisions. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament do not want to help people solve their problems out of court, so we all have to go to the courts to get our benefits. It's very good for banks because the vast majority of people with physical personality and also legal persons don't even follow what's going on with their credits. And that's why there's 5 to 10 billion kunas of overpaid interest in banks. It is the state's duty to address the problem of overpaid interest on the basis of a powerful collective verdict. It's the duty of the state. The duty of the state is not to help legal persons and corporations who are taking Croatian citizens. It's the duty of the state to help citizens get their rights. There are several other legal persons who have filed their lawsuits and who have received first-degree rulings, so is Rediviva d.o.o. Split received a first-degree ruling that reads at 2.15 million kuna due to overpaid interest and another company whose name I can't mention received 52,000 kn plus tight interest and we are just waiting for that second-degree ruling. I must point out once again that the Croatian Democratic Community promised last year in July that it would solve the problem of illegal interest margins in such a way as to prescribe a legal methodology for determining the initial fixed interest margin and that this promise has not yet been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77795	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77796	Here, it's 13.00, so it's time, according to our Rules of Procedure, in accordance with article. 249a, now it is time to present the views of representatives' clubs on topics they consider important. The period, therefore, from 13.00 to 14,15. Now, please, who's interested in calling, and then we'll see when we have a break. A colleague Alexic, a colleague of Vlaovic, is anyone else answering? If not, then we have two clubs that will now make their views known. It'll take 13 hours and 12 minutes, then we'll take a break by 1400 hours. We wouldn't be going till 14.15 if we moved on with our work. Well, now, please, two clubs that have come forward to plead on the topics they consider relevant today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77797	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. I would talk again about the issues that are important to our debtors, and in the context of the EU court's rulings, because the EU court in recent months has passed two more very important judgments that are extremely important to our debtors who have negotiated loans with the CCF, so judgments C-119/17 and C-126/17 have been passed. The first refers to one Romanian case, the second to one Hungarian case. In fact, what is the brief decision of these judgments? It answers previous questions in two cases. One in Hungary, one in Romania, and it is briefly summed up to say what has been decided in response to the previous questions. First, the national court must determine whether the consumer is alerted and informed of the risks and all relevant information relating to the specific currency clause when determining the unfairness of the currency clause. Secondly, it must determine whether that currency is agreed in good faith. And third, did such a provision lead to a later imbalance in consumer rights and obligations. So I would now, to be perfectly accurate, read exactly what one and the other verdict says in the most important part. Thus, the C-119/17 judgment of the EU Court of Justice says: the provision of a loan contract for which the exchange rate risk is transferred to the debtor and which is not drawn up in a transparent manner, so that the debtor is able to assess the basis of clear and understandable criteria of the economic consequences of the conclusion of the contract, is subject to a national court’s assessment of dishonesty. It is necessary to establish, in spite of the requirement for good faith, whether such a contractual provision creates a significant imbalance between rights and obligations to consumer harm. Accordingly, taking into account all circumstances relating to possible exchange rate changes and risk-specific loans to foreign currency, the national court must determine the first possible non-compliance with the requirement for good faith and the second existence of any significant imbalance in rights and obligations to consumer harm. The second ruling states that the provision on the currency clause must be such that the average consumer who is normally informed and reasonably careful and informed can assess the justification of precise and understandable criteria, the economic consequences arising from the contract, and in particular the total cost of his credit. If, accordingly, the national court determines the unlawful character of the provision of the currency clause, that court may declare the invalidity of the whole contract if it cannot continue to apply after the withdrawal of those provisions. So, in short, the EU court, I think the 10th time stands by the consumer and determines in which case the currency clause is unfairly agreed. And it was unfairly agreed in case the consumer was not informed about the exchange rate risk, and Governor Vujčić himself recently when he was here said, when I said that the banks did not warn us about these risks, he said that banks had to do so and that if they did not, then banks did not do their job well, and the fact is that banks did not warn us about the difference between the CHF currency clause and the euro, and the fundamental difference is that the CNB protects the exchange rate against the exchange rate of the euro and does not protect the kuna rate against the exchange rate of the CHF. These judgments will also have to be taken into account by the High Court of Commerce, which is now re-determining the integrity or unfairness of the currency clause in the credit agreements with the CHF currency clause. I don't know if there's any way to judge it differently, but that the currency clause CHF was negotiated in an unfair way, and that means that it's useless, that it's not worth it. And for the end of this presentation, I would also like to say the words of the President of the EU Court of Justice, so EU Supreme Court President Ken Leonards, who told a Slovenian daily the following statement: banks must not charge the difference between courses that are not reasonable. Consumers have the right to recover overpaid amounts. Therefore, the President of the EU Court of Justice of the Supreme Court of Justice of the EU has made it clear and loud that consumers have the right to regain the difference of course which is not reasonable and that is how I end this exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77798	The last Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77799	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Bureau of Parliament refused patronage over Victory Day for reasons to explain what this was about and it is really embarrassing that something that celebrates the whole world is not organised by state institutions and that they need an explanation. So, for those who don't know and need to be explained, the May 9th anti-fascist coalition made by all six continents has defeated a criminal, Nazi regime that claimed that there are more and lower races on everyone here, and that lower races should either turn them into slaves or physically eliminate them from this world. The defeated regime of a man who despised Christian ethics, especially God’s command, “Do not kill! ” According to Hitler's ethics, the murder has just proved someone's ability to be a member of a multi-race, as he called "Arians". The result of such a dazzling policy was 70 million dead, hundreds of millions wounded, displaced, imprisoned, tortured, and humiliated. By participating in the anti-fascist struggle in which he participated, therefore, the entire civilized world, Croatia has become part of the winning coalition and has acquired a deserved place in the history of the world. And while all countries therefore participate in the May 8th celebration as Victory Day, Croatia alone does not do so, even though we should stand in the front row for our contribution to the anti-fascist fight. We are the only country in Europe that has practically freed itself from occupation, and now we allow Bulgarians or Slovaks who have suffered fewer victims than Croatia to walk in the first row of the day of victory. The parliament continues the shameful practice of the division of the Croatian people, which also supported the SDP, which completely failed to abolish the patronage of the post-World War II victims. HDZs say that when an independent Croatian state was formed in 1990, antifascism was incorporated into the Constitution, while NDH was explicitly rejected. In practice, however, HDZ has never complied with its basic law, which put the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia itself into question, and on the other hand, it has allowed the issue of history to become a cancer-inflicted political life. It is amazing that the topic of World War II in Croatian politics has not been completed even after 8 decades. Under HDZ's patronage, the anti-fascist struggle has been marginalized and demonized. The monuments collapsed, the victims were belittled, the fostered scientific and media historical auditism, and it was only a matter of time before extreme right-wing groups and even political parties were formed in the Republic of Croatia. It is very important to gain courage and to make it clear that antifascism and communism are not the same. Communism is evil and there is no evil about it, but the Red Army's anti-fascist struggle has the whole world seen as positive and there is no doubt about it in either the United States or Germany, in Italy or anywhere else. In Croatia, there will be no social catharsis or end to ideological conflicts so long as HDZ's prime minister and president do not appear at the celebration of the Day of Antifascist Fight on 22 June and the Day of Victory on 8 May. When they finally get the courage for that state act, only then will the rhetoric of labour extremists on all sides, once and for all, lose importance. Only when it is done will history cease to be a social burden and be left to the one to whom it belongs, which are scientists and their audience. Croatia will be able to turn to the future and address what should have been a priority long ago and these are existential issues, economic issues, demographic defence and the establishment of a rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77800	Thank you very much. Here, since we're done a little early than we planned, then we'll take a short break, as we announced at the outset, and then we'll see you in 10 minutes here. At 10:15 so that we can supplement the agenda in accordance with our rules of procedure. It's 10.05.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77801	The next presentation of the position on behalf of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77802	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, since there is no colleague. I'd like to talk to you about some of the information we've received this week and it's about establishing a state of fear, a state of threat, a state of difamation, the ultimate abuse of state institutions and intelligence services, a state at the edge of the establishment of dictatorship. We heard yesterday that the former Deputy Prime Minister, as well as the president of the party that holds power allegedly threatens people who work on their consciences, not only them but also their families and even children. Does a mentally healthy man need a comment on such inappropriate reactions? We've learned that Chief Attorney Dink Cwitan has been threatened with death on two sides and that his family has been under police protection for two years. How come the police and the SOA couldn't find the killers? What can I expect citizens if even top state officials can't be protected? We also heard yesterday that the MP of the parliamentary majority openly threatened the county state's attorney and tried to relieve him directly through the state's chief attorney because he did not act as the advocate concerned had imagined, or dared to investigate him personally. We heard that at a meeting of his party's presidency, the Prime Minister threatened to throw his own members off the list, including the party. It is said that in four eyes he threatened the presidents of the county branch if they would not support ratification of the Istanbul Convention. We're testifying to a never-seen charge with parliamentary deputies who disagree with the head of their party. At least three HDZ deputies were stolen compromising photos from their cell phones and are now differentiated by portals as false believers. I have no doubt that HDZ representatives are mostly formal believers, but I'm interested in who and whose instructions hack the phone numbers of the MPs. This kind of elimination from public life did not even serve UDBA, and it turns out that secret services have lost control and become a means of mob pressure in the service of a few individuals. I remind you of the statement by HDZ political secretary Stier, that the top of the HDZ is blackmailing priests with all kinds of filth. Among other things, Prime Minister Plenkovic, last year here in the Parliament, has publicly threatened me and the Living Wall to destroy us, and since no one has responded then, we should not be surprised that other people, too, are the ones who brought him to power. I call on the public to react, to stop the illegal listening and hacking of citizens, their monitoring, to strongly condemn those who are sending threats and destroying the democratic system by introducing totalitarian methods that would probably not be ashamed of the Generalisssimus Stalin himself. It is quite clear that Croatia is crying out for early elections because it is the only way that black smoke has occurred in this High House of Fair Winds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77803	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77804	Next, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the Honorable representative Goran Aleksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77805	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is the day of the Franak Association. On this day 3 years ago, 20,000 people damaged by the illegal operations of Croatian banks walked peacefully, dignifiedly from the square of the Republic of France, across Ilica to the square of Ban Jelačić, to the CNB and here to Mark's square. We took the centre of Zagreb, we didn't make any incidents, we didn't wave flags, we didn't play patriots, we didn't shout huge passwords, we just spoke against the illegal business of Croatian banks. And we did, after that, a conversion of CHF credit was made. We've actually helped the authorities pass the law, because in order to pass some law, they have to see that people are asking her to. I must say, to organize such a protest is not a simple thing. Volunteers of the Franak Association prepared the protest months before that, lit candles in front of Croatian banks, on behalf of all those who suffered from these same Croatian banks, "Croatian", because they are all owned by foreign banks. I have to remember those moments when the Franak Association just started to exist, it was 2011, it started with a few people, it started at forums, on social networks, on Facebook. At first they laughed at us, which this sect wants, they said we were sect, and you see, we managed to get half the trial, we're waiting for the High Commercial Court to make a final decision on the CHF currency clause. So we managed a lot of things that no one believed in from people who looked at us from the side, when we started our own business called stopping banks in their illegal business. One of the crown activities of the Franak Association was also the last Friday of the 24th year, when we managed to gather the legal elite at the Franak Conference on the case-law and business of Croatian banks. So on Friday, there was a conference at the Dubrovnik Hotel, where the Supreme Court Judge, Davor Kontrec, the Constitutional Court Judge, Goran Selanec, the law professor Tamara Chapeta from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, a professor from the Faculty of Law from Osijek, Mato Palić and Zvonimir Jelinić and lawyer Srdjan Kalibot, who has long been working with the Franak Association in the fight against Croatian banks, but it is not really a fight against banks, but rather a fight against their illegal business. I must quote some words from these top legal experts who participated in the conference on Friday, so Professor Tamara Chapeta said she was extremely grateful to the Franak Association, because Franak brought the first in Croatia the EU court bang to Croatian courts. She said she is extremely grateful that her department can now speak out of this aspect of EU law. The Constitutional Court judge, Goran Selanec, also said that at the Franak Association, a legal force, acting in the Croatian legal order, helped the Constitutional Court to improve its case law. And that this case-law that the Constitutional Court has now established on the basis of exactly the request of the Franak Association will assist in the following processes, which have nothing to do with the CHF currency clause. The Supreme Court judge, Damir Kontrec, who is president of the Supreme Court's civil suit, has pledged to decide in the coming weeks that the Supreme Court will decide on the limitation of claims that are still questionable in lower courts. It is about claims on the basis of requirements, individual claims of debtors, for the return of payments of interest. Therefore, the Supreme Court will also respect new practice, collective practice, make a decision on whether there is an outdated claim or no outdated claim on the basis of individual requests for pre-paid interest. I must say, that just yesterday I was informed that at the County Court in Zagreb, another powerful verdict was passed, another debtor got all the amounts of interest paid from 2007 to today. Unfortunately, the illegal business of banks continues, interest margins are illegal and are illegal thanks to the inaction of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the inaction of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I expect all of us to change our behavior in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77806	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77807	Since none of the club representatives signed up for the club's position, and we have someone. I would ask you to sign up in time, but here you are, Mr. Ivan Willibor Sincic. Bringing out the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77808	Can we? Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. [[Intruding Brkić: Here you go, Mr. Sincic.]] As you know in the City Assembly of Zagreb today, the theme of the waste management plan is on the agenda. The waste management plan is one of the episodes in a long series of malversions and legal violence done by the mayor Bandic and is actually a reflection of his ability or inability to get rid of the garbage in Zagreb rather than being the European waste capital. In the last 20 years, he has failed and the entire Republic has failed. Why is that? Well, we don't have a lot of court rulings, but we do have a few charges. Let's say the one against Mr. Mladne was actually late for exactly one day off the deadline to raise himself and the gentleman, please, and we know that Mr. Pripuz is a close friend with Mr. Bandic. I'm going to say from here that it's one waste of interest group, not to tell the mob, but let's get on with it. Chronology begins in 2014 when the city council of the City of Zagreb changed the spatial plan of the City of Zagreb. A hundred kilometres of water protection area in Brezovica was then abolished and, among other things, the water protection area in Ivanja Reka was reduced. As an argument of why the water protection area in Ivanja Rivera is reduced, the fact is stated by the elaborat of the Faculty of Mining, which is defined, however, in this laboratory they are called upon, is not mentioned at all in any of the words of Ivanja Reka, this is your first example of legal violence. In addition, this spatial plan envisions central waste management in Resnik, which is likely to give up because it is an outdated technology and provides for a recycling yard in the Sub-Nearly. Although it has been announced to be rehabilitated by the country, a permit is issued in the same year 2014. This is your second example of legal violence. 2016, however, is now under discussion about changes to the general urban plan of the City of Zagreb. We also witness here in several cases of legal violence, so let's say that the urban plan must not build or expand waste management centres, or landfills. That doesn't mean anything to Mr. Bandic. It's also the law that says that... can't change the spatial plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the fourth example of legal violence. That doesn't mean anything to Mr. Bandic either. And it all seems that we will receive sentences from the EU because we haven't dealt with the problem of waste disposal in the Republic of Croatia in time, there are many examples, and I have often cited them here from Karepovac, Piškornica, Marinščina, Orlovac, from Jakushec, mountains of garbage, some have been recovered, some are not, as professionally or as not testifying to some of the charges and cases of malfeasance. But what's tragic here is that the profession that clearly said no in the stands and in the public debates and in the labs is simply trampled, ignored, not Bandic's friends, they know best. Today, Mr. Bandic says he will consult with God. I read that he meant Mr. Pripuz here, he must have consulted him well. But, well, maybe Mr. Bandic isn't a legalist, but his Remetinec isn't that far away, but why doesn't he respect the voice of the citizens? And the citizens clearly told him, especially the citizens who live there, no, we don't want to manage the waste, we don't do it the right way, what you're proposing is obsolete, it's no longer normal, the world has gone on. Neither the vote of Croatian citizens nor those who gathered today in front of the city council here in Cirilometodska meant nothing to him. It is neither social nor democratic, although Mr Bandic presents himself as a Social Democrats. There is also environmental pollution, safety and drinking water threatened, and we see the same in the media a number of wild waste dumps, making municipal waste, which I call on citizens to resist, to provide resistance and such decisions and such policies, and we have reported to the High Administrative Court all these examples of legal settlements and violations of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77809	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77810	Good morning, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. Before we move to today's agenda, we have a free debate, so I'd like to ask you to come forward. A colleague named Sincic from Living Wall and SNAGA, a colleague of Glasnovic, has already reported. You're the one who shows up as an independent, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77811	Yes, I'm reporting as an independent representative on the subject of the Croatian homeless.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77812	Okay. My colleague Hrg, 4. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then we can begin the debate. The first one's a colleague, Sincic, and with the agenda, we'll start at 10 o'clock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77813	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I took a break to talk about a floating LNG terminal. As we know, I called the project an economic, technological, technical and ecological disaster about a month ago for this speaker. Unfortunately, we were right. Namely, when he finished the final round of the competition and the competition was several times delayed, i.e. Extended to make as many interested people as possible, however, this did not help. All one company reported, the INA and only 4% of long-term gas capacity was leased. What does that show? It shows that there is simply no money, no economic account in a floating LNG terminal in the Omistry. But in this apartment, I would like to focus on one other thing, which is a violation of democratic principles. That is what I would say is a political settlement, a procedural settlement, non-transparency, not a democracy conducted by the Ministry of Economy, environmental protection, and also a prime minister personally to the people of Omis and the Primorje-Gorski County. So I'd like to read the letter that we've all received, I believe it's come to every MP, by Chief Omisaj, Omisalj municipality. Here's a few bits, here's a few bits. The letter was addressed to the President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Prime Minister, I address you for the meeting of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and your answer to the question of the distinguished representative of Hasanbegovic about the project of floating LNG in Omislje, in which you are before the present parliamentary representatives and the media, therefore also told the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the Government is also conducting dialogue with the leaders in Omislje. So Mr Plenkovic said then that the government is also conducting dialogue with the leaders in Omislje. Take care now, on 12 October 2017, the Commissioner sent a letter addressed directly to Mr Plenković and to Deputy Prime Minister Dalić where she is looking and recommended for talks on LNG terminal. Until today, and this is April 13, I have not received an answer to this letter, nor have I attended one conversation with the government's legal representatives, which is the president or vice president, nor has anyone from any institution involved in the implementation of the LNG terminal project sought or held a conversation with me as a representative of the Government, or on behalf of the Government. As for the terminal itself, the chief said she had two brief opportunities to talk to Mr. Coric about it, but listen to what they discussed. I spoke with Mr. Coric on 23 October 2017, and the discussion was a request from the minister to refrain from coming to the media with a negative attitude of the Omisalj municipality on the project of a floating LNG terminal. So the minister asked the chief who represents the local population to calm down a little, not to put out exactly what the people there think. The second time, and last time, she spoke with Mr. Coric on November 7th of the same year, so after about 2 weeks and the taste of the talks was the amount of cash compensation offered to the municipality of Omisalj, subject to the Minister's request that I refrain from attending the media with a negative attitude of the Omisalj municipality on the same project. So it's the same thing again. Not only does the government ignore the will of the people of Omis in the Primorje-Gorski County and violate the spatial plan, the Constitution, that now a special law is violently seeking to install something that is unacceptable. Not only is the profession against such a project, that it is poorly documented, that there are parascient data inside, but also the prime minister is actually cheating on the public. So he's lying, he's saying he's consulting Omisalj municipality and ignoring the questions from the chief. And when some contact happens, they're short-circuited, and what happens then? The minister is actually trying to bribe, or silence the democratic voice of the citizens of Omisalj municipality. Here's the obvious way this government refers not only to the people of Omis but to all of Croatia, underestimatingly, you are irrelevant there, I have, I can do what I want, I have the media, I have the power, I have this majority, I have the conclusion and what you think is just the procedure of order for me. Here, well, against this kind of violence and against this kind of procedure, I took another break on the floating LNG terminal, there will be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77814	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77815	On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77816	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The government has so far claimed that lex-Agrocor protects jobs, that it will reach a deal among the believers, and that the state will not suffer any damage. As we can see, Ante Ramljak and Fabris Perusko have proved completely unable to resolve the issue of Agrokor, but the main responsibility certainly lies with those who have asked them, namely the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Also recently on the parliamentary committees, Vice-President Martina Dalic claimed that she triumphed, and on 10 April, less than a month ago, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Commissioner Perusko happily announced that a settlement in the main lines was reached and that the extension of the lex-Agrokora would be formally signed. Today we know it's not like that. That by who knows which times they've lied to us and that the whole process of restructuring and settlements are actually going illegally what we've been claiming in the Living Wall since day one. First of all, there are 2300 jobs lost in Agrokor in 2017 alone, and the question is what happens in 2018. The government came up with an unreal plan that imagined that through the compromised and conflict of interest of the burdened Sanhedrin Council, they would be able to crush Agrokor into smaller companies and hand it over to large believers without greater resistance. However, due to the failure to conduct a bankruptcy procedure, suppliers, private creditors and minority shareholders will not receive anything in the settlement. Since it's hundreds of millions of kunas, it's certainly a lawsuit against the state. Simply one of the 5700 believers will react, and not all people are obedient marionettes Martina Dalic and Fabriska Peruška, nor are they afraid of their blooming political background. The costs of the lawsuit will have to be paid by Croatian taxpayers instead of Agrokor, and it is billions of kunas. In addition, the question is how many pension societies managed by the second pillar have been lost. In public, there are hundreds of millions of kunas, but this data is undoubtedly false because all serious analyses show that it is at least half a billion kuna. The state also suffers great damage. There are hundreds of millions of kuna debts to the budget and ministries and to all banks and companies in the government portfolio. These debts amount to a minimum of one billion and 300 million kuna, and there are no firm guarantees that they will be returned. How will HPB, HBOR, Croatia Bank, Adriatic Bank, CERP, Agricultural Land Agency, the Energy Efficiency Fund are the issues the public expects to answer, but does not get them. Last week, a decision by the High Court of Commerce, which accepted the appeal of 10 creditors, questioned by the announced deal that Prime Minister Fabris Peru has persistently been trying to impose by coercion and blackmail. It is clear that the religious council has been elected by the interim commissioner illegally. It turned out to be a shamelessly high fee so-called. Councilors against the law, and even if they were legal if no settlements were made on 10 July, the question to which 500 million kunas were spent is raised and more importantly on whose order and approval. Today, it is almost certain that the deals in Agrokor will not be made until July 10th, and that Lex Agrokor is the most ordinary kitten of Andrej Plenkovic and Martina Dalic, all for the purpose of achieving particular rather than general interests. We wanted to buy time for naked maintenance in power, not in the interest of the economy and citizens. This July 10th High House will have two possibilities at the end, very soon. First, to call new parliamentary elections, second to write lex Agrokor 2, hopefully this time we'll know at least who his authors are. The first solution would be desirable and only right, but knowing the character of Andrej Plenkovic, we will likely testify to another solution that will push Croatia another step closer to the new recession that has come unwittingly, not only because of the Lex Agrokor but also because of the general incompetence of the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77817	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77818	And now we'll welcome, first of all, the students of Jura Dalmatinca elementary school from Pag, who look at us from above... And we're going to take a stand on behalf of the club. [[Applause.]] On behalf of the Living Wall's Club, the Honored Representative, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77819	Thank you Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I took this break to talk about the LNG terminal for the third time, i.e., as it is known against the floating LNG terminal in Omislje. In the last stop, I argued, that despite the claims made in this House, the gentleman's diameter, that he was talking to the representatives of the Imagine, that it was not working, I read here parts from the letter of the Commissioner, which clearly claims that on her request to talk, it was never answered, and in two very short, very short encounters directly with Minister Coric, there was actually no extra conversation, but in fact an attempt to disrupt and silence the voice of the people of Omis, who has his own position, which we know against the LNG terminal of the floating, because it is contrary to the spatial plan and all that is already known to us. But I'm here today for another thing. According to the 2017 study, a floating LNG terminal is planned, but very little is known in public, or almost nothing is known to exist another study, a 2016 study, or a year earlier than the one we all talk about. That study I have here, it's not too big, it's not too extensive, it's beautifully written, there's a series and expert reviews and there's maps and maps and pictures and tables, it's quite well done. This kind of documentation, or its production, was paid by the EU, we know, among other things, that part of those appropriations is approved for the documentation. But what's controversial, why didn't it go public is that this study doesn't give priority to a floating LNG terminal that is now being forced at all costs. From Mr. Trump and... to our government, via Minister Dalic, rather than to transfer it to the land LNG terminal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This study was put almost in the trash, ordered a new one, because they obviously did not like some of the interests of this study with these conclusions. Well, I'll be free here to read a few lines from that study. So the study is called the macroeconomic effects of the natural gas incinerated terminal on the island of Krk. In principle, it compares two terminals, floating with the land ones. So let's say on page 15 stands, the construction of the FSR terminal, the positive economic effects will be significantly less than if it's a terminal on land. Furthermore, on page 84, the estimated value of regulated income is shown, for the land terminal, the value ranges between 45m and 65m euros per year and for the FSR, which means floating was more than 80m euros per year. Finally, as a result, the land terminal will be able to have a lower tariff for its service and will be more financially competitive, so that is also a comparison of costs in one of these tables. We move on, we move on, so on page 106 stands like this, the narrow throat of realisation is the transit route of the Rogatec gas and the transit route of Hungary whose dynamics is therefore not part of the construction of the terminal. This is an additional argument why acceleration... terminal, seemingly fast-track solution like FSR is not meaningful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what we're saying is that it's going to take it until 2023 to make gas pipelines that would be drained from the Omis. So it doesn't make sense right now to create a terminal that's going to cost five years. Below, the estimated local and domestic performers could participate in total works on the terminal with around EUR 209 million and for the mainland terminal with EUR 71 million if... terminal. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words three times as many jobs, the value of jobs would be given to domestic performers if it were a land terminal compared to a floating terminal. And so these are just some of the advantages of the land terminal compared to the floating terminal. And if our government is doing what we should do, like any government, according to science, in good practice, then why is this study of Minister Coric hiding? Why is she hiding from the public, why has it barely come to her? No, you didn't like her, you ordered someone else, just a year after she had the opposite conclusions, and on the same input, on the same input. Obviously, it's a political study, obviously you don't judge by science, by practice, but by floating LNG, so the whole project in this form that is now being propagated, pushes a political decision, not a decision, or a recommendation of the profession, and I believe that every day it will show more and more and prove, that it will end up as Cetina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77820	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77821	Now it is up to the esteemed colleague Sincic on behalf of the Advocacy Wall and SNAGE Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77822	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrades and colleagues, tomorrow is the 9th of May, the day of Europe, the day they were long ago 1945. The Russian forces from the east, they could have been West American, won Nazi Berlin. But I'm not here to talk about history, I'm here to talk about the future first. When you go into a project, any project, then after a while you have to review what you've done, have you reached your goals, your costs, your benefits. So I would like to invite all of us from this place as a society and state and as members, representatives, if you want employees of the Croatian Parliament, we ask the Croatian roof institutions what are the benefits, and what are the damages of Croatian EU membership in the last 5 years? Here's a 1.7. It's going to be five years of our membership. So far, we have not had a fair public debate, nor a fair analysis of our relationship, unfortunately it was all about some kind of propaganda, some sort of avoidance of responsibility, and I want to raise democratic standards in Croatia and ask ourselves purely logically and rationally what we have received, what we have lost, or where in 5 years we will be with gain and loss. Well, let's take it slow in a row. As for direct damages and benefits, we should say that we have a huge down payment and payment from the European budget in the last 3 years, meaning '15, '16, and '17, we have been paid 743 million euros from Europe, or about 5 and a half billion kuna, at the same time we paid 1' billion kuna. There are, of course, indirect damages and benefits that cannot always be directly and accurately measured by money, but they exist. Here these days, we also heard from the President of the Parliament information that would not have been built by the Pelješki bridge without the EU, i.e. if it hadn't entered the EU, so I remind you, Mr. Jandrokovic, that in your time you were the foreign minister during Sanader, that was one 4.5 of the government, then the Pelješki bridge was built and opened several times, just because ZERP is not applied to EU members, it is estimated that some 300 million euros, i.e. some over 2 billion kuna, annually, loses Croatia only to this fisheries. So in the last 10 years of each year, we've given the Peljeski Bridge to Italian fishermen. There are, of course, other indirect damages, one of them being '94. We've been in line with the mastite contract, which is why we've created our monetary policy, so we've created a central bank exchange office and we have 20 years of high interest rates and all of what the banks are doing. It's all an indirect cost. The damage to sanctions should also be cited, especially Russia and then some other countries that are not on the Washington and Brussels lines, e.g. Iran. We had some shipbuilding business with Iran that we had to give up on because of such a policy. It should also be said that intransparency and indemnity exist today, I will remind you in Europe of the meeting of the European Council, Mr Plenkovic was present. One of the topics was Brexit. The finance commissioner, Mr. Etinger, said that some 15 pounds per capita after the UK exit should be paid additionally, means 510 million more in the EU account for the current 3 and a half billion. If we take into account that the budget has been voted recently for the next 7 years where less funds are provided for, we are in the situation that our costs will grow, and that our potential revenues will drop, and what is the worst that Mr Plenkovic has been at that meeting in the morning, when, in the first news, Mr Plenkovic says that, we will increase the funds for Europe without asking the Croatian public, without asking this Parliament here, however, the Parliament said something, voted, debated that Europe. Without even asking his government, he couldn't because she was in Croatia, without having even done an analysis, some calculation that he was pulling some numbers, he didn't, because he couldn't do it in an hour. So it was a purely political decision, not a cost of benefit, not economic, not any other, but a purely political decision, I think it's good, I like politically, so that's why we're going that way. I condemn this and such policy and call once again on this place all of us as a society and a state and all of the institutions to review for the fifth year of EU membership what we have received, what we have lost. Of course, the indirect cost of EU membership includes certainly every resident who leaves, whom we have trained and who will work in another country. So let's go to the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77823	Mr. Ivan Willibor Sincic in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77824	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Every day in Croatia, corruption is growing, growing on the other side of Mark's square in Croatia's government, it is growing on the other side of the Croatian Parliament because it is evident that the ruling majority every day, despite everything that is happening, continues to support this corrupt and incompetent government. The e-mails that came out clearly indicate that it's a conflict of interest, that it's about abuse of privileged information, abuse of position. I even called what was happening to something that bordered on high treason or high treason. It is evident that a narrow group of people, with the edge of private interests, business and politics, have divided a 500 million kuna business by itself. At the center of the scandal are four companies, it's the AlixPartners... is the alternator of the company Branislav Bricelj and Mark Delić, it is of course Texo management of Matic and Ramljak and for the end of the Intercapital of Tonci Korunić and his co-founder from 2011. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Daniel Nevidal. It is incredibly simple, and beware that there was no time to go through normal democratic procedure, that everything was done publicly, that it was known who wrote the law so that the law was passed, that there was no time, and we know from the beginning of February, that all this was done in February and communication was common. Until the other day we thought it was the beginning of March, now it's the beginning of February, which we'll find out in what day, that it's been working since 2016 on this whole thing, amazing. So there was time to make a normal democratic procedure, it wasn't done because it wanted to hide first who was part of all of this interesting criminal organization that obviously had no honorable intentions. It's amazing that in the first stage there was a lawmaking, there was a law-making, except for the people mentioned there were also Mr. Boris Šavoric's lawyer, in the second phase, the same group selected advisers for Agrokor, which is Mr.... and his company Alix, and then in phase three, the same one, Alix, gives jobs to the same ones from the first phase that the law and the law that they passed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A conflict of interest that just screams to the sky. The costs that were made, let's just say the alter has earned some 13 million kunas, for Texo we know he's got some same 12 million kunas and Ramljak himself got over the salary of the same generous amount. As far as the third Intercapital firm is concerned, it also speaks of some 13 million kunas. However, what is interesting here, and what has been reported to us some time ago, is the case of the lawyer's office Šavoric. It is questionable and here I call on the lawyer's chamber from this place whether the lawyer's office should have worked in such a group for the government de facto and for Minister Dalic and for private interests without reporting these activities to the lawyer's chamber. Because whenever you do any contract with a law firm, it all has to be signed up to the bar. On the other hand, Agrokor reportedly paid a total of 2 million kuna to that law firm not in a glass under the table but in invoices at the time. I call the tax administration, I call the bar and all those in charge of investigating such allegations. I also call on the Croatian public to rebel, not to let this go, not to let this scandal pass, not to let this become a standard of conduct. I am looking not only for Minister Dalic's shift, because it is evident that Mr Plenkovic was also familiar with everything, that Mr Zdravko Maric also had to be familiar with everything and who knows who else does not, from the government, what of the ministers, which of the state secretaries. It is also clear now why there has been a cease-fire of the commission, an investigative board for Agrokor, it is also clear why it has been a matter of actually pulling out all teeth, as someone has told the Committee of Conflict of Interest and everything else that has happened since the overdoing, i.e. since the entry of the CNS into power. Also another scandalous thing that is happening, here by emergency procedure comes soon lex LNG, the law totally anti-constitutional law that one job in which no one will invest, we saw, almost no one came forward except the INA would have to impose on Croatian citizens and the public and the people of Omis. Why? Because it's someone's narrow particular interest. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. It's harmful, it's stupid, it's criminal. It's time for the government to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77825	Time, Mr. Son. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77826	We move on to a position on behalf of the club, based on art. 249. And the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The first to present a position on behalf of the club has been reported by colleagues from the Living Wall and the SNAGA, I invite a respected colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, to give us the club's position, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77827	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Although the Rules of Procedure give me five minutes I don't believe I'll use them all. My theme today is Agrokor, or the last wave of e-mails released hours ago. I won't repeat the whole history, we discussed it a good part of the day yesterday, if not all day. The latest wave of e-mails clearly reveals that Mr. Andrej Plenkovic met with a group of Borg on 6.3 and 23.3. Therefore, not only did he know that the group was working and what was happening but he also participated in the work, and he took part in a way that he called them at meetings, that he participated in meetings, and who knows what was done there, and we don't know. The entire prime minister knew about the processes, he lied in a sneaky lie for a year that he didn't know who was writing the law, that it was none of his business. He allowed the extraction of 580 million kunas from Agrokor, allowed conflict of interest, protected the Borg group, tried to conceal everything and cover it up. We also asked, and that allows us to decide by the Constitutional Court that on these days when meetings were delivered records of entry-exits into the government building to contribute and add to confirm the search for truth in this case. But what's worse, what's worse is that Mr. Plenkovic thought it was normal for someone to work, first for free for the government, to write the law, and then to charge from Agrokor from a private company. First he works for the government, and not the ministry, but it's a secret group for the government, and then they're going to give someone there these jobs. So everything was clearly agreed, we're talking about a joint criminal enterprise, and Mr. Maric, the finance minister, is here. And the more I say the longer I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to stop embarrassing both the government as an institution and the Parliament and Croatia and to go through Martina Dalic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77828	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77829	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the session. Today we start with a free speech at 9.30, I'll read who's registered by now, so if anyone else wants to come forward, I'd be begging him. So we start with a debate of the Living Wall and the SNAGA-respected colleague of Bunjec, second is GLAS and HSU Goran Beus Richembergh, third is Independent for Croatian counterpart Zeljko Glasnović. Now we have two independent MPs, Mrsic's first answer to what the secretary of the plenary session told me, the second Zekanovic so that one of you has to give up, the priority will be the one who answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77830	I agree... Last week, however, by the mistake of Mr. Bukarica, not on purpose, we were not allowed to, as independent representatives or advocates who are not at the club because I am in the party HRAST to speak, so I would ask the President of the Parliament to allow me this time what was denied to me last week, and I was right. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] It was a mistake, but this time you have a chance to correct a mistake. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77831	Yes, that colleague Orepic had given up and then no one spoke for the independents, so we're going to make an exception now, but not today, but tomorrow. A colleague of the SDP, Dobrovic, from the Most Independent Lists, and on behalf of HDZ, we have a colleague, Boric. Is anyone else picking up? He's a colleague of the House. That's it, then we'll start the debate. The first one's next, dear fellow Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77832	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to warn you of a long-standing problem in the field of human rights and the rights of children everyone knows about, and no one has responded until today. Namely, Roma Bajaš's parents in Međimurje are mass selling girls and girls for so-called. They get married even though it's usually rare to have a relationship. The model is marrying you so that parents, and often older brothers, girls sell as soon as they're 15 years old, and there are cases of that happening before. The average price for which Roma women are sold is around 15,000 kuna. As a result, there are many minors in Međimurje, and there are even cases that some Roma women were born at the age of 12 or 13 when they were students of the 5th and 6th grade of primary school. Every Roma woman who's been sold, and especially the one who's given birth, has to stop schooling. Some of them already in their early 20 ’ s have three, four children who have nothing to worry about because they are uneducated and unemployed. As a rule, such mothers become social cases, as well as their children without being able to break the vicious cycle of poverty and social exclusion. It is sad to know that sometimes alleged females are over ten years older than girls who buy, and for some reason it is known to happen that they are brought home because they are allegedly unhappy with them, so parents sell them again, better say reselling. How can we tolerate or do not want to know about this problem in 2018? How is it possible that any person cannot choose his own partner, that alleged marriages are made by a financial arrangement, literally by buying, rather than being based on what is normal and natural, which is free choice and love. More and more cases of resistance are girls and girls running away from home and trying to find protection in homes and foster families. Some of them declare that they never want to meet their family again, and not a single Roma that shows accordingly what kind of despair has been brought upon them and what injustice has been done to them. Gentlemen, the Roma girls need our support. For all these reasons, I call on all institutions, in particular the Ministry of Justice and Police, the Ministry of Education and Social Affairs, all media and civil society associations, political parties and parliamentary representatives to join the campaign to raise awareness of this problem and to involve Roma women in the world of high levels of civilization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77833	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77834	We are now starting with a statement on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the first application by Goran Aleksic Lives Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77835	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to talk about little craftsmen and their problems with the state. Let's remember in the 1990s when the independence of the Republic of Croatia was driven, we talked about how there would be a lot of small entrepreneurs, how we would be Switzerland, how we would help these people to become privates, small privates, that there would be a lot of small businesses and people would make money and that would benefit the countries and we would all benefit from that. But what happens later? It happens that a small entrepreneur is being trampled by the state in some way. What's going on now, this year, but also in previous years? It's about tax returns. Small entrepreneurs have not yet been reimbursed from last year, first of all, because tax return referents cannot use an application that will only be possible from 1 June 2018. At the same time, small entrepreneurs are expected to pay all their obligations, all their debts, taxes, so they are asked to pay their own, and on the other hand the state does not return what it has to pay back. In addition, the state shows that it has surpluses, and one part of that surplus is just an unreimbursed tax, an overpaid tax that is not returned is shown as a surplus. So it's false information coming from the Ministry of Finance. That surplus isn't what it looks like. Small craftsmen are often on the verge of existence. And then when the state doesn't charge its tax that it's due, it sends a solution to the performance, and these little craftsmen are done, if they don't have the money to pay, they go and tighten interest and, at a time when it happens year after year, a part of it goes down and they have to close their trades. Part of them goes to those blocked citizens. Why can't we solve the problem in a way that there's no charge of tax debts until there's a full tax refund for the previous year? Well, that shouldn't be a problem at all. And then it gets beaten up and the problem solved. There are people who simply cannot survive because of such a state torture. So I pray and advocate that we find a way that, under the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is perfectly clear, we achieve a breakthrough of debt for small craftsmen, for small entrepreneurs, and that the taxes that have come before the state's billing of overpaid taxes are not charged, in this way we will probably save many entrepreneurs who, due to such a way of working the state over time, have to close their trades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77836	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77837	It is the third turn of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club and the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77838	Dear ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we witnessed unremembered events in Italy. That's where President Matarella actually took the coup, in what way? He refused to actually give a mandate to the government and its ministers who have the support of the parliamentary majority. So the voters went to the polls, they chose certain parties, these parties have a majority. I ask Mr. Bukarica, if she can speak more quietly behind me, because it's very hard for me to speak, thank you for always teaching me that I can't talk when someone else talks and then if I did, then I'd be warned. I've always tried to be undetectable, and you're behind my back and you're talking about who's wriggled. Thank you. So in Italy, there is a constitutional crisis, the president has decided to disband parliament, although there is a parliamentary majority, so it is not about the situation where the parliamentary majority does not exist, but is not responsible for it by the minister who is against the euro and who wants to return the Italian lira. And the essence of why the populists came to power in Italy is that they told people, look, you see that the euro has brought down your standard of living, that prices have gone up. We are against the euro, we are for the lira and voters have said we are the same for the lira we do not want the euro. And then with the goal of saving the failed European project, President Matarella refused to give the term of Minister of Economy to it, I would call it a non-eurosceptic, but would call it a Eurorealist and have decided to appoint him prime minister of an IMF man who was not in the elections, has no political legitimacy, means there is neither support in the people nor in their legislative body of parliament. And it's a very, very dangerous precedent that actually threatens to suspend democracy. Namely, I was just reading yesterday there was a Bulgarian, he was, God damn it as he was called, mostly this Bulgarian wrote a book, it's called a book against fascism and war, yes, Georgi Dimitrov was called exactly and he explained that in capitalism this uncontrollable capital is the one that governments, or that politicians who are in parliament are representatives of capital, not representatives of citizens and that they are extended hands of these financial elites and that they rule the financial elite state through these extended arms, and not the people by the choice of their representatives. However, Georgi Dimitrov points to one worrying phenomenon, he says that ultimately, when the system is hijacked every control that capital will come to suspension democracy, abolished parliaments, the possibility of citizens choosing their representatives, already capital will directly set up their people to rule because democracy or national will will will come sooner or later in conflict with the interests of the financial elite. Why? So because the peoples of Europe are waking up, the peoples of Europe realize that the existing political parties are actually serving the euro of some bureaucratic system, serving the IMF, the World Bank, NATO, Brussels, Washington, that they are actually least serving the citizens of the countries that chose them. And then President Matarella in Italy decided as I explained to suspend democracy,...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77839	Comrade Pernar just a little bit, Comrade Pernar, please. My colleague Stazić, colleague Bernardić, I am asking you to go outside and talk that way somewhere else, not in the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77840	Anyway, I want to tell you that there is no democracy in the EU, that in the EU it is possible for most of the parliamentary who is reluctant to Brussels to simply be given a mandate to form a government, that means that we live in a period of post-democracy, at a time of neoliberal dictatorship, at a time when what the World Bank thinks is more important, what Brussels thinks, what some officials think there than the people think. We hope the same will not happen in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77841	We're going to a third debate. On behalf of the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77842	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. What I'm going to talk about, I'm going to talk about court practice. In the past month, court practice has increased by several very important rulings in favour of debtors damaged by the illegal operations of Croatian banks. So let's start from the beginning. The first important verdict was reached at the County Court in Zagreb, so legally, the County Court in Zagreb found that the judgment of the Municipal Court was correct, and the judgment of the Municipal Court was so unfair after the conversion of the Swiss loan. The Bank complained, demanded that such a ruling be amended, that the conversion had disappeared legal interest, but the court took the view that the conversion was not a reason for the elimination of legal interest in determining the integrity of the unfair contractual provisions. Another similar verdict was in Zadar in a joint process where five prosecutors sued the Zagreb Bank, where the Municipal Court ruled that these prosecutors had no right to return over-payments of interest, but the Zadar County Court found that the conversion was no reason not to determine whether they had the right or not to have the prosecutor's right to overpaid interest. So the municipal court in Zagreb, which passed the verdict against the prosecutor, will have to repeat the trial, the Zadar Court, the County Court, so the high court sided with the debtors and said that the artisan must be carried out. A third similar verdict took place in Rijeka. The Rijeka County Court also found that the conversion is not a reason not to establish the integrity of the unfair contractual provisions and that after that it must be determined whether the prosecutor has the right to repay the amounts of interest paid. Meanwhile, in Slovenia, the Supreme Court abolished both a first-degree and a second-degree verdict in a private court process in which the prosecutor lost the case against the bank in which the first-degree and second-degree court found that the CCF currency clause was agreed under the law and that there was no reason why such a currency clause was declared unfair and worthless. However, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the known judgment of the EU Court of Justice C... 186/16 found that the first-degree and second-degree court misjudged the situation, returned to the first degree to re-establish the unfairness of the currency clause and simply the process is now irrevocable and the CHF currency clause has already been legally established several times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And based on this audit at the Supreme Court in Slovenia, it will again be found unfair in this private process. In addition, in the last week two judgments have been reached on the basis of which interest payments must be paid to the debtors and the interestingness in those judgments is that the amount that has been settled and sentenced in CHF. So there is an unfair interest rate sought and that what has been overpaid to the debtor but at CHF amounts converted into kunas on the day of payment. The courts also found, therefore, the county courts and that court in Zagreb and the court in Zadar found that the amount of interest paid must be returned at CHF amounts at the rate which will be valid on the day of payment of that overpaid amount. What is interesting with one of these judgments is the fact that it is the verdict that Nicole Kwiatkowski lost in the first degree in a way that she was entitled to an unfair interest rate but that the court found that no amount could be determined on the basis of which the amount of interest paid would be paid. Why did the court say that? Because Professor Miladin immediately after the final verdict in the case of Franak established at a seminar in Opatija that the overpaid amount could not be determined. And some judges accepted that view from Professor Miladin. It's very interesting how that professor jumped out of pâté at one awkward moment for the debtors, a shame for him. But here is the County Court in Zagreb changed the verdict of the first degree where the judge did not allow the amount of interest paid and the County Court in Zagreb to be paid for the amount of interest paid based on the difference between the increased interest rate and the initial interest rate. And now we're waiting for the Supreme Court's decision on statutes, and we expect that decision to be in favour of the debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77843	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77844	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77845	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague and colleague. The health ministry is one of the weakest in the otherwise weak government of Andrej Plenkovic, which according to all independent indicators does not implement any reforms. In this upper house for 2 years, we had no opportunity to see any law, any document, any initiative that would come from that ministry. The only thing we've heard is that there aren't enough nurses, not to admit someone's formal education, that there aren't enough devices, that waiting lists are extended, that there are no medicines for sick children, that cancer death continues to increase. Although I have repeatedly called for the National Strategy to be drawn up on the fight against cancer, so far, no one has been able to answer us. All we know is that the number of deaths is increasing every day, and the Republic of Croatia is at the rate of cancer mortality at the very top of the world, right next to North Korea, which is known for its nuclear experiments. How to explain the Ministry's instructions that malignant patients can only be treated in larger hospitals, that they must travel long enough to receive adequate medicines. Is the goal of giving up treatment in the end for patients? Is this on the trail and the fact that the ruling majority rejected our proposal to simplify the use of Indian hemp as a cure? At this point, 700 thousand people are waiting for control, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Examples of VZV of the heart for eight months, for magnetic resonation of the spine for almost a year. Instead of accessing a solution to the problem we listen to, and we already have informal confirmations that a complete Americanization of health care is being prepared in which patients will have to pay for all services. Despite the fact that HZZO is literally being bought in money, a large number of citizens are paying additional health benefits, and the pharmaceutical industry is making enormous completely unwarranted profits, so citizens can't even get basic services. The Ministry of Health these days is developing a mandatory health insurance law whereby all patients will have the same service regardless of their specificities, and everything else will have to be charged and more pointless, the service will be provided depending on the age of birth of patients. Delegating the maximum amount of participation currently amounting to 2000 kuna is required. Some kind of health basket is invented, and in practice it is about the fact that only rich people have the right to health. According to the proposal of the Health Insurance Act, it goes into full privatisation of primary health care. So, the infirmary, the office and the pharmacy. Although it is these months in Europe that the fight against profit-based health is going on, for example. in Sweden, in Croatia we want to follow exactly what has proved to be harmful. In other EU member states, it has been shown that, after the privatisation of healthcare, only 1/3 of the money ended with private healthcare workers was invested in services, and 2/3 were derived as profits. The living wall advocates full free health care, the abolition of supplementary health insurance, the resolution of public procurement issues, the restoration of the work of the Immunological Institute and the development of their own pharmaceutical companies, i.e. fair prices of medicines, for the purchase of sufficient diagnostic devices, for stopping party staffing in hospitals and in general for the fight against corruption. Health, social, education and strategic companies must not at all be privatised except as an exception confirming the rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77846	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Goran Aleksic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77848	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll go back to court practice, we have a fresh verdict of the County Court in Osijek. The County Court in Osijek has rightly ruled that the prosecutor who sued Hypo Bank, the former Hypo Bank, the current Adikko Bank, must be returned to him by a total of 11 009.86 Swiss francs in Kunsko equivalent per exchange rate per day when that amount will be returned plus the corresponding tight interest. Prosecutor Vlado Podbrznički sued the Hypo Bank who called Hypo Bank, now called Adikko Banka, it's the "our" bank which is, in fact, an Austrian bank but is ours because a branch is registered in Croatia. The bank had that beautiful hippo horse as a symbolic one, and that hippo horse looked so beautiful, as cute as some kind of toy for children, but the bank, like all other foreign-owned banks, agreed to an unfair and thus worthless contractual provision for a variable interest rate. So we received a powerful verdict at the High Court of Commerce on 13 June 2014 which ruled that all these banks had negotiated an unfair and thus worthless contractual provision on a variable interest rate. On this basis, the whole of the court's private disputes has been initiated, so far we have some 300-years of first-degree rulings and 15 powerful verdicts on the basis of which the debtors must be returned to their overpaid interest. In this lawsuit was also attended by the prosecutor's attorney, it was the Joint Attorney's Office Marijan Fosin, Bozica Petak Vujec and Andreja Fosin, congratulating the Joint Attorney's Office for great success, the first-degree verdict was reached at the Municipal Court in Varazdin. The Municipality court in Varazdin ruled just as the County Court in Osijek confirmed that the full amount of overpaid interest had to be recovered, there was no statute of limitations, so there was no statute of limitations because, by raising a collective suit in the case of Franak, the limitation of all private court proceedings and statutes had begun again to run with the power of collective judgment and that was 13 June 2014. So if the situation remained, and we hope that it would, the first statute would start to run only 13 June 2019, so all debtors who returned their loans to Swiss nationals, who had no conversion, have the right to overpaid interest and, if the High Commercial Court ruled that the unfair and currency clause CHF, would have the right to return the exchanges as well as those who had not converted loans to some of the new claims that they had no further differences. I appeal once again to colleagues from the ruling majority to address the problem of illegal interest margins that banks still charge with loans that are active, which were agreed before 2013, so banks in these loans, if not financed, still apply illegal non-contractually, unfairly, certain interest margins. The courts confirm that these margins are illegal, however, banks continue to apply these margins. The HDZ promised in July 2017 that it would deal with it, signed by our colleague and Croatian Parliament President Gordan Jandroković, but in the post of HDZ Secretary-General and until today's HDZ has done nothing to solve this problem. The problem of old age that goes well in high courts so far is still not resolved, so we wait for the Supreme Court to bring the word on that too. The Supreme Court has promised to resolve this very quickly, so I hope it will be settled by summer even though the summer has already begun in some way. Finally, I call on all debtors damaged by the illegal business of Croatian banks who negotiated loans in any currency clause before 2013, to report questions to Franak on mail law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77849	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77850	Now it is up to a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic, on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77851	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd round up the story of misdemeanor proceedings against banks for the last three years. The story is essentially over because on April 1st 2018, in the opinion of the criminal courts and the High Violent Court, the statutes of the proceedings have become obsolete, so it is now all in the past. What was that about? It was that banks had not agreed on a fixed part of the interest rate and the variable part of the interest rate, in all the loans in which they had not agreed on the previous fixed part of the interest rate and had to invite the debtors to comply with them in all such loans and to agree on those parameters and were provided by law unless they comply and agreed on those parameters that they would be punished by penalties of 80 to 200,000 kuna. I personally, as an activist of the Franak Association, prepared templates for the indictments against banks and people began to press charges against banks for not agreeing with them the parameters for changing the interest rate. From the beginning, criminal courts sentenced the fines, sentenced 80,000 fines, and even $150,000 fines for banks, and sentenced between 10,000 and 15,000 kuna fines for responsible persons in banks. What's going on in the meantime? At the end of 2016, the High Violent Court decided that the bank that notified the debtor of the parameters would not be punished. Imagine the High Violent Court decided that the notice would become part of the contract. It's a scandalous decision by the High Court of Justice. This decision is so scandalous that it is incomprehensible that there is at all such an example in the Republic of Croatia where it is very clear that the contractual relationship between the two parties in which the will of both parties must be respected and both parties must agree to the contractual provisions written in the contracts. However, the High Violent Court decides that the notice sent by the bank by mail, which it did not comply with and did not then contract in the contract becomes part of the contract. And that's why the banks aren't being punished in criminal courts. There's only one rule of power that Addiko Bank has been punished with 80,000 kuna for not agreeing on those parameters. It's a case in which Addiko Bank didn't even send the necessary notice she was supposed to send. The Constitutional Court is currently pending constitutional suit proceedings because the High Violent Court refused to sentence banks. It was possible to impose 200,000 fines that all people who suffered such damage from banks had sued the bank's misdemeanor courts and in the RS budget would have ended up on the basis of those claims about 10 billion kunas if what is written in the law had been accepted. Unfortunately, what it says in the law is not accepted by the High Violent Court. I personally received a ruling that the bank would not be punished because my procedure was obsolete, and it is obsolete because the High Court of Violation abolished the already indictable verdict in November 2017, and provided me with a notice of this only in March 2018 seven days before an old trial, imagine four months it stood in the drawer of the High Criminal Court. However, I must commend some other courts, which are civil courts. Therefore, civil courts regularly impose overpayments on all debtors who have suffered an unfair increase in interest rates in their loans and civil courts do not accept the position of the High Violent Court in order to make the margins defined outside the contractually correct margins. Therefore, in civil courts fortunately debtors, such a position of the High Criminal Court does not hold water and cannot hold water because a citizen court knows that two contracting parties must sign and agree to contractual provisions otherwise do not apply. What we're waiting for right now is a decision by the Supreme Court on the limitation of interest claims. I hope that this will be resolved very soon because the President of the Supreme Court has promised that all cases of the Franak case will be given priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77852	We move on to the next presentation of the position on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here's your colleague, Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77853	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I took this break to talk about changing refugee policy in Europe and what it all brings for our Croatia. We know there was a major refugee crisis at the end of 2015 and in early 2016, in response to my parliamentary question I learned that 658,000 migrants passed through Croatia at the time, and of these 658,000 migrants were statistically processed by 92.5% and 608,000 migrants, respectively. If we look at some of the data in more detail, let's say the age, I'm unfortunately not all that I asked for, so I'm going to ask the MUP again, but we see that it's about 90% of the men while some 10% of the women from migrants who go through Croatia. Migrants or refugees Croatia does not care, who is interested in the country from which its own citizens flee. They go further west and north to Sweden, Germany, and that is their ultimate goal. If someone has crossed 5,000 km from an African or Asian country, say Sudan or Afghanistan to reach Croatia, they will make another 50 or 500 to go to Austria or Germany. Two days ago, we had an event at Maljevac when a larger group of migrants wanted to illegally cross the state border between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, the group was prevented in that attempt and was actually returned to the UN-San canton or the Cazin region. The situation that is happening today is that Bosnia becomes a hotspot or in English hotspot for refugees. In fact, if we look at the latest changes in EU and EU member states and other neighbouring countries towards migrants, we need to highlight a few things. In Italy, there has been a change in the policy of the new Italian government banning docking of ships that rescue migrants belonging to associations at sea, as Liefeline or Seawatch also thinks about closing the island of Lampedusa we also have in Austria a new government headed by Sebastian Kurz, which also implements a conservative policy and implements a joint action by the Austrian military and police within a few days because they use both the state authorities to protect their borders. We know that Hungary has long been the first to lift the wire and since then, migrants have been avoiding that path. In Germany, there is also a major crisis between the CDU and the CSU, even Mrs Merkel argues if I understand well that the entire future of Europe and its ruling coalition is at stake because they cannot agree whether to take a more conservative or more liberal stance towards migrants. So we do not know at this time what is the common policy of our neighbouring countries, or countries that make up the EU. At this point, the next situation is happening, we know that the Slovenians have already raised their wire, are not prone to missing illegal entry or are inclined to allow refugees to stay there for a long time, is particularly conservative in this regard Hungary. On the other hand, what is happening in Greece, 7.6 days ago over an incident Turkey cancelled an agreement with Greece. In other words, all migrants now leaving Greece for Turkey will no longer receive them to return Greece to Turkey. What does that mean? This means that one 3.5, 4 million people in Turkish camps gathering there because of that EU-Turkey agreement are waiting at a low start to rush towards their final destinations. What are those routes? Migrants say experts like water, if there is a closed road on Lampedusa or at the Hungarian border they will find a new way to reach their goal. Currently, one of the strongest routes across Greece is that from Turkey's direction, which must be from Greece's islands through Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro to BiH and from the east through Sandzak to BiH. BiH is becoming a focus for migrants, Croatia is not clearly on this issue at this time, unless it is clearly set, Croatia will become a hotspot. I call on the government to adopt a common policy as soon as possible, or to take a decisive stance on migrants, to determine which position it will take if that is not the case, says one 200 people daily returning to BiH from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77854	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic, for taking this stand. That's what we've exhausted all of our attitudes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77855	Next on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representative Club, the Honorable Representative, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77856	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I took a break to speak to the event a few days ago, which is the rejection of criminal charges against the Bork Group by the USKOK. In the criminal record I have here in my hand filed by the Living Wall, we have several crimes. This is the first, abuse of positions and powers of Article 291. Then abuse of privileged information 259. Trade in influence of 295 and not reporting the preparation of a criminal offence, Article 301. It should be said that in his explanation, BUSKOK itself actually shows how clumsy, clumsyly he did his job. Namely, although as many as 4 people have been reported, Mr Plenkovic, then Minister Dalic and Vice President, Mr Maric Minister of Finance, and more is Mr Bricel. Despite the fact that 4 people have been reported, they have examined an increasing number of people than they are involved, and all others who still care about them as they do. Mr. Boris Šavoric, Mr. Matic, Mr. I don't know Korunić asked them all absolutely nothing, not to talk about Matko Maravić, Tina Dolicko, Tony Smrček, they didn't ask anything at all. It's one of the first failures. In addition, if 4 crimes have been reported, they have been selectively investigated for those offences, so to speak, abuse of privileged information is one of the key things that concerns the abuse of information from the stock market. So we have a situation where the Intercapital Company, whose co-owner, was a member of this Bork Group, had privileged information. No, he wasn't asked anything. No, it wasn't questioned what he knew or didn't know. So we can report a felony, but nothing has been questioned about it. So I sent the question to HANFA. I have here an inquiry of HANFA's five questions. One of the questions was – was there a trade in time, January, February, March, April 2017 for the shares of Agrokor or the companies from the Agrokor concert? The answer was yes. So HANFA listed me here – Ledo 251 million, Jamnica 182 million etc. In total, it was traded with 8 companies from the Agrokor concert at this time of dispute. And we're reading here yesterday, the only brokerage house that won that period was just intercapital as an accident. Why didn't you at least call the Intercapital gentleman here to ask him some questions? Did he ask him -- how is it possible that you were doing the law, that you got a job under that law, that your firm had in the portfolio of a stock company in Agrokor, that in that period you made 20% of the profits if I wasn't wrong and everyone else in the minus 10, 15, 30, if you were in the Agrokor logic working group, then you know what you were doing, then there's something wrong with Agrokor. You know there's something wrong with Agrokora, others don't know. You have Martina Dalic in the working group with whom you communicate daily, others do not. Even come to me with information, so I urge USKOK to examine whether Mr. Martina Dalic had an open account in the Intercapital, if any of these shares went to her advantage, where the examination of her assets was. There's hardly a whole series of leaks on those 10 pages they wrote in this break. There'll be more. USKOK also states that it was not possible to know that Ante Ramljak would become a commissioner, which has nothing to do with logic. Well, just because he was in that group, he became a commissioner. That was the condition you see from the e-mails that someone became Commissioner, our commissioner let's remember that he was part of this group. THE BOOK simply doesn't see it all, he doesn't care, he's conducted a tricky investigation into partial crimes, a partial number of people, and of course the result had to be as political as not professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77857	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77858	The second debate of the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77859	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, billions of kunas per year are failing because of the Croatian judiciary, billions of kunas annual investments are trapped in the Croatian judiciary. If we turn that into GDP, it's my free estimate of at least one percentage point of GDP a year, so with some poor 3% growth at present, that only this part works, we might have some 4% a year. Officials are creating a false picture in the Croatian judiciary, so Mr. Jelenic, the chief state attorney, on the day he defended his appointment on the board, said no, it's not true that the DORH has criminal charges, it's some kind of myth, it's something that's going through, it's not true at all, no, Mr. Jelenic, it's true, it's a sad Croatian reality, that that's how it is, here's another proof here with me. I've already listed a series of criminal charges, I've already listed a series of cases, I've read the file numbers, whatever you want. I'll remind you only when I'm here in front of Mr. Plenkovic who hasn't done anything to change any of his ministers, I was talking about the Agrokor case, about the 8-year-old Press case, where there's no state's attorney's decision. Here's a fresh case, watch it like this. It means the Krdo-686/2010 file, only 31 May 2018, after 8 years and 2 days, was reached by a state's attorney's decision. The legal deadline is 6 months plus 12 months, and here it's been over 100 months and 8 years and 2 days, respectively. It's not the only case of that, a series of criminal charges lying in drawers in the DORH, this is a particular case of Fantasy Land, the whole case is very complex, it's a billion-dollar investment and 300 million kuna that's been standing for 10 years. Not only was nothing done in this criminal case, so there were no investigative actions at all, but it was deliberately delayed and obstructed, someone obviously in the interest that such processes were standing, that Croatia was not developing and that, of course, someone could draw his own private interest out of it. It is not the judiciary or the County State's Attorney's Office and the entire State's Attorney's Office is the only narrow throat of the Croatian judiciary, the narrow throat of the judiciary is a judicial inspection. In the case of Fantasy Land, a series of criminal activities took place, of course the owner of the crime scene reported to the DORH. They haven't done anything in 3.4 years, and after that, the same thing, not doing DORH has been reported to a judicial inspection, there hasn't been anything going on in three or four years, and now we're in a situation where we have Mr. Bosnjakovic responsible for the whole situation. Why? When there's a crime, it controls the DORH. When DORH schedules in his actions, it controls the judicial inspection. When a judicial inspection is scheduled, there are bodies such as the minister who directly prescribes a plan for the current year which the judicial inspection will check, by courts and by the DORH. No, Mr. Bošnjakovic, you have a series of criminal charges that are not handled by hundreds of months, you have extremely valuable projects, you have serious crime and judicial proceedings. Why didn't you order a judicial inspection to do your job, why didn't you order the DORH to check why it hadn't been handled in years, only in this case for eight years, and there's a series of cases in the Fantasy Land case. Therefore, I can't help but think that you also want to create a fake image in the Croatian judiciary, that you're not capable of your function, that you deliberately obstruct, that you deliberately protect DORH's negativity, crime in DORH, why? That's a very interesting question. Romania's 1500 officials, politicians, mayors, MPs, I don't know what, sanctioned to a final verdict. Have we led anyone to a powerful verdict from large fish in Croatia? We didn't. We're not and we're not being supervised by any law-abiding verdict. It is the state of the Croatian judiciary, for which you are directly responsible, Mr. Bošnjakovic. One interesting thing. This case has been dragging for 8 years since 2010. And who was the minister of justice then? Same Mr. Bosnjakovic. And here he sells us some kind of joke, a small judicial reform, and serious crime is in institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77860	And now it's up to the gentleman who's already arrived, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77861	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to speak summed up on the problems that have remained related to unfair loans which I estimate in the Republic of Croatia at least 200 thousand. What's settled? We have settled the situation of illegal change of interest rates in collective terms. It has been ruled rightly that banks have negotiated an unfair interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision. It has also been ruled in the Supreme Court that there is no limitation on the return of overpaid interest, so that all debtors can freely go to courts and return their overpaid interest on the basis of court decisions. Unfortunately, a large number of people are not aware of this, so a large number of people in the courts won't go, so it would be desirable in some foreseeable future for us to settle it here in a systematic legal solution. What are we waiting for? We're waiting for the next solutions. The first thing we are waiting for is a new decision by the High Court of Commerce in the case of Franak, where the High Court of Commerce should decide in a renewed procedure whether banks in the Republic of Croatia have negotiated an unfair and thus worthless currency clause in the Swiss franc. The ruling will first and foremost be based on the judgment of the EU Court of Justice C186/16 in which the EU court clearly and unequivocally stated what it is necessary to establish in the national court in order to establish that the currency clause CHF is non-performing and, in addition, the President of the EU Court of Justice said one or two sentences that are very clear, he said: Debtants are not allowed to pay the disproportionate rate difference and, if that happens, the banks must repay all such exchange rates to the debtors. That is what the President of the EU Court of Justice said, so the president of the EU's most judicial institution, which we are all subject to in terms of respect of their decisions. The next thing you know, what happens to the loans that have been converted? Do debtors in such loans have the right to overpaid interest, or will they be entitled to other differences that may occur on the basis of a new judgment of the High Court of Commerce? And since we have very different court rulings, we have judgments that are determined to return overpaid interest, despite conversions, and we have judgments that rule that no overpaid interest can be paid because it was a conversion. So it will also have to be decided by the Supreme Court in the end on the basis of some audits, for I am sure that, after the powerful judgments that will be questionable, which will actually be different, as was the case for overpaid interest in terms of limitations, there will be audits at the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will have to take their stand on this issue. The next reality that is not clear is the issue of an outdated claim for the euro and kuna loans, because despite what I say, most of the experts who cooperate with me argue that there is no limitation of claims on overpayments for the euro and kuna loans, however, some courts say that there are antiquities, others that do not exist, so the Supreme Court will also have to decide on that. So the Supreme Court has a lot of, a lot of interest-related work and a case of francs in the Republic of Croatia. What we will have to decide again, what we rejected last year, will again come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, which is the issue of illegal interest margins. Therefore, the banks agreed in all loans agreed before 2013 an illegal way of changing the interest rate, and then they again acted illegally again and in early 2014, out of contract and thereby unlawfully defined a fixed interest margin in such loans. All such loans have unfair and thus a worthless interest margin, and this margin cannot be resolved by the court. The head of the Supreme Court's civil department, Damir Kontrec, said at a conference publicly that the court has no authority to define these margins, that they are illegal, but that the court has no authority to define them, but that authority has this body, the legislator. So so soon on the agenda, I say soon, in maybe half a year, maybe in a few months, there will be another law on the agenda on which to propose... the illegal margins and their conversion into legal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77862	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77863	Now that it's 13 o'clock, we're going to take a stand on behalf of the clubs, so the first one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club, the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77864	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to talk today about the suspension of democracy in the Croatian Parliament, so we have had as much open debate as we have until the change of the famous Rules of Procedure, which we see, this debate has significantly lost in dynamics. The points are much less analysed, much less the public informed about them thanks to this, and it was obviously not enough for the ruling majority, so they resorted to extreme dragon measures. So every day we have a series of warnings here, we have the exclusion of deputies from the session, the taking of words, they simply want the opposition to disappear completely and then their voting machine simply raises its hands for the laws, which come from both the EU and the government, without understanding and without any critical words. What worries, however, is that the ruling majority in its behaviour also has general support for the SDP, which we could easily see yesterday at a session led by Vice-President Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, who literally gave notices to all the opposition representatives present in the Chamber, also threw out a representative of the Living Wall of Pernar for extremely incomprehensible reasons. He's practically acting like a gunman in some cowboy movie and he's basically made an impression of a man who's even more rigid and even less democratic than Vice President Željko Reiner, who is otherwise known for his personality, let's just say it's so strict and it's not good enough. Here we see one tendency to actually SDP and HDZ in cohabitation silence the only real opposition in the Croatian Parliament, you, above all, think of the Living Wall, so that they actually get enough, not only to prepare a large coalition, but they are already in the big coalition, and then it would be the most honest, to make their agreement and formalize, to put it nicely on paper, to divide the ministries they have and then to take responsibility for all the good and bad that happens in Croatia. For those of you who don't know, who don't understand, I call on them to watch the vote in parliament on Fridays, we had last Friday, the SDP raised absolutely the same hands, as the HDZ representative, so in 98% of the cases, the SDP raises its hands the same as HDZ, which means that they are not opposition, but only one of them was hiding one of those same birds. Namely, the SDP also supports the HDZ policy towards the EU and HDZ policy towards NATO, and according to the pension system that we have seen, raises hands together, I don't know about referendums and archive material, for all that you are about Croatian citizens, they are complex. The only question they're different from is where they're going to stand some record, where they're going to stand some bust. To whom will the crown be laid for the victims of 2nd St. War or not, but in everything else they're complicated. And it's just amazing to me, that a person who behaves as such is extremely undemocratic as Mr. Doncic, that he shows ambition, that he would actually want to be not only the head of the SDP but some future diameter, it is indeed precisely a clue and a comical, extremely unserious and caricature that with such a low threshold of tolerance, with such a low threshold of understanding of democratic processes someone wants to be at the head of Croatia, as a democratic state. I can't figure it out, because 20 years ago, I worked in the education system, in the follow-up, I had different difficult and complicated situations in my classrooms, in the place where I taught, but I've never punished anyone, I've never thrown anyone out, if I'd acted like this, as vice presidents of the Parliament, probably my students or my students would have thrown eggs and tomatoes at me with full rights. Because first of all, the person who's running some session, who's performing... It needs to be wise, to be cultural, to be the authority that stems from her knowledge, not from some violent interpretation of the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77865	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77866	And I apologize for the marble that was in the back but we have verbally solved this on the alert of Mr. Goran Aleksic who will now use five minutes in front of the Living Wall and the SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77867	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have already talked about this many times, but today I have to say one more detail about some of the things I started because yesterday I spoke to Minister Maric about it, Minister Maric received 3 variants of the proposal for a solution to the problem of illegal fixed interest margins in loans agreed before 2013 and Minister Maric told me that he would receive me on the river in July to discuss the problem. I've been waiting half a year for him to take me in, not take me in, but half a year, and I expect him to see me in July. And what's this about? The finance ministry has received from me 3 variants of the proposal for a solution for illegal fixed interest margins and these solutions look about like this. The first decision is based on the fact that in all loans in which banks did not agree with debtors a variable interest rate in the correct manner, banks had to show on the basis of the initial terms at the time when the loans were agreed, each individual interest margin, as agreed at the beginning of the contractual relationship and of course, such an offer would have to be granted to each individual debtor who has an unlawfully established interest margin and on the basis of that offer then the debtor would either agree or reject one such offer. However, I believe that everyone would agree because it is in any case favourable for debtors. The second variant is based on the Hungarian model of the solution of interest margins, and the Hungarian model is such that the Hungarian government, which had the same problem with banks as we do, so in Hungary the banks also agreed on loans with a variable interest rate without established interest margins, and then the Hungarian Government proposed and parliament adopted this to show the variable interest rate as a sum of fixed interest margins 1 + BUBOR. And BUBOR is nothing but a national rate reference in Croatia. So there's all these loans that had an illegal interest rate. After the government and parliament intervention, regulated in such a way that they are shown as one fixed interest part, one fixed part of the interest rate + BUBOR. Finally, I have proposed a third variant of a solution that should be acceptable to banks, and this is a variant in which in all loans in which a fixed part of the interest rate and a variable part of the interest rate should never be agreed, but also in converted CHF credits because in those loans is imposed by a type of contract, so in all such loans, banks would have to offer the debtors an interest rate based on an average interest rate for a particular type of credit and a certain currency in 2018. Therefore, the CNB would have to calculate the average for all banks, which is the average for housing loans, especially for kuna, especially for the euro but especially for CHF because there are still traces in Croatia and then would have to specifically establish the average interest rate for all banks, which is the average for housing loans, and then would have to offer them a fixed rate of interest in 2018. I repeat once again, at the beginning of 2014, banks voluntarily, unnecessarily defined interest rates and their fixed parts. It was then decided on 13 June 2014 that this was not worth it, that it was unfair and that banks should not behave in the future. So the court found that the bank's behaviour is not legal and now it's up to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament to systematically resolve it. And I call on the Minister of Finance to finally talk to me about the subject and find a common language and solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77868	Thank you, too, for a second. The second is Mr Branimir Bunjac, who will represent the Society of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGE. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77870	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Today I'm going to talk about the problem of autism. Autism as a neurological dysfunction becomes a growing problem in the world, as well as in Croatia. In 1960, only two 100,000 children in the United States were autistic, today it's one child of 50. Forecasts predict that in the future, even one in two children will be autistic. Scary, isn't it? In Croatia, the trend is similar if not worse, we used to have three children autistic to 10,000 children, today there are three to 50. The estimates suggest that there are currently about 40,000 people in the Republic of Croatia with autistic spectrum disorders, of which 15 thousand children. Unlike the U.S., the situation here is far worse because there is no systematic concern for this problem that has been recognized and permanently present back in the last three decades. There is no timely access to people with autism and only abandonment of diagnosis is required on average for one year mostly because there is no single diagnostic centre in Croatia. The government is not making enough efforts to establish a system model for early interventions and it is amazing that there is not even a comprehensive record of people with dysfunctions of autism in the Republic of Croatia. People with autism can't even get a transparent assistant and especially a professional rehabilitator, e.g. logos and things like that. As a result, parents are forced to pay most of their therapy to private or professional associations because there are no professionals in healthcare who would work with children and there is almost no help available on the manual. Following this, many do not improve their condition and remain permanently excluded from society in many ways starting with not attending kindergartens, not suitable education, until the inability to go to a doctor or dentist. There is no movement in the field of work and employment of people with autism. Partly because the autistics are with us under the supervision of the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education, although they need a multidisciplinary approach in line with modern world movements. There are certain theoretical conclusions but in practice there are no results. In early 2013, the government initiated the creation of an inter-resor group of 3 ministries, education, social and health care, but I repeat, nothing has been done so far. In 2015, an agreement was signed between the Ministry of Education and the Social Ministry that care for people with autism, above the age of 21, would be taken over by the Ministry of Social Affairs but the contract remained mostly a dead letter on paper. The ministry is demanding that associations deal with social services, which is unacceptable for parents because they do not want to, nor do they have to do the job that the state should do. The most critical situation for people with autism is over 21 years of age who are completely isolated and on the care of only parents who are afraid of what will happen to their children when they die. The only institution that systematically shows concern for this problem is the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and her every honor. On this occasion, I call on the Ministers Divjak, Kujundzic and Murganic to join her, all parliamentary representatives, the city of Zagreb and the local self-government units, especially the media, and that they all take appropriate measures without delay in this matter because the waiting time is no more. It is clear that people with autism dysfunction are very harshly violated by the elemental civil, human rights, particularly by the carelessness and neglect of them, that the Republic of Croatia violates the European Social Charter and a whole series of other documents. A clear strategy of action should be adopted and implemented within a reasonable period of time in order for Croatia to become a civilised and regulated country. The question arises as to what a country of its own does if it does not care for those most needed, and these are people with health problems, especially children. All of them should be included in society as soon as possible as possible in a way that enables them to carry out the inclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77871	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall in which the respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77872	Thank you, Chairman, I took this break to warn the public of the greatest loss in the business of the CNB since its draft. In 2017, the CNB achieved the greatest loss since the establishment of the Croatian state since the 1990s. The year stands at 2 billion and 554 million kn. The audit firm De leut made a report on the financial operations of the National Bank on 15 March, for 2017, but it was therefore not publicly published after 100 days, which has never been the case so far. The question is, what is he hiding? What are you hiding to Governor Vujčić, you're hiding the advice of the CNB, otherwise the CNB is known, there's very little criticism in this House, but that's a lot more than when there was nothing, what are you hiding? Why can't an audit enter the CNB, why can't you choose the CNB leadership in a transparent way? So far, we've been in a situation where, always from the same cards, the same basket picks the leadership of the CNB, so when they run out of mandate, they pick the same ones again. It is impossible to repeat what moves to expect policy changes, and the CNB is one of the graves of the Croatian economy in particular real economy in Croatia and is the cause of a whole series of anomalies in the Croatian financial system, from Swiss, from Raiffeisen cooperatives, bank control and a whole series of failures in this sector, there is no responsibility, we see. The question arises, why is this key information hidden from the Croatian Parliament? The question arises, is it perhaps timed, at this very time this information came out, because the governor might have wanted to hide it, to prevent it from being re-elected. Yes, I, Mr. Vujčić, as well as his predecessor, Mr. Rohatinski, who we found out was deeply networked, with a roof of capitalism, with this I would say, unfeedalism, by Todorovic and the whole team, it was recognised on the board of Agrokor, his successor, student, adjudicator, people may have switched, but politics remained the same. If the Prime Minister is silent about all this, as the CNB has been working on a strategy for introducing the euro, which he, despite his dominant opposition to the public, the Croatian public is against the euro. If we introduce the euro, right now at least 2,000 people working in exchange offices are going to the street. It's just the beginning. If the Prime Minister intends to use this as his personal asset in Brussels, I seek answers to these questions, questions about the CNB one of the key institutions of the Croatian State. I repeat, the most netranscent institution in the Republic of Croatia, they can do whatever I want there, they have tens of billions of kuna and euros, no one can ask them anything. They even took our right to challenge their report, be careful, it says in the National Bank Act, that the CNB is owned by the Croatian state, so the owner can do with the owner what he wants but in practice we can't do anything. What a scentic thing to do. I call therefore, at this time, for the Croatian Parliament to allow the revision to enter the CNB, it exists in the Law on State Audit, I have recently read it, one article, one item, which allows the Parliament to send its decision in fact any revision and I call for that act to be used legally, to finally establish the real situation in the CNB and human and financial and all that should be done by internal control, audit, etc. The requirement also to make all the public known, the time of non-transparentity of the CNB must end, the time of manipulation and the hiding of the truth is nearing its end. Which is actually the cause of such a huge loss, we do not know, precisely because the institution is non-transparent and probably foreign reserves, but the Croatian public deserves to know. 2017 is interesting to mention CNB was the biggest loser in the Republic of Croatia, the biggest loser of all legal persons. So, we don't even know what the real situation is in the National Bank, and if Mr. Vujčić or anyone like him, some clone or part of that team, we can't expect it to be better for Croatia or for the Croatian economy. So change of people, change of policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77873	Here is a colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, taking a stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77874	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I took this break to warn of problems with the allocation of funds in measure 4 in agriculture. In 2017, therefore, the ministry praised last year, commending that it was a quick settlement within 90 days of all the requests received in the tender of measure 4 and that the award decisions were quickly received. This proved to be incorrect, as one of Podokin's villages of Minister Tolusic, so here's the situation. The information I'm about to present in one piece came from the answer to my representative's question. The situation is the same or easier than it was in previous tenders, in 2017, in measure 4 there were 6 tenders in which the first administrative control was, and 3 were controls, 225 of the 325 users passed, and 25 of the 325 passed the second administrative control. What does that mean? That means it's in 14 months. since the call, that the tender is not yet completed as a first, that there is no talk of a quick resolution and especially of a settlement within 90 days. I repeat, in order for the tender to be completed, there must be another third administrative control and closure of the project. Here's to the comparison of 2015, 2015 in 15 months. The whole contest is closed, and now 14 months from now. Not even 10% of applications have been processed. It is obvious that the amendments to the regulations governing this tender and the introduction of these third administrative controls at the end of the project have led to the complexity and slowdown of competitions for the approval of these projects. However, as one of the great deceptions of large Croatian citizens, the public should be aware of the fact that even when you pass the first administrative control, which took 150 days, you do not get the funds based on the competition. So according to the decisions made by the farmers who applied for the competition, none of them can launch the project because this decision on the allocation of funds does not mean that they have passed the competition, let alone that they have received the funds. So out of the three administrative controls you go first, you get one cute document writing the allocation of funds but there's no money because you only need the third one, it's one marketing trick that the minister can say here we've allotted the funds, and actually it's not, it's actually getting fat late, even worse than the previous years. So it's about misinformation of the public about the speed of the agency's work. It means it's not about giving real money, it's simply about some decision to go to first administrative control, and behind that decision, the farmer is still waiting for a long way to go to the competition, i.e. the passing of the second administrative control and the third which may take more than a year, we see here for the 2017 competition. 14 months and still waiting. But what's still a big problem with projects like this, look out now, is the allocation of funds. So out of the 200 million kunas scheduled for a measure of 4, 400 OPGs that have an economic value of more than 250 000 euros, there are 80 million kunas available, and 100 000 OPGs that have below 250 000 euros, they have 120 million kunas at their disposal. So 400 OPGs have 80 million, and 100,000 has 120 million. This is the continuation of the agricultural policy of Minister Tolusic, as well as the previous governments to favour large, not only companies large around Agrokor and similar companies. So we know that it went hand in hand for years to Mr Todorovic, but also within the OPG, which account for 98% of all agricultural producers, within the structure of the OPG of the largest, or large OPGs. We'll see here it's about some 400 chosen ones. It is also one of the measures which constitutes a blow to young farmers, small farmers being made through the amendments to the Regulation for the above mentioned measure IV. The new Regulation limits the amount of the project for small farmers and reduces the status of a young farmer to 5 years. Unfortunately, we see here the continuity of Croatia's agricultural policy, except for the incentives that money goes great, so does measure IV. We see that the administration is suffocating us again, and we see that instead of things getting better they're getting worse. In addition to the devastation of the agricultural chamber, the CAP law which is not good enough, the Agricultural Land Act and all that we have done is not seen bright days for Croatia. Agriculture and Hrv. rural space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77875	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77876	The next club of representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77877	Thank you, Chairman. I took this break to discuss the circumstances in which the new governor, or the new old governor of the CNB, was appointed. Let's remember, there was Wednesday, a very important game not only seen by the whole of Croatia but the whole world was at 8:00, we were here three, four of us until about 19 hours. That day, at 13 and 30 and after 14 and 30, two committees met, the first Committee on Finance and the second Committee on Selection and Appointing while the focus of the public was on more beautiful things, here in a devious way, as was done with the choice of the chief state attorney and with the Committee for Conflict of Interest, etc. the fate of the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia has been set up. What does it have to say about the CNB? It should be said that this is the farthest most lenient institution of the Republic of Croatia, which achieved 2.5 billion debt last 2017, which increased its share of the external debt of the Republic of Croatia to 2 billion euros. We're talking about an institution where 600 people work, 100 of which means every sixth, the governor directly chooses, it's a paradise for clientelem and clientelemists. So he chooses who he'll put there without any public competition. They choose themselves Vice-Governors, always choose between the same people or similar people and rotate, write their own laws when they enter the EU and elsewhere, amend the CNB Act, this law is to be made real, written right from the click in the CNB. Should we say what are the CNB's misses? We heard about Agrokor, why does the governor allow if the kuna is a currency in Croatia a means of payment, that wages are paid in bonuses? And a series of institutions said here that it was illegal, they didn't do anything because against Todorovic, of course, they shouldn't. Why would he let the bonds go uncovered? It's none of his business. Why did he allow a series of illegalities in the work of banks? Of the Swiss who wrapped Croatia in black, of the ferocious Raiffeisen cooperatives and any other credit offices in the Republic of Croatia? From burying the judiciary for that? All the unfortunate fates of the family. After all, why did he allow a banking cartel to be created in the Republic of Croatia? The CNB is a bank regulator. It's one of the roles of the central bank even though it's not a real central bank, but I'm not going to elaborate it here again. So if you put 3 people at the table, if one is from ZABA, if the other is from PBZ, the third is from Erste Bank, you have one coffee control over 55% of the Croatian banking market, and if you put 5 people on the table, you add ADDICO, former HYPO and Raiffeisen Bank, you have three quarters of the Croatian banking market under control among 5 people. These people have been taking advantage of the Republic of Croatia for years, and that allows them to do so by the CNB, not only not to watch what they're doing, but it had a high econtamination rate, 7.9% while Europe, America, had half a percent, 0.25%. Now some are even negative, negative interest rates, we have abnormal interest rates, all of this affects not only interest rates on loans, but also on tight interest rates because tight interest is being built amongst others from an escontaneous rate. It's all a blow to Croatian debtors. A series of examples in the Republic of Croatia where banks entered construction projects, especially ZABA, Erste Banka, and others where they gave credit for construction and just before completion or completion, have cancelled credit in order to take both the project and the property and the money. I've recently been to one hearing as a public hearing where such a case happened. ... where the Living Wall moved a dozen families with the permission of the owner is one such story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 200 other cases at Ersta Bank and the association are being watched who you're banking with. All that matters to the governor of the CNB is nothing. Not to mention exchange rate policy, interest policy. It is clear that it is a state in the country and it is clear why the establishment needs such people to implement this depopulation policy of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77878	Thank you very much. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the following will be said by the respected representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77880	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I've been looking for this break and the possibility to speak in these five minutes, and regarding the name of the GLAS and HSU club, it's about additional health insurance. In fact, one part of our citizens is in no way clear that supplemental health insurance does not cover both medicines and I am kind of thrown out with questions as to why this additional health insurance would, of course, cover a larger amount of medicines. I need to get to know you that in some 12 years of the existence of additional health insurance, various insurance companies covered and the prices of medicines on the B list. But everyone, even a one-year public security guard, covered it, but they all gave it up. For what? They gave up because the drug policy that will be on the A list, which on the B list, the drug price policy, the payment policy according to the pharmaceutical industry does not lead the additional health insurance of private or public insurance companies, but rather leads the HZZO. And on the board as you have heard today decisions are made which will be free, which will be on list A, on list B. As long as there are no stable conditions, or insurance companies are subject to the risk of changing the list and the price will by then be unable to form one price or public or private supplementary health insurance to cover the price of medicines. This must be guaranteed and at least worth a year in order to form a price because even a public insurance company could because it is part of the state in financing that part of the poor citizens who have income below the censorship, and instead of paying the state. However, no one is involved in this business, and yet it is not about the insurance business if the risks are too high, or if he does not see one of his own, some of his own profits. Today, in Croatia, 9 private insurance companies are operating in health insurance and one of our largest public insurance additional health insurance insurance companies owned by HZZO with their special account and quasi autonomy and in decision-making, and we find it very interesting and... this price of an additional health insurance policy at 70 kuna at the level of availability, thus ensuring the availability of healthcare for most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Prices from private insurance companies are much more severe, especially for those over 60 and over 65 years of age, and prices are increasing multiple among individual insurance companies. And that's why it's good for us to know what this is about, to know that with this HZZO policy on drug prices, it won't be possible to achieve this desired result for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because there are no policy transparencys and there can be no transparent policies on the price of medicines if it's time to pay to the pharmaceutical industry and 900 days. Know if someone pays for 900 days to the pharmaceutical industry then the pharmaceutical industry calculates its financing costs and installs them in the price of these drugs that ultimately pay for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I ask all those who approach me in this way to try to understand how the whole system works, however, to support me if it were possible and not to cause the collapse of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77881	Thank you very much. Now we'll take a break as announced by the President of the Parliament by 3:00 and then hopefully we'll have a quorum to vote on our new colleague and proceed with the first item of the agenda. Thank you very much. It's 2:00 P.M. Next will be the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77883	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In our media space, the climate was created that the elevator project had failed. I must publicly say that the elevator project couldn't fail because it didn't exist as such, it only existed as a horizontal measure in the line of energy reconstruction of buildings as a horizontal measure and the installation of elevators into multi-story residential buildings and as such, that line was overbooked 300%. So 300 percent more candidates than what has the means. I assure our fellow citizens, especially pensioners, especially those 60,000 people who have been blocked in their apartments, in multi-story residential buildings with limited movements that the project has been building a project in creation, that it was launched by pensioners in 2016, 2017 and 2018 pushing this project, so there can be no answer to even the former government as much responsibility as it has shifted from not being well planned. And that what I said on the topical is true, I ask our citizens to look at today's public television at 2:00 in the consumer code where State Secretary Mr. Dragan Jelic said that there must be a sort of rebalancing of the operational programme, that what will not be realised on certain lines from objective or any reason for these figures to be reduced and to open a new niche for financing, installing elevators into several residential, or multi-story residential buildings. I would like in some way to commend the RES ministry that they have resettled from one firm stance and are going towards what is expected of them, which is that by half of July of this year they create all assumptions and propose to the European Commission the rebalancing of the operational plan of competitiveness and cohesion and that, as early as next year, they start designing and installing elevators into several residential buildings because we have all the information from the European Commission that this is possible and that the European Commission is ready to design these projects with... to finance mobility and availability at home with 85%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remind you of what I saw for the sixth floor panoramic lift costs about 44,000 kuna in Zagreb with a 15-year loan where people pay back 3.5 thousand. Imagine if such a single project were financed from the EU by 85% which would be a relief for the tenants and would certainly be less obstacles to agreements that someone cannot for objective reasons co-finance such a project from the tenants. This is important for the mobility of older people and also for pregnant women, young women with young children. In the end, it is also important for the functioning of the public service, whether it is emergency medical assistance, whether it is home assistance, whether it is social services or services or do not give God to firefighters or any interventions, the availability of apartments is very important from that position. Well, come on, we want to encourage people in the ministry to do it as best as possible, and to ensure as much resources as possible. Some estimates are that the entire project in Croatia would be worth around 580m euros. We would all be happy if this and 250 started, so let's keep doing it in some new EU financial period, but it's important to start to think that people can enjoy their elevator for life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77884	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77885	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77886	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today is Europe Day and the Day of Victory over Fascism, the day we celebrate the victory of freedom. We experience this victory of freedom in a way that the idea of freedom and is the right of every individual to live in a free and open society, an orderly country that respects the equality and equality of its citizens, in a country that promotes creativity and entrepreneurship. And now we come and we have to wonder if this country will still have enough people who will be able to consume their freedom, who will be able to consume their knowledge and who will be able to develop a free country where entrepreneurship, creativity, progress will be appreciated. We have been witnessing lately an awful lot of newspaper inscriptions and a desire to solve a project of demographic restoration or demographic revitalization, and whatever we want to call it, then we are witnessing that one project has a president, another project has a prime minister or government, and apparently they are secreting each other. The president doesn't want to tell the public until he tells the prime minister, and the prime minister doesn't want what the government is planning until he talks to the president and then young people go and their idea of freedom, their idea of creativity, their ideas, give their knowledge somewhere else. Let's all put our heads on the cup and say a few things honestly. When you enter any project, you have two models. You have a model to solve the piece by piece and you have a model to give the whole project. To give the whole project we missed at least a good 20, 30 years. So, we need to do a piece by piece, and we absolutely appreciate all the measures that you have the opportunity to see that we will have kindergartens that will have another working time because we all have other working hours, to help young families, to financially help when new ones are born, so young families have children, but it is all a drop in the sea. What we must advocate, we must advocate a project of demographic recovery for Croatia. Some countries have been through this, past Scandinavian countries, and I really need one of those who loves this model that works in Scandinavian countries, but absolutely aware of the fact that we are a different country, that we are different people, that Scandinavian countries in all these developments started on the basis of Protestantism, we are based on Catholic faith and on some other family values, thus rewriting someone's model is not possible. But to make one model that you're going to do now, and the results you see in 20 to 30 years isn't simple, it's hard, but it has to be a responsibility for us all. It must be the responsibility of the government, it must be the responsibility of all of us sitting in Parliament. And if there's something in this country that needs a consensus, and if there's something in this country that doesn't need elevated tones, they don't need... I'm sitting first or I think this is better or better and let's discuss who first thought, who was smarter, nicer, more successful, it's a demographic recovery project of the country. Because what we define and determine today we'll see the results, you know, in 20 to 30 years. What you can see and what is proposed are actually partial things and it is good that it is, but it is one serious project and it is expected from the ruling to really collect all the heads on the pile, not to watch who is where, to make one serious story and one serious project because the simple idea of freedom, the idea of development of society, is the question of who will be able to implement it more in Croatia and where people will be. So the idea of Europe is absolutely a good idea and good in terms of employment you try beyond your own framework and try out in some other conditions, but what we must be, we must be attractive to other people, and we can only invest in knowledge, investment in young people and make it really minute after twelve, make one project of demographic recovery of Croatia and not hide the project from one another.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77887	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77888	We're moving on. A colleague of Silvano Hrelja, a club of representatives of GLAS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77889	Dear Mr. Vice President, I have a petition from 66 sports fishermen and pensioners from Split who told me to send this five to the competent Ministry of Agriculture. It reads this way, not to interpret this petition, has been signed by sports fishermen and pensioners who have been engaged in recreational fishing for almost a lifetime. There are 66 of us, and we share the fact that we have bought our annual licenses for years on the same barracuda shop in Matejuški, Split. We were very unpleasantly surprised when we were told that a new Regulation on sports and recreational fishing for pensioners had entered into force and that we were too late, so we lost our ability to engage in sports that we normally do our whole life. Of course, we have a chance to buy daily permits or weeks or even monthly permits that are much more expensive than a year. Of course, we normal pensioners who have done our jobs fairly and because of the height of our pensions can't afford it. So, we ask that, to extend the time limit to some kind of, as they say, addition or decision to make the prolongat of this Regulation and as soon as possible, the new authorisation was issued by 1 March 2018. So far, all these years since the Republic of Croatia had no time limit for getting those permits. They could be removed at any time of the current year and were worth from 1 January to 31 December of the current year. The authors of this Regulation say that we had to get better information first. They should have known that old people in some way slave to their habits and that there are many reasons why people did not come to that information. It would be correct if all those users of those licences had been warned through their administrations that there had been an amendment to the Regulation and this would in some way be one orderly correspondence between the ministry and the users of certain licences. But that didn't happen. Furthermore, in the further text of this petition, they point to one possibility that with the adoption of this Regulation there has been a possible trade in these licences in such a way that sports fishing clubs immediately purchased a large number of annual sports licenses at the beginning of the year and that, most likely, we can't argue in advance, most likely sold to foreign tourists at more favourable prices or at some new prices where I don't know who will earn it. So these people, of course, are able to get a new rulebook. Of course, not by their own fault, so they had no information, the others were cut off for something that might have filled their home budget, it makes them happy because they have something that they can do in their spare time so they don't slave in front of the TV and be a slave to these day-to-day political events of ours. I think it's a lot healthier that they're at sea and they're kind of caught up and they feel useful, healthy and cheerful and happy. So we can't blame them. Therefore, I, from this place, will refer this petition to the competent ministry in the form of a representative issue, but I ask them at the Ministry of State from this place to have an understanding of the pensioners, according to sports fishermen, and not to be rigid in implementing or adopting regulations without people, that our citizens do not have adequate information. And what would be worse if a certain trade and a certain profit were made under the new Regulation and trade in annual licences or reselling annual fishing licences. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77890	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77891	Let's move on, now it's the GLAS and HSU Representative Club and Honorary Representative Anka Mrak Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77892	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we go out for this pay phone, everyone has a real right to express the views of their club, their personal opinions, each of us has a different rhetoric, but I am absolutely convinced that no one has the right to insult anyone. And it must not be a practice in this House of Highs, because then it will turn into a story, who is more or less insulting and it is simply not good and it is a bad message that we send, to all those who have patience to watch and listen to what I have to say. I'll go back to that topic, why I asked for a free speech, that is, what we had to say on behalf of the GLASs Club and HSU. Somewhere this fall, when it was current this morning, I asked Plenkovic's diameter, Mr. Prime Minister, are you satisfied, are you satisfied with where this country is going? And the move in its 4 minutes in a way that he normally knows how to die any debate, explained his great satisfaction, about how he leads the country, how he leads the government, and how the HDZ president leads the biggest parliamentary party. It was the moment the mayor who was a member of the HDZ then abused his wife. I was sure that the mayor's wife wasn't pleased with how far this country leads. The question that now for the diameter of this pay phone, the diameter, where are we going, how fast and how long will you lead as the diameter of this country? The theme of Agrokora is the topic we've been working on for a year. Not because it pleases or entertains us, but because it's a serious issue. And I can agree with the premiere and with the former Deputy Prime Minister, who says, we've been given a responsible task and we've begun to solve it. But when you get a responsible assignment and start solving, then you have a chance to take that opportunity or ruin it. The opportunity the diameter got ruined, Agrokor was created as a result of the crown capitalism. And what happened? Instead of taking advantage of the opportunity, taking advantage of it, ending this practice, it turned into the worst form of the practice. It was decided that a group of Borg, a group of individuals, would allow a new Agrokor or a new story. Therefore, privileged information for a group of boys called borg to do Agrokor, or to agree on the law, so that they could operate under that law. So the worst shape has turned. Not that she took advantage of the opportunity, but turned into something she certainly shouldn't have turned into. And what you can absolutely see from those e-mails, you don't have to read two, three e-mails, you can see the following, as first of all, that the Deputy Prime Minister has been saying all along, second of all from those e-mails, anyone who thinks otherwise, anyone who dares to reconsider any decision is talking humiliating about him, making fun of the citizens of the Republic because what you can do, so we are the few who decide what and how to go on. And third thing, imagine someone who's a minister and says, ah at the head of that ministry I'm going now to do something there to justify that this ministry exists. People my emails are a splash in the face of all of us sitting here, all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are doing their job responsibly because through these e-mails, so we're going to go to the side of our stories with Agrokor that you turn one group into another group, but those e-mails are actually a disgrace to Croatia, to this government and to the shame of all of us sitting here. And now we have two things that are trying to justify themselves, we have stability and we have reforms that are coming. Now, this lady of reform is neither knocking on the doors of the government nor knocking on the doors of this House, and even less will live in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77893	Now let's go to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Bues Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77894	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, candidates for a new member of the government and a new Deputy Prime Minister will be in front of the relevant parliamentary committees. It is an opportunity to wonder what the government's policy is at the most sensitive moment since the start of its mandate. What the government actually brings as guarantees in this now process that it monitors, monitors and how the potentially biggest crisis, not only of the economic but also of the political system in Croatia, is treated. It is essential that a fair and sustainable settlement be reached in the case of Agrokor. Not only because of the stability of the economic system and the preservation of jobs, but also because it will be a paradigm where the entire level of responsibility will be measured. There is no doubt that the Hotmail affair, which has completely shaken the government, which killed all its legitimacy, legitimacy in terms of declared values and those defined as priorities in the Presidency of the Council of Europe, among which, above all, the fight against corruption, will have no doubt that the Hotmail affair will have its epilogue outside the media. We already see this by the reactions and procedures initiated by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the Croatian Bar of Law, as well as the announcements from the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. USKOK. It was an ideal opportunity, an ideal opportunity, so when we talk about the crisis created in Agrokor and everything that it has caused Croatia to break up once and for all with the roof capitalism model that brought it to such a low level of social development, I would say the primitiveization of the entire society, the flowering of corruption and all that it generates, but it was actually opposed to that roof capitalism model by the same model. The Hotmail affair showed that in resolving this issue of states, declaring its responsibility for the entire system and stability of the economic order, it relied on nothing but a partner approach and a partner model that actually led to all this. If that weren't the case, if the paradigm had changed, if this had gotten into this, so to solve the Agrokor problem from a whole new position, from a sincere starting point of view to changing such a situation, we would have a lot more optimism, like this on behalf of the GLAS and the Croatian party of pensioners, showing the highest possible level of skepticism according to the results we expect from both the administration and the other actors that sponsor it. We warn that it is a primary, top-level, ultimate case that can explode into our faces in the middle of the tourist season. We hope that the highest level of responsibility will be shown to optimise the objectives in the settlement process, but unfortunately we no longer trust this government, we do not believe among other things that the prime minister did not find appropriate from the moment this story of Hotmail exploded, to address the Croatian Parliament, to preserve the dignity of the institution run by both the authority of the highest and key place of executive authority in the Republic of Croatia. There may be an opportunity to ask him for heroic health when presenting new members of the government, but we call for common sense, we call for you also ruling. Regardless of what is in our interest, it is in our interest for you to split up, disintegrate and fall apart, to show the highest level of political responsibility for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77895	Thank you, well-respected President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So this morning, or we don't call it the possibility of talking on behalf of clubs anymore, but we're talking about free speech, so obviously we've literally figured it out, so here's each of our discussions is different, and we're going to have the opportunity to really talk and say what's holding us back. I would take advantage of this debate, or the possibility of speaking about a priority that is related and a common denominator has a demographic renewal. Since very often I also think in pictures and speak in pictures, it is like a dam in which you have a small hole, no one has closed that hole, the water goes on and on because of course the inevitable is going and at some point that hole will become so big that no one will be able to close it and the dam will eventually break. What am I saying? For years, the process of change and population in the Republic of Croatia, first it was the process where we went from village to towns where our villages were left without people, went to cities at some other time, now the exit, or departure of the working population from the Republic of Croatia to abroad, when we look at the scales, then according to some indicators the Republic of Croatia is near the end, and the percentage of the working population of the Republic of Croatia is working outside the Republic of Croatia in third place. And that just means that it needs to work and that we need to know that the alarm is no longer just to warn us, but to play and not to stop playing. And in the context of this, the president and prime minister found themselves, agreed on a joint cabinet session and a debate on demographic renewal. And now we're going to see when this government session is going to be and obviously one project has a president, another project has a prime minister, and the thing is that when you look a little bit, other countries have gone through it, other countries have faced it sooner or later, and they're going into a really fierce battle with that problem and they're going to solve it. The first thing they started to do was work legislation, it means facilitating work, enabling work, enabling retraining, schooling and becoming a country that is interesting and foreign labour. In Croatia, we have not seen this effort for the time being, regarding labour legislation, we have seen in this House individual demands of individual and parliamentary representatives and clubs coming from the opposition side and of course when it comes, then ruling or considering, but immediately they reject it all together and vote that it cannot go any further. But I'd like to order the following from this pay phone. It's really not a good situation. We can take individual measures, but it's like burning fire, and you've got one pot and you've only managed to get rid of those fires. Today we will have the afternoon and debate, i.e. an amendment to the laws where the increase in children's allowances is. Anything that can help our citizens for any age of life is good, and that is clear to say that it is good. But it should also be said that it's just a resolution at this point, and the problem is much bigger, in other words, what do I mean? We urgently need the measures of demographic recovery, or recovery, to be systematic, should be far-reaching, first and foremost made possible and tied to labour legislation, and then all other things. So what is important for Croatia to be desirable for the citizens of Croatia, to stay there, to increase the opportunity for employers to pay salaries and of course, then it is back to living and all other benefits. The president also said she wanted a consensus. Consensus would be welcome. But I'm asking you, is the consensus possible and I have to refer to one reply from the government that I received last week, the question to the government was very simple, how many state officials, or state secretaries and assistants in all ministries, and the answer was the following. You can go to the Ministry's website and then you can count it, or you can go to the Committee's website to prevent conflicts of interest, so with certain links you can come up with that. I think that answer is absolutely inadmissible and points to the fact that we want to have a consensus on some things is just a dead letter on paper, not a reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77896	Thank you. Honorable MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, good morning. We're going back to work. First as always Wednesdays, first work in the week. As for the plenary session, we have a free speech. There's been six clubs. Have you called before or haven't you? ... Then I ask you to file an application, it's six, so we're on our way, who wants to get back to you, please sign up in the next five minutes. [[You can't hear it.]] The first is a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77898	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will use these five minutes to say something about what is going on in the city of Zagreb. There is currently a devastation of one of the most important objects in the city of Zagreb. So, if either of us were to wake up at midnight or early in the morning to say, three or five of the most important objects in the city of Zagreb, which is in our memory, it would be a very high-ranking cathedral, Jelačić plac, Zrinjevac and, of course, Meštrović pavilion located on the market of victims of fascism or Pavilion of Croatian art artists. We who live in the city of Zagreb have the opportunity to see Mr. Mayor manage the city. We're used to a lot of things. But what is happening is unprecedented. It's about a protected facility, it's about him being specially registered, it's about the law on the protection of cultural goods saying that when you're doing something on such an object and on that plot, then you need to have prior approval of what administrative procedure is, which of course you're not. And what's going on? The green was first removed, and something was removed from the green when I told people at all, no one believes it happened. So Meštrovic's pavilion was made in a way that we had a postament of three large steps on which to sit. Those stairs were made of blocks of matrimonial stone. Those blocks of Brač stone have been removed, and now there's hair and what's going to be done? The new stairs will be paved into a stone that is from the Vrsina area, so not far from the town of Vrsi, so not far from Zadar. Something that's unremembered. What would we think of anyone who would come before the photo of Mona Lisa and say that the haircut Mona Lisa has isn't exactly appropriate and should be changed. You know what they'd think of that. That's exactly what's happening in the city of Zagreb. First the green was removed, then this postament was removed. Several laws have been broken. First, the city of Zagreb is working on an property that is not its own, but the property of the Republic of Croatia, asking whether something regulated orally agreed, so that we know for the future only if it is a method of conduct, then there is an oral agreement so that it will no longer need consent and everything else. The second thing, based on the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, is to carry out a procedure that has not been implemented. The entire public and the whole profession are shouting, warning, she's criminally reporting the mayor for what happened and what happened? Nothing. The answer is given to “the mayor of the work. ” Now, I'm asking you, if any of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were doing such a thing on the facility where he lives, or if any institution were doing it on an object where, let's say, all of a sudden in the Parliament, we agreed that this front desk that's on the Assembly or I don't know, it's really no way in, it would be good to put a plastic carpenter, let's say it's covered because that would be much better. That's what we're talking about. The state is alarming. After the committee of the City Assembly carried out the session, it reached conclusions, our mayor strengthened it, so you had a chance yesterday or yesterday to see that the green area had turned into a parking lot, that some 10 cars had been parked in that parking lot. An HDZ colleague, every time you get out of HDZ out, you have to keep your eyes shut so you don't see that devastation. Every time you come out of the HDZ space, you see it directly. Mr Bandić is your coalition partner at both national and city level in Zagreb. When someone's a thief, someone's holding the lottery. He's just as guilty as the one who's a thief. It is therefore your responsibility, the responsibility of what is happening in the city of Zagreb, the responsibility for the absolute damage that has been done. The damage was done. When you ask the profession what to do, then the profession says, stop the works, the conservative goes out and see how it can be solved. In doing so, I did not even ask the question of where the blocks of the marriage stone ended, were carried away at night, and what was happening to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77899	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77900	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will begin with work and as usual, will first be the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and the first Club of Representatives will be the Living Wall and SNAGA in the name of which the Honored Representative Ivan Willibor Sinčić will speak. He's not here. Unfortunately, he's losing his right to speak. Can I help you, my colleague, please? ... Unfortunately, I've already called him, haven't I? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next Club of Representatives is the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77901	Good morning, all of you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There is one of the EU's golden rules and something that was the reason and when we entered the EU, one of the things that we characterised as an advantage, which is freedom of movement of goods and people. Even though our president claims that she was misquoted or something else, that is not so, we all had the opportunity to hear what she said and that is one of the advantages, but at this point we see in Croatia only as a possibility, i.e. the fact that our fellow citizens, that young people with whole families are leaving Croatia. And not only because they are small salaries or because they are not employed, but because Croatia does not offer hope and because they feel bad here. In the context of this, we have a situation at EU level, we have migration, we have migrations that are economic, we have migrations that are due to certain situations in certain countries, and what experts are announcing, announcing and climate migration. So climate change is a fact, climate change is something that exists and it would be very, very good to listen to experts, experts warn in time, experts are saying, but this is what, in one ear, comes out to another because now you need to find solutions and now you need to give answers. Equally, we have an opportunity to announce in the press where Minister Pavic says there has never been any more means of employment. Croatia should finally become a friend to its fellow citizens, a friend to its citizens in a way that enables them to be safe, to provide them with a stable job, to make them pay higher. But also Croatia in terms of the flow of goods, in terms of freedom of movement, in terms of migration should become and desirable that some people on the road to Europe stay there, stay alive. We've opened a license for 40,000 new jobs this year. Experts, let's finally listen to them, say it will take 100,000 jobs in Croatia next year. And in the context of this, this government should finally sit down with Prime Minister Plenkovic at the helm and Minister Pavic, who is in charge and see what we have. We in Croatia at the moment, it is like the introduction to the Law on Student Affairs where I will talk about it in more detail, we have people who are unemployed over 50 years of life who want to work, they need to be requalified. We have pensioners who want to work and who can do occasional jobs. And what should urgently be agreed by legislation in a way that requalification of any employer is not a burden, that occasional jobs done by pensioners are not a burden and in this sense should go to changes to the law that Minister Maric is preparing, so that first and foremost we become, to hire what we can really hire on our labour market, to become friends with our citizens through the whole climate that needs to be changed because the one who has the opportunity to get a much better paid job out there, we cannot prevent it but we can ensure that someone else comes here and wars and in this sense needs to create a new climate but also in terms of immigration. We should not look and be afraid whether Croatia will be a hot spot or not because it certainly will not be or should be. However, all these flows towards Germany, according to Scandinavia, Croatia should finally understand that its workforce should be found elsewhere. So to be a friend to our fellow citizens, to allow what we have to work and to start working, to see little bit how some other countries have done but also this migration crisis which is and which experts say is the next climate, which will be a lasting and question of which reasons, to see where benefit is and the benefit for Croatia and not only as a trafficler to keep that sign and to be a trafficler on that road to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77902	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77903	We're going to a third debate right now. GLAS and HSU representatives' club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77904	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Every city has its own points of events or places that are specific. In Zagreb, one of the specific places is Markov Square. In Mark's square we have the Government, we have the Constitutional Court, we have the state parliament, and we have the second largest parliament in the country, and this is the Zagreb City Assembly. And so it's a hill, given the things that are happening, I don't think we can even talk about a hill, but rather about a basement in terms of democracy that we have. Last week was the Zagreb City Assembly where for the first time since we had Croatia, and this is how we function, what happened was that by ruling in the Zagreb City Assembly, they decided that the opposition could not speak. And what can't we talk about? We can't talk about the works that happen in Fascism Square, the works that happen on Meštrovic's Pavilion, and no matter what we want to call him because it's not good to talk about. In doing so, we need to know that there are coalitions that are the same in this House, the same in the city congregation. It is a coalition that makes all other partners HDZ and Club Bandic Milan 365 in this Assembly, and equally HDZ independent of Croatia and Bandic Milan 365 in the city assembly. With an explanation why this opposition can't talk about it, he says because everything was done there, so why would you talk about it because there's no need to talk. The opposition in the city assembly was silent all day Thursday. All the opposition MPs went out for a pay phone and used their time in the way they ruled and told us, which is not to be said. Our esteemed President of the Parliament has started this session by congratulating our football players and should really congratulate them. There is a danger after the games that will be today and tomorrow that Croatia may remain the only country that represents the African continent at the football championship. Equally what happened in the city hall of Zagreb, it shows that North Korea is doing some steps, so their leader is meeting with Trump, and we in the town hall were forbidden to speak. Why were we banned from speaking? Because we pointed out that with Meštrovic's pavilion there are illegal actions going on, that it's a devastation. Just for you to figure it out. 204 pillars each weigh about a ton, so 200 tons of Brač stone is taken somewhere, we do not know where and will be replaced by 200 tons of another stone. The pillars for Meštrovic's pavilion don't go to Bauhaus and you say give me 200 pillars. They must kneel in a special quarry under special conditions, and everyone is grumbling about it. In this regard, in Fascism victims' market, we should not forget that HDZ headquarters is. So, colleagues from HDZ who are in coalition with Mr Milan Bandic and the Assembly and the City Assembly must be very aware of the devastation that has been made. Devastations that are permanent, devastations on which you grumble and silently approve. We just wanted to talk about it. You can vote any way you like. You can show through the vote that it's ideal for you. But Club Bandic Milan 365 came out and said we have nothing to talk about. Equally the coalition partners gave their hand there. Look at the wonders, yesterday the congregation continues, continues with another point around which coalition and ruling cannot agree, and then there are not enough. It is clear that 27 people in the city congregation are the majority. After the opposition leaves the congregation and says, "My boys, I want you to agree on that point any way you want to, they don't have enough." And who's to blame for leaving the city hall? Not ruling, not having enough and not being able to make a decision, but an opposition. That parliament is diagonal of this parliament. Everything that happens in this parliament has a consequence for all other parts of Croatia. As is happening in this House, there are consequences for the municipalities and cities, as it happens in the Parliament of the assembly, or in the assembly of the city of Zagreb, there is a consequence. For the first time, the opposition in the Zagreb City Assembly is forbidden to speak because she wanted to talk about the devastion, about illegal actions, that nothing is sacred in this city, that ruling for the need of Mr. Milan Bandić's hand will grumble at everything that's going on and the question is what's next? Therefore, those things that happen in parliament are not good. Democracy should be developed, but in democracy. You can't take someone's right to speak. It happened in the Zagreb City Assembly and the message is, don't let that happen again. The message is and North Korea is opening up and trying to take a step forward, and we are so happy to take a step back and go into some hopelessness from which it will take years and years to get out of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77905	The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU, on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77906	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have reported this free speech in front of the GLAS and HSU Club for a reason I would like to remind you that between HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia there is a certain contract guaranteeing between other social groups and pensioners the appropriate time to discuss their problems about their creation, their recreational activities. Even in one article of the contract, the law states that they should also produce certain emissions by experiencing their lifetime in their own way and showing it as much as they do to the Croatian public. However, we have a different situation on HRT, namely the HRT, there is a so-called "Hurt". The summer scheme, in this summer scheme, seems that, according to the summer scheme, pensioners don't exist over the summer because there's not one term reserved for specialized shows that would talk about pensioners' problems, pensioners' lives, I repeat again about their association, about their creation. So just over the summer it looks like the pensioners are in charge of guarding their grandchildren or keeping their estates while the younger ones go somewhere on vacation, etc. There's no show on HRT. Now, if that were to happen, maybe if all of this were to come together on the National Council for Retired and Older Persons, and if it were to be said okay, we'd give you in the second part of the year or in two-thirds of the year, we'd give you an hour and a half a week to come up with some shows, maybe it would work, but no. It's HRT's practice, we've had a summer scheme, and since then, there's been no show for the pensioners. We are aware that there are certain announcements of pension reform, although for those who are retired and for those pensioners nothing will happen, they have their own solution, but I do not want to believe that these pensioners who are now in retirement are unsatisfactory with their future colleagues and that they are not at all wondering how they will be retired tomorrow, whether they will have the same rights, it is their relatives, it is their children, therefore I think it would be useful and in certain specialized emissions for pensioners to be processed at all, but when pension reform is announced at this time, especially if it is in consultation with the interested public during the summer, and as announced only in 9 months it will be in government, or sent to the Croatian Parliament for first reading. I think that part, this dimension of public debate on the public media, is missing for such difficult games or for such difficult contents during the summer period, so I appeal to the government to influence, through their levers towards HRT, or to change that summer scheme, or that pensioners have their own specialized emissions throughout the year or to agree differently on a national council for pensioners or elderly persons, or that such difficult topics as the announcement of pension reform are not being released during this period when there is no specialized emissions for pensioners. We need to be civilised society, we need to talk about everything, and we need to make arrangements, so I don't blame anyone, but I appeal that we make arrangements not to leave people, our citizens who are the most regular paid all possible bills, not to put them in a second-rate position and says here for them in the summer there are no relevant topics. I'm saying, please consider this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u77907	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78399	Now, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 132. to 139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session prior to the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions is MP Veljko Kajtazi and he asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78400	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, your government adopted an operational programme for national minorities last August, including a special operational programme for the Roma national minority. The document has been working for almost a year and it is a fundamental document on which my support for your government is based. The operational programmes have clearly defined the activities, the deadlines in which these activities are to be carried out, and for which the competent authorities, ministries and agencies have been designated. They were previously with all operators of the activity of a particular finding, and the government unanimously adopted operational programmes. Dear Mr Plenkovic, in an operational programme for the Roma national minority, almost all deadlines have been broken. A certain operator, as the Ministry of Culture, opposes the implementation of activities for which they are in charge, and there are also no means to implement most of the activities, and we still do not have a legal framework to carry out some activities. Given that the first report on the implementation of the operational programme is planned for March, and that the situation as I state it, what are you planning to do to finally start with the full implementation agreed in the operational programmes, to take over the implementation of agreed activities, and to provide them with a legal and financial framework?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78401	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78402	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I welcome you at the beginning of another session of the Croatian Parliament and I thank the representative Katazia for this important issue concerning operational programmes for national minorities, especially for the Roma minority. First of all, as Prime Minister and Head of the ruling coalition, I appreciate the support of minorities in the Croatian Parliament, our government and our participation in the work of our parliamentary majority. I think with this support you gave an important political signal, that minorities in the Republic of Croatia form an important component of Croatian society and should be perceived in the most constructive way, to contribute to the overall improvement, but also to protect the identity of all minorities in the Republic of Croatia. We worked together to develop a programme and operational programme that is important for minority rights, it was agreed at inter-resor level, you personally participated in it, you know that in 2018 we had as much as 1080 cultural autonomy programmes reported by minority communities in the Republic of Croatia, 106 associations and institutions. We have also foreseen 32 million kunas for achieving cultural autonomy in the 2018 budget. The Roma national minority in 2017 was allocated something under a million kuna, in 2018 over a million kuna. I believe that the number of competitions opened, including this public invitation, for programming, professional, and financial support from last month for the education of children, for the education of pupils, members of the Roma minority, is extremely important, and I believe that you and all representatives of the Roma minority will use it. We want you to get involved in everything that can contribute to both school and preschool education, that members of the Roma minority, as long as possible, remain fully within the education system. That's our common goal, we talked about it on a number of occasions at our meetings and co-ordinations. In the school year, the Ministry of Science and Education, the current one, approved in its implementation action plan and the Roma strategy the co-financing of the costs of pre-school child rearing, a member of the Roma national minority. A number of other ministries, including the Ministry of Culture, including the co-ordinator for these issues in the government, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Marija Pejcinović Buric, has an open door, it is a reference point for all issues concerning the operational programme. The funds in the budget are allocated, if there are certain segments of the programme and priorities, which you as a representative of the Roma minority, you see that they are not yet fully rounded up, the government will, in turn, in view of everything you think should be realised, strive to find, adequate, legal project and financial framework for the implementation of that programme. I think that by looking at, we have established a very high-quality dialogue, understanding, that we have put emphasis on solving projects of all national minorities, including Roma, at a higher level, we will continue to do so and I urge you to step up this dialogue, either directly with me, with either the Deputy Prime Minister or any of the competent ministers or ministers, who must help resolve this issue. Our political commitment to solving all projects related to the Roma minority remains solid and unchanged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78403	Thank you. I'd just like to say hello to my classmates and students from Chazama High School, who are with us, please welcome them. ... Here you go, buddy Kajtazi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78404	Dear Mr Plenkovic, I cannot say that I am pleased, with your answer, because of the problem we have, and that is all we agree, everything you say very clearly in the Croatian Parliament or in our markings, and ultimately, confirm in documents of the Government, such as operational programmes, ministries and ministers, do not take it seriously enough. I will bear in mind that there is a first report on the implementation of the operational programme, which I expected very much from. I expect that the ministers and ministries that are the bearer of the activity should be further encouraged to, where necessary, ensure in the state budget the funds in a timely manner and, where appropriate, to initiate and speed up the amendment of the legal framework for certain activities. It is unacceptable that, in my meetings, with ministers, I must discuss the justification for the implementation of certain activities, if they are agreed almost in a year, and later unanimously voted at government meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78405	We are now moving on to question 2, honourable representative Marija Jelkovac, asking the question of the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the economy of entrepreneurship and crafts, Martini Dalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78406	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Vice President of the Government. Here, a year ago, he threatened the Croatian economy with a collapse that would have caused the bankruptcy of Agrokora, primarily because there were over 70 companies and legal entities in its composition, which would have been directly threatened by that bankruptcy, because even those companies would have to be subject to bankruptcy proceedings. By the bankruptcy of Agrokor, there were also 28000 jobs at risk. The bankruptcy of Agrokor companies would probably mean the bankruptcy of a number of suppliers, and that would potentially mean jeopardising stability and the financial system, as well as the state budget, because of huge costs, and would also endanger taxpayers. The government's obligation is to protect both economic systems and to take care of the public interest of the welfare of citizens, and therefore the government has also proposed that the Emergency Procedure Act be adopted by the Emergency Administration Act, in companies of major importance for the Republic of Croatia, whose primary objective was to stabilise the business of all companies in the Agrokora system and to preserve jobs above all. As things stand today, Agrokor, actively manages its liquidity, is paid 490m euros, border and old debt to suppliers, on the day of April 9, this year, the balance of funds in Agrokor accounts is about a billion and a half kuna. And the situation a year ago on the day of April 10, 2017 was only 6 kn. The government's meeting also presented a report on the extraordinary administration's procedure in Agrokor, which announced that the credentials' principle agreement on key elements of the settlement had been reached. A draft was signed. So the extraordinary administration procedure gives results, goes to its own time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78407	Thank you. It's almost time. Here you go, Comrade Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78408	Dear Mrs Jelkovac, in the context of what you have said at this time is that the principle agreement on the settlement reached by the creditors represents one of the essential steps and I would say a capital step towards the completion of the overall procedure of the extraordinary administration and towards the return of the system of Agrokor normal business. Of course, there's still a lot of work to do in front of the extraordinary administration. This principle agreement should be transposed into a legal document which will then be submitted to the court and on which the creditors will vote. However, what the principle agreement contains contains is an Agreement on Important Capital Issues, which concerns the agreement of the creditors that Agrokor will work in the future, in which way the future ownership structure will be determined, or how the creditors will be charged. Since the huge debts of 57 billion kuna are obviously not going to be charged in money, then the current creditors will be charged in part from ownership, part of a new debt to be set up at the level of the new company, and the rest of the debt will be written off. The particularly important content of this agreement also includes a deal with suppliers that will pay 80m euros to be paid in the next four years. the border debt, and the way future owners of Agrokora will ensure that there is co-operation between Agrokor and its current suppliers and Croatian industry. Little has been said about this these days, but the agreement also contains a provision on the retention of all work contracts, which means that jobs are secured and that all current jobs will be preserved in the new system. I think this must be one of the capital steps in the whole process. The previous two were related to maintaining business and stabilising business. It was, of course, the beginning of the extraordinary administration itself and the insurance of payouts and the launch of business. The second was certainly the insurance of new funding that enabled and ensured that the overall process of stabilising Agrokor did not fall on the burden of taxpayers. This is the third significant step, the third cornerstone in the success of this process and the fourth will, of course, be the completion of the extraordinary administration. What I am saying at this point is that all the results of the extraordinary administration process so far show that the systemic risks that have arisen for the entire economy, which could have been caused by the uncontrolled bankruptcy of Agrokor, have been overcome, and that, in this final phase, the legal conclusion of the credentials' agreement, provided for the normal operations of Agrokor in the future with new owners. But I expect on much more high-quality business grounds, on much more high-quality market bases in which non-payments will never be repeated again, inadmissible long payment deadlines and inadmissible small dependence on large in a way that is not based on market relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78409	Thank you. Appreciation of Representative Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78410	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Here I am pleased with the answer, although I haven't been able to ask the question until the end of time, I think you've done a very complex job and it's most important that jobs are preserved and everything is going according to plan, the completion of this very complicated process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78411	Thank you. Third question respected representative Maria Puh. The question raises the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Predrag Štromar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78412	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, 300 active rinks, 65 skates endanger housing. 29 slides endanger economic facilities, 194 slides endanger unclassified roads and the total estimated damage is more than 174 million kuna. This data I have now provided is only data for the Krapina-Zagorian County. So we see according to the latest news and unfortunately the events that took place in Croatia Kostajnica that it is not just Krapina-Zagorje County, the county that has been hit by the rinks and that it is not only the north of Croatia that has so far been let's say more hit. So now we have in almost all of Croatia the appearances of the slides, the occurrences of the slopes and the problems of that kind. This year, for the first time, when the Ministry of Civil Engineering turned on and provided certain funds to repair the damage from the ice skating site, amounting to 10 million kuna, with the fact that I have provided you with this information that is only for the Krapina-Zagorje County and that this problem is really big and that it is huge amounts and that new damages are reported almost daily and new skating sites I am aware that the funds that have been provided so far are not sufficient. Please inform us of the programmes and measures to be implemented and to be implemented in order to address the problems caused by slides and slides themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78413	Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78414	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pooh. Here's what I have to say is that this government is the first one to recognize, but the first one to respond to the skating problems of the Republic of Croatia. These problems have long been present in this society, especially in northern Croatia, especially in the hilly part of Croatia, but no one has responded adequately. We're like the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78415	.../Intruder Jandroković: colleagues, forgive the Vice President, colleagues and colleagues I ask that we behave politely, speak very loudly, shout, we cannot work in this atmosphere. Please let the Deputy Prime Minister speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78416	We, as the Government, have also provided funds in the Croatian Roads for the rehabilitation of state roads with a model slide, as well as on the basis of your amendments. We in the Ministry of Construction have provided 10 million kunas for municipalities and cities for the rehabilitation of all those roads that belong to them, which are currently not passing that road and I must say that there have been many municipalities and cities and there is a need for 67 million kuna. So the needs are high, the funds haven't been secured so far. We especially know the problem that happened in Croatia Kostajnica when this government responded within 48 hours with the conclusion that it will resuscitate or provide a new housing issue for every citizen who has suffered there, but I must point out, it is not only for those affected by this rink in Croatia Kostanica, but in the whole country. Soon we will give new proposals to the government where we will detail how we will address a permanent housing issue, and I must say that all temporary housing issues have been resolved. This government has a sense of this problem and we will continue to work to respond and address these problems. We also have a good situation in Croatian waters and together with Minister Čorić and Director, the Director-General of Croatian Waters, we also ensure that Croatia's waters participate with their water contribution budget in order to open a tender for all municipalities, for all cities and to repair all the damages that have taken place. According to these latest indicators, we're going to have to invest about 150 million kuna in the next two to three years, and I have to say that we're going to secure those funds, that we're going to resuscitate all the slides, and that's a dozen times as much as we're going to invest from any government so far that we're going to try to solve a particular issue in each part of the Republic. We repeat, we will solve all these problems, all these issues across the country, no matter where these problems are, where they happen and we will provide housing for all those citizens who have a problem with their housing issues on all the slides. And I congratulate you on all of your activities that you're doing precisely for this problem that you've handled well and represent the citizens in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78417	Comrade Pooh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78418	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply. All those funds that you said, we have already been able to agree and secure in the budget even before the events that took place in Croatia Kostanica, but we have now become aware of an even bigger dimension of the problem that arises almost all over Croatia. What definitely didn't work out for us, which is this strong winter this year with a lot of snow and after the melting of that snow, there's been a lot of new openings and a lot of new situations on the ground that aren't very nice. I've had a chance to visit some houses that literally people live in a house that doesn't have a wall, they've built a wall in some way temporarily with nylon and they've put a curtain on the inside. I think that all people affected by this skating problem must have equal access and everyone must have equal protection and we must treat them equally and I hope that all of these projects that we have provided so far, and we must think about the future that all of them will have the necessary protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78419	The fourth question, respected advocate Bernarda Topolko, asks the Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78420	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Divjak, we witness every day the attacks on you and on your team by business entities to marginal extreme groups that want to stop the reform. Teachers for the experimental phase of curricula reform of the School of Life began on Monday. Can you explain to us whether everything will be ready by autumn, from educated teachers to money so that the school year can start okay? I'm also interested, and there have been reports of a large number of schools that have failed to enter this experimental group, do you plan or have any plans for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78421	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78422	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Madam Representative, for this matter. True, experimental program The School of Life enters Croatian schools in classrooms and 72 schools throughout Croatia. 46 primary schools, 26 secondary schools are already being educated, 1500 teachers, teachers, professional associates, directors and included in the program, i.e. we will start with this programme in the autumn for 8500 students. In this sense, I can truly guarantee that everything will be ready and that we will also work on education, on the preparation of materials, on the equipment of schools, and that, of course, it is all in line with the government's work programme and all those indicators that I am now talking about and all that we are planning to do is put into the National Reform Plan. In total, 215 schools, home schools plus so many other district schools were registered, we chose 72 schools in a way that each county had at least two schools in that programme. Equally, we have about two-thirds of the primary, one-third of the secondary schools and schools in larger cities, in rural areas, in smaller cities, higher schools, smaller schools. And in that sense, I think we have a good sample and we're going to be able to track the success of this experimental program of ours. Because the success of the experimental program is not only that we customized curricula, teaching materials, digital content we test in schools but that we are able to assess what else to do, what to fix to make sure that when we enter frontal into all schools that it will really be so that the outcomes of learning will be good and that we will succeed in achieving what we seek and it is a school for life because it is only a society that teaches, an individual who learns actually has a chance at this time, in this society of rapid changes, especially rapid technological changes. Now we do as I said in the education of teachers and other associates in five on line environments and in the first 48 hours we have over 1200 teachers, teachers in our on-line environments. Of course, besides these on-line environments will be workshops, professional visits to schools, digital educational facilities have been prepared and over 20 mentors are already working fully on mentoring our teachers and schools and will also be organized and visits and workshops in schools themselves. The total number of advisers will be around 150 counselors who will work and prepare schools when we go along with the curricula in question. There is also an invitation to tender for experimental textbooks and content, the deadline for handover for publishers is 1.5., we already have announcements that we will have, that means we will have what textbooks in physical form and what these digital contents are because the goal is also to disburse the school bag easier and in a literal sense in order to provide digital educational content and also to ensure the dispensation of the facts and fact-finding knowledge, unnecessary knowledge for our students. All of these educations and all of these facilities, especially methodical manuals will be available for these 215 schools, means all 215 schools, not only for experimental schools and I am sure that those who have not applied to this program will also be included and that we will thus really build a society that teaches both students and teachers who learn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78423	Thank you. Comrade Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78424	I thank you for your response to Minister Divjak. I am pleased with the answer, the more the other schools will be involved and who have not moved on to this competition of the school for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78425	Question No. 5. Honored representative Boris Milosevic, sets up the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78426	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and Minister. I refer the issue to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and it is related to the situation and investment in transport infrastructure in areas of special state concern. While we wait for systematic measures and new measures for these areas to improve living conditions, especially as we wait for the Law on Supported Areas, citizens in these areas do not have adequate access to electricity, they do not have adequate access to water, they do not have adequate transport infrastructure. For example, in Veljun, citizens have been waiting for almost 4 years for the bridge over the Koran, the bridge that took the flood to 2014 to get to Karlovac, they have to go around 50km. If you'd like to go over the Koran, I can only take one boat that drives like that. So I can't be serious about agriculture, I can't be serious about rural tourism. On the other hand, on the other side of a particular road in the area, just in the area of the county of Karlovac, for example Jasenak Drežnica is in such a catastrophic state that it simply crys for recovery. My question is the respected minister when the bridge will finally be finished, all the permits and all the documentation has been removed, and what can the State or the Ministry do to make roads like this one I mentioned be rescheduled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78427	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78428	Thank you, Your Honor, for your question. Croatian roads and the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure work on several infrastructure projects today in Croatia located in areas of special state concern, if we want to call them that. A concrete bridge in Veljun, I personally spent a year and a half a year ago in that position where the bridge was to be made and I saw what you said about people to get to the state road must go around 40 to 50km and the fact is that the need to build that bridge is unquestionable. Croatian roads have produced project documentation, called for a tender, agreed on that bridge, its total value is about 5 million kuna without VAT and at this point around 40% of the works were carried out on the bridge itself, but due to floods, melting snow and weather conditions could not be worked on the bridge itself lately, now the situation is significantly different and better and will continue to work and I believe that this year we can expect and should be finished that bridge. The bridge also includes access roads leading to the state road and at the moment the contract annex is in preparation, the total value of the works on those access roads is about one million and 100 thousand kunas so that that part will also be solved and access roads. As for the other roads in the area of Karlovac County, mainly county roads they are not in the management of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, nor the Croatian roads but are in the county's control, but in the last 2017, we provided an additional 15.5 million kuna to the Karlovac County Road Administration. We will do this this year, because this government for the first time realized the problem and the lack of income from the county road administrations, so here in the Croatian Parliament, you have provided an additional 100 million kuna budget for the past year, so that this 15.5 million kuna last year, this year already comes from the intervention funds around 8 million kuna. We are in the discussion that these funds are now aimed at solving critical county roads that are sufficient in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Some parliamentary representatives were with me then in Velion, a colleague of Pupovac and introduced me to the situation, but here, a little more patience, the weather conditions were such that the work could not be completed. They will finish, as I said in response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78429	Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78430	Dear Minister, I thank you for your reply and I can express my satisfaction. I can't fully express my satisfaction. The fact is that what you have just said and what you are aware of, and what some in the assembly have said about it, my satisfaction is not entirely expressed precisely for the reason that we do not have a systematicly resolved financing, therefore, of the county road administrations, precisely in those areas that are poorly populated, which have, therefore, counties that are poorly populated, and have a very large mileage actually to maintain and perhaps it would be good if the government or in fact your Ministry had thought and considered that 10 lips per sold... So, one solution that existed before and that went, as an income to the county road management, to actually return to the Law on the Roads and to actually get rid of the financing systematically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially, I say, these... which cover and maintain poorer counties that are less populated, do not have a very large number of miles to maintain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78431	Let's go to question number six. Dear Representative Ines Strenja-Linic asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78432	Dear Mr. Plenkovic. I refer to the current situation in Uljanik, i.e. on May 3rd and today, the New List said that criminal charges were filed against those responsible on May 3rd, against those responsible in Uljanik and I received as a parliamentary representative who came from Rijeka, a copy and criminal charges anonymously, and, as I see, in those to whom it was delivered, it was also delivered to you. So I refer to this situation as a dictionary, as someone who is really interested in the situation that happens on May 3rd, which reflects the situation that is currently in Uljanik. I also warned about this in November 2017, after which this whole story actually started and apparently had reason to open the story to Uljanika. Therefore, the anonymous criminal application published today in the New List speaks of a reasonable suspicion of committing a criminal offence of the abuse of trust in economic business, as a result of how much it is said about business malversions, the conduct of business books and irregularities in the restructuring process. Shipbuilding is a question and national interest of the Republic of Croatia and we all really need what is happening in Croatian shipbuilding. Therefore, in the findings of the state audit over several years, the possible illegal behaviour of the responsible persons in these companies, therefore to Uljanik and 3 May, and the Republic of Croatia should be very interested since the word of about 26% of the state co-ownership in the company Uljanik, who owns the 3rd of May. It should also be known that 600 million dollars of active guarantees were issued by the Republic of Croatia and that I am talking in fact about 523 million kunas that were restructured in May 3rd, which were then linked to companies within the Oil Group borrowed, from year to year borrowed, and then these loans were extended from year to year. The responsible, so those who ran the 3rd of May must certainly be, because they knew to borrow without actually knowing when they'll be returned. [[Invader President: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78433	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78434	... Linic, I have no idea where the anonymous application came from and I don't know what it says in that article you showed. [[The speaker didn't turn on the microphone, you can't hear it.]] What I know is that the Croatian state has also invested financial resources and expertise and knowledge over the past years to sort out and help the issue of Croatian shipbuilding. This was one of the capital themes and on the occasion of our negotiations on EU accession, the issue of state support, Chapter 8, plans were made, as you know, several months ago, past the deadlines for these support. What we did as a government, and especially when it comes to the Oilman, we had a dialogue with the administration. They were in constant communication with the economy's competent minister and Deputy Prime Minister, coming several times. The key issue is to find a strategic partner in Uljannik in the further restructuring process. This is the most important issue and the issue that guarantees survival and jobs and the construction of ships in Pula. The link between the Oilies and May 3rd is also known. I don't think there's any dilemma on that side. What you also know is that on one occasion in the debate here in the Croatian Parliament, we spoke about the fact that the Ministry of Finance has also carried out budgetary supervision of business, therefore, the issue of using state support, close communication with the European Commission's competent services. What we will do for our part, and I repeat responsibility is primarily on the board of society to help find a strategic partner, new investment and new orders, and thus the staying and survival of jobs in Uljanik, and, of course, in May 3rd. It is also interested in the County of Istria, and the County of Primorje-goranska and the Mayor of Pula Miletic and the Mayor of Rijeka Mr. Obersnel, there are no meetings of government members without these two topics being on the agenda. I think we're all in this process together and we want to solve the problem as much as possible. Without the right strategic partners, it will be difficult to maintain the situation as it is today. You're aware of that, it's a conscious administration, which is why our efforts are aimed at supporting these processes. Everything we do, we do legally, we make certain decisions that have helped these companies. On the other hand, we will continue dialogue with local self-government units, I believe we will find a quality solution for both the Uljannik and Teqi May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78435	Here are my colleagues, Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78436	So I would comment that as a good master, as a state, I think we did not behave well, that as you know for 5 years, Croatian shipbuilding Jadranbrod was following and reporting to the ministry what was going on and all the data you had. It's about 523 million kunas that came to the third of May and were then transferred to an oil group that has no place to return except to sell the property, I just want to know what property they're selling. Also in the criminal report, it actually says in the New List that a question of 313 million is being opened as the difference between the contracted and the market price of ships that the Third May actually built for Croatian shipowners since 2011 and which the Ministry of Economy allegedly paid to the Uljanica. So it's 850 million kuna, the May 3rd restructuring is over. May 3rd could have been saved that it worked in a completely different way to take care of where the money went. The money that was paid, so that 523, is approximately 4 years' pay for all 1700 workers working in May 3 to do nothing. So we had to take care of it as a state. Finally, someone stopped, wrote this criminal application on paper, and I hope that this will somehow blow up, and I got it as a parliamentary representative, and it came to your attention, and it came to the press, and I hope that after this, some answers will be clearer. I think we should have taken care of our money a lot differently as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78437	Let's go to question number 7, Honored Representative Recajmir Varda asks the question of Minister of Labour and Pension System Marko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78438	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Dear Minister Pavic, I have many questions, but I will try to raise questions or questions about the pension system, sublime in one. It has been under discussion in public for several months now about the current pension reform, and it is said that people born in 1962 who have the same internship as someone born in '61 will. have several hundred kuna less pensions and that you will abolish the benefits of a work experience. On the other hand, how do you comment on the criticism that raising the retirement age to 67 years will go from work to a cemetery? What is the stage of the preparation of the reform, when will it take effect, and in particular what measures do you foresee, and how will it improve the lives of present and future pensioners and that the pension system would be sustainable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78439	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78440	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. Thank you very much to the distinguished representative Varda for asking us to answer and deny certain rumors that have been made... In media space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At first, I would like to remind you that already with the 2014 law, Croatian citizens will be working until 67 years, but I would also like to remind those who are early entering the system of work, which are primarily occupations that have a lower level of education that they can already leave early in retirement, they are so-called. long-term pensions where someone who is 40 years old already can retire at 60 years of age. We'll keep that institute and what you said, from the cemetery to the job, it won't be for those workers, like cashiers, construction workers. I would certainly like to say that the Croatian pension system is sustainable and pensions and their payments are unquestionable but also about 39 billion kunas that we have, which we separate from the pension budget, are only a part of 56% of the contributions and 17 billion kunas are subsidized from the budget and just the recommendations of the European Commission are going in this direction. Only 20% of Croatian pensioners have full time, so they did 40 years. The goal of this reform that we are about to launch, the working groups we are going to gather this month, is to ensure sustainability but... both present and future pensioners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of the reforms will refer to future pensioners but we also have a part on the current particular issue of their inclusion in the labour market. This year we envisioned in the budget 1.4 billion kuna to increase pensions through the so-called so-called pension. Swiss formulas but we are aware that this is little for our pensioners, we are aware that pensions, pensions are not great, but we are aware that 1.4 billion kuna was the maximum that could be provided this year. The goal is for no group of insurance companies to be damaged, and in this direction, there will be a reform that we will propose. That's exactly what we're going to do to solve the 27% supplement issue. For now, only 17 users have been found, in the coming years it will be much more but also with full pension reform we will propose to address this issue, so absolutely no one is damaged. We'll improve the second and third pension pillars. I would remind you that in the second pension column we have 92 billion kuna, which are safe because 73% are invested in Croatian bonds, 16% in foreign bonds, and only 11% in shares. But what worries very much is that 96% of Croatian citizens do not choose their pension column in compulsory pension insurance, and very few have savings in the third pension column. In 2020, we plan to introduce a national pension for those less than 15 years of internships to present them as well. As far as the benefits are concerned, there won't be a suspension of the profession. However, according to the study, made by the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, we want to adapt these occupations to the 21st century. All in all, the entire comprehensive pension reform is planned to go from 1.1.2019, as I said, the aim is to ensure the sustainability and security of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78441	Here's an indication, colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78442	Thank you, Your Honor, sir. I am satisfied, however, we look forward to a pension reform. I see you're making sure you do a comprehensive analysis, all in terms of the sustainability of the pension system. That's what's most important for the safety of retirement. So thank you and I hope you can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78443	Let's go to the 8th question, Representative Zeljko Raguza, which is referred to by the Minister of Culture, Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78444	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister of Government. My question sent to the Minister of Culture. The Ministry of Culture and Croatian Brotherhood, Bokeljska Navy 809 from Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula, Split and Dubrovnik, on 19 January of this year, organized a scientific meeting, Bokeljska Navy and the St. Tripuna, as a tradition of the Bokle Croats. The participants agreed together that the only possible way to register the Bokele Navy and St. Tripun's car to UNESCO's representative list of immaterial cultural protection of humanity, the common nomination of Croatia and Montenegro, is because of the inextricable link between the Bokelic Navy and the Catholic Church and the Croatian people. Due to the fact that the Croatian minority in Montenegro contributes to the development of friendship between Croatia and Montenegro, which the Ministry of Culture has taken to protect the tradition of the Bokele Navy at international level, as part of the historical and cultural heritage of the Croatian people and especially Croatian Kotorska Kotorska in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78445	Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78446	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for this matter. There's been a lot of discussion in the media about this. I might also mention that the Republic of Croatia, the European state with the highest number of goods listed on the UNESCO representative list, is an immaterial cultural heritage. We have a really great experience, we have 14 goods, which so far are listed, and we actually share this great experience with a number of countries with which we prepare any common candidacy or participate in various scientific gatherings, in order to foster greater care for the immaterial cultural heritage. In the spirit of such promotion of such cooperation, 2.5 years ago, the initiative was launched that the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Montenegro, through joint cross-border candidacy, perform towards UNSECO and are actually running for two good, heritage of the Bokelj Navy and the tradition of the celebration of the Bokelic Navy in Montenegro and on the other hand in the Republic of Montenegro, the tradition of the Croats, which has already been taking place for more than 100 years. Both goods in Montenegro and Croatia are registered in national registers, however, during these years of talks, Montenegro has decided to go with an independent candidate, and there we have also decided to do so through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and through the Ministry of Culture, but also through numerous experts and professional contacts in order to first row associations, Croatian associations, which operate in Montenegro, help to articulate their positions and to say that we are satisfied, that in the end, this Montenegrin candidacy has recognised and recognised the contribution of Croats and Catholika. And that in her statement she emphasizes that it is a cultural good, which is the dominant heritage of Croats, Catholics, Boke Kotor and Montenegro, and then all the other peoples. In collaboration with the associations that you mentioned, especially the Ministry of Culture took a number of steps, we organised a scientific expert meeting and exhibition and prepared Croatia's candidacy, which was also dedicated to UNESCO at the end of last month, where we were running for the Tripundan celebrations and marking the Tripundan celebrations in the Republic, as we hope 15 non-materialally good, which the Republic will register. What was our position, the position of the government, the position of the resolute ministries involved, was that this issue was primarily addressed to Croatia, the national minority in Montenegro, their positions, their survival, we also called for our constitutional obligation, and we believe that this process is indeed the basis for continuing good co-operation between Montenegro and Croatia, and that in the process of evaluation, we will see that it will continue to develop and we believe that UNESCO will recognise this extremely valuable protection and enter it as an immaterial cultural good of both states, recognising once again, the key contribution of the Croatian people and the Catholic tradition in creating this immaterial cultural good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78447	Here you go, Comrade Ragug.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78448	I'm pleased with the answer, thank the Minister of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78449	Let's go to question number nine. Dear Representative Tomislav Lipoščak asks the question of the Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Nadi Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78450	I thank the President of the Parliament. I also welcome the Prime Minister with distinguished ministers and ministers. My question was addressed to the Minister of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Mrs Nadi Murganic. Namely, your ministry has issued an invitation to report projects to improve material conditions in kindergartens, i.e. to build new kindergartens and adaptations, or to upgrade existing kindergartens. If I'm not mistaken, the call was issued on February 21st and closed on March 30th. Since this is one of the measures that you have presented at the last Council for Demographic Revitalisation, I am interested in what was the interest in this measure, that is, in this call and whether it was appropriate in your opinion, taking into account the importance and the problem it deals with, and also when can we expect the results of this call itself, or the competition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78451	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78452	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Dear MPs and MPs, Prime Minister and fellow ministers, I welcome you all. Exactly what you asked, I can indeed confirm. It is generally known that in Croatia the large majority of our cities and municipalities have a problem with lack of place in kindergartens, and we also have an unsatisfactory number of children covered by the pre-school education programme. That is why, at the meeting of the Demographic Council, we have decided to help and this is the first government to do so, to assist local self-government units in co-financing, i.e. financing capital investments in kindergartens. The response is extremely high. At the end of the competition, on 30 March we received 273 applications that will be processed and in late April you can fully present, we will make the selection decision at the meeting of the demographic council that we are planning together with other decisions and measures in May. What I must point out is that in addition to a great response, we must also in some way commend the willingness of units of local self-government to good and quality projects, that they have responded very quickly. At the same time, a call for applications is still open, which is also focused on kindergartens, but also on human resources, on the employment of kindergarten staff, so teachers and educators, as well as other auxiliary staff, with the extension of work to two-way work with some new programmes, all in order to bring business and private life into line. For this tender, which was made in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, 300 million kunas from the European Funds have been allocated, and we believe that this competition will also gain this interest. These are together with other measures that we have in order to improve family policies that are aimed at increasing the birth rate, but above all at strengthening our families. I would like to remind you that the draft Act amending the Children's Supplement Act is also intended to increase the number of children, or families who will be entitled to a child's allowance. If we point out, and it should be mentioned that we increased the maternity and parental benefits last year with an application of 1.7 of 9 years after 9 years, up from 2660 to 4000, for the unemployed of 1660, then we can talk about taking care of family policies. Residential loans, changes in the tax amounts on which the net salary deduction is calculated also contributed to strengthening, financial strengthening our families. And in that direction, and these responses say that we are on a good path, we will continue with these policies and these measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78453	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Lipošak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78454	Thank you, Madam Minister. I am pleased with the answer and the joyous fact that a certain part of the local self-government unit has recognised the possibilities, in fact the importance that they are given through this call and these measures, and I hope that we will not have to wait very long to implement this measure as well as these others that you have announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78455	Let's go to question number 10. Representative Zeljko Lackovic should ask the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Gabrieli Zalac, but the future does not, the prime minister of the government will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78456	I would like to thank the President, and welcome to the Prime Minister and all members. So precisely for this reason that today is not the Minister Mrs. Gralac with us, I'm going to make a little bit of a general question, or I'm not going to go into the essence, since the Prime Minister doesn't need to know this detail, and it's actually about the next one. Therefore, Article 74(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Regulation 13 03 of 2013 provides that Member States shall ensure the existence of an effective mechanism to verify complaints against European Structural and Investment Funds. The scope of the rules and procedures of such mechanisms shall be the responsibility of the Member States in accordance with their institutional and legal framework. So today we have a situation where a large number of applications for the use of funds from various cohesion and other European funds do not go through and that, under such decisions, we have a significant number of objections. It is clear that these are often some technical disadvantages, but what is disputed is the fact that in a series of projects an assessment of the quality of the process itself, i.e. there is one specific space for subjective assessment, i.e. an unquantitative unverified non-objective assessment. So then the decision says that the role of the selection board will be to check whether this assessment of two independent evaluators is actually made in accordance with the rules, and the second-degree body does not simply enter into a new evaluation, which I think should be when the exclusion criterion is exactly one qualitative assessment or assessment. We had a specific case at North University. And that particular item was directed towards the minister, so here. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78457	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78458	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Lackovic. I will ask the Minister who is in Luxembourg today for a meeting with European Investment Bank officials in order to complementarity, use of funds from the budget and what the EIB can give us through its activities to support the absorption of European funds. And as for the University of the North, and I know that you are in communication with her on this issue and we will try to find a solution that might be more appropriate to address this developmental aspect, an important university for the Republic of Croatia. And as for the concrete evaluation of that programme, you yourself said that it is not realistic that as Prime Minister, I am entering that kind of question. But what you would do well to say to this question of yours, and if there is no minister, yet one important message of acceleration for all processes when it comes to European funds. We, as you know in that financial perspective before EU membership, have now come to the stage of submitting final reports. And it's good for the public to know that more than 90% of allocated funds have been used from these funds. So, if there was no operational program, the absorption would have been slightly greater than 60%. Everyone else was 90 and 98% used. So, with one time-out, when you look at the funds in a particular financial perspective, we stand well. With regard to the current situation, we have in the last 18 months negotiated three and a half times as much European funds as in the previous 40 months. That should also be made clear. We found 9% of the contracted funds, now 39% of them from the entire financial perspective. By the end of this year, we plan to contract a total of 6.5 billion euros. Therefore, 60% of the funds allocated in the 13th perspective, the 20th should be agreed by the end of 2018. If we continue with this rhythm then we will not only until 2020, but with the rule N+3 we will be in a situation that Croatia absorbs allocated funds in this year which are a stopper and investment and development in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, payment to end-users, which is also important, has increased. She is now 206% compared to what she was before. When we put all together in one full analysis, then we see that the Ministry of Regional Development is all competent ministries trying to agree with the European Commission to find a way to modify certain aspects of the operational programme for competitiveness and cohesion in order to make the funds that are intended even more meaningful and more efficient in these years that are ahead of us. So, in total, by looking at the intensiveness of our activities, we have significantly accelerated the processes, simplified them, accelerated absorption, monitored activities and end-users and implementing bodies and governing bodies. These topics are held every two weeks at a meeting of the government and at the last sessions that we have so that all ministries as holders of individual activities will be hired to the fullest. I think the total amount of these funds in this financial perspective is so large that it represents a real additional value for economic growth and the development of the country. That's how we look at them, and all the authorities involved have a task of speeding up this process even more, including these projects that interest you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78459	Here you go, colleague Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78460	I would like to thank the President for his reply, thank you for supporting the North University project. I also support the idea that the use of funds is put into one segment for better control and greater efficiency, but I would also like to say that this part that I have highlighted for the transparency of the procedure everywhere where there will be one of the criteria, therefore qualitative assessment or to allow the complainants, those who have not received those funds just excluded by that criterion, thus also allowing the appointment of one independent evaluator on their part or the mandatory revaluation in the second degree in order in any case to remove doubts about who has wrongly made whether those who wrote the average or those who evaluated it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78461	Let's ask number 11. Representative Kresho Beljak. The question asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78462	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Just over a year ago, on your proposal, the ruling majority passed the Act on the procedure of extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. The law also included a list of these companies. The head of that list was Agrokor Agrokor, which is why the whole law is called Lex Agrokor. Now we have a new, completely new situation since yesterday, the entire public is aware that the weight of the owner of Agrokor is very soon becoming, if not already the Russian State Bank and the seat of Agrokora is moving from Croatia to the Netherlands. So here I am asking a layman's but also a political question that interests the public, who is interested in the people I speak to, does this mean that this law, i.e. the list that went into law, is no longer to be called from this list Agrokor as a company that has less and less to do with Croatia, or does this mean that lex Agrokor is no longer to be called because it does not refer to a company that I repeat once again soon becomes heavily owned by the Russian state bank and settles in the Netherlands, so it will have less and less connections with Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78463	Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78464	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Beljak, I think that yesterday, as well as the public, you had the opportunity to hear the basic outlines of the settlement concept reached within the activities of the extraordinary administration, both with suppliers and with creditors. In the next 3 months you will get more detailed, additional information complete rounding the legal framework in which the company, its corporate governance, will be organised, and ultimately according to the model that was partially presented yesterday and the detailed structure of the owner. You know it's practically the financial creditors who have determined the structure of the ownership of the future company. These financial creditors are neither there nor by my decision nor by our choice. They are here because at certain stages of the company's activities before the law was activated, so more than a year ago they gave money to the administration and then to the owner of the projects and activities that the administration represented. When you look at what it looks like today, then you see that they are such a bargain and you could hear it both yesterday and by representatives of Croatian suppliers they are very pleased. With all that she said in one response to the previous issue of Representative Jelkovac, Vice-President Dalic, we achieved three fundamental goals and I see that nothing bad happened last year and that in this year we have prevented the economic and financial collapse from the company itself from losing jobs and bankruptcy probably a series of suppliers, crises in agriculture, crises in tourism, everything seems to be normal, as if it were always meant to be and that it happened in itself and that no one here thought at that time how to react to the extraordinary measures and the quality of the legal framework, we have done so, we have put great political risks both to the government and the parties and parliamentary majority, some have not. And now that we've come to the stage that all interested actors are actually satisfied, now you're asking the question of what kind of ownership structure is. And do you think it would be right if there were some arbitration decisions of the extraordinary administration in this process until someone is solidified and the company is restructured, we think not. We think that this is exactly the kind of model we have provided for a new trust, the trust of these creditors, not only in the company but in the entire Croatian state, in its efforts that it ended in similar situations so that suppliers in some restructures of a similar character would receive maybe 8% of their debt. So ask our suppliers if they're satisfied with what's been paid us both by the old and... Ask small OPGs if they are satisfied, ask those who work in the company if they are satisfied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ask the heads of the neighbouring countries if they are grateful that we have prevented the spilling of the crisis and their countries. All those answers are affirmative. And here I repeat, Russian banks or American funds or our banks or European banks, they came here with economic interests and we have no prejudice, no conspiracy theories. When everyone sat down at the table, showed confidence, the willingness of new funding achieved success. And I think that it should be accepted and that part of the structure related to Dutch legislation is just for the sake of trust, it's just plus, not no minus, Mr. Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78465	Comrade Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78466	Thank you very much for your answer. I asked you something else, so I don't dispute everything you've been saying, nor did I mean criticizing, I'm just asking if Lex Agrokor, who was brought in for strategic Croatian-owned companies, of interest to the Republic of Croatia, will continue... companies that are obviously no longer with Croatia will have absolutely nothing, less and less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what I asked you. Are you with Lex Agrokora, then when you've already met the Dutch King or Mr Putin, or at least the Dutch and Russian diplomats in Croatia because if things go wrong, I'm afraid you don't take the wrong diplomatic step again so you don't banish Dutch diplomats or Russian or I don't know what. So no one argues that there are some results, as they are, we will see it very quickly, but the fact remains that the law called the Act on the procedure of extraordinary management of trade societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, that you have not answered me whether it will be valid for Agrokor who has less and less and less ownership and any other ties with Croatia than the agricultural land contract that binds in the next 25, 30 or 50 years the highest quality Croatian agricultural land with Agrokor which will obviously benefit now have foreign investors, foreign investors, or I don't know who, so if it was the result and I also congratulate you on that because, in your words, good works have been done. However, I repeat, you did not answer my regrettably whether the law passed for Croatian companies, for companies of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia remains valid in the event that Agrokor with Croatia will not even have a seat in Croatia, but in the Netherlands, and the owners will be Americans and Russians as they agreed. But, well, thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78467	We're going to the 12 questions of MP Mira Bulj. The question asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78468	Thank you very much, President. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, on a number of occasions in the Croatian Parliament and the question is raised for you, I have pointed out a violation of labour rights. Now I'm going to ask you questions from Dalmatia, i.e. Dalmatian Zagora is Dalmatia wine and numerous others, companies that are bankrupt, workers in the bankruptcy process remain short sleeves. To show you, i.e. Simplify this question, what's the problem? Dalmatinka workers went bankrupt in 1999. The Dalmatian woman as a company paid them nothing, the state owned and huge claims, then the workers didn't get kunas. Afterwards, the buyer was Ladini, who also had not paid the workers for many years, so in 2009, it went bankrupt. The Dalmatian girl was bought. I asked 15.11. As soon as it was purchased only after 4 months I received a reply from the Ministry of Finance. The City Council of Sinja unanimously concluded that they would give up their claims in the case of Dalmatia, workers and their claims. The state would receive a total amount of 10 million kuna to waive the minimum of its claims, to correct the injustices of those workers. Once again, I ask you publicly to the Prime Minister whether the state intends to waive its own claims, which is possible for the benefit of Dalmatian workers who have been waiting for their claims for 9 years, which for tens of years have worked free of kuna. It's about workers, women who have been used as slaves in the Republic of Croatia. Please answer this question for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78469	Thank you. Prime Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78470	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. I suppose the Ministry of Finance has responded thoroughly and probably within the framework of legal possible activities. What we will do in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, see if there are any other ways, with what Minister Maric has said to you, to find a solution especially for those workers who have worked, and for this they have not been paid. It's a fundamental right and human rights and labour law if you want to get paid for work. And certainly a situation where they were left without compensation for their work where they were de facto as you say exploitation, that's not good. I think we agree here, and we will agree with the Ministry of Finance and possibly the unit of local self-government to see what else can be done here. More than that, I can't tell you at this point except one human gesture of goodwill, to try and solve that problem. Unfortunately, this is not the only problem, such situations in Croatia's economic transition have been enough. You and I both know that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78471	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78472	Dear Prime Minister, so I've asked you a question, Minister 15.11. Maric, I received an answer only 15.3 and to insist on the president who took steps to respond to the ministry. The City Council sent to the government, the government asked the Ministry of Finance for a response that had not yet responded to the City Council of Sinj to find a solution together, and the city of Sinj is ready to give up its claims. However, it is minimal if the state does not give up. The same is true of Dalmatia wine. It's the same case with all the way down to the Dalmatian Zagora, and that's one of the conditions that people are leaving for. This is about women. Here, the Committee on Gender Equality should meet and say its opinion that women who were slaves is the Convention of all conventions, that women who worked 20 years did not receive salaries in Croatia. That's how it was Stone, that's how the Dalmatian woman, the Sink case. These women were literally hungry, they didn't have a marenda, they didn't have travel expenses. I expect from you if you can solve the question of where money is enormously forgiven or, for example, Gaženica port where for a million kuna, the Turkish owner gets an investment from, our port strategically invested billion-and-a-half, the coloring of tunnels, numerous robbery companies, the forgiveness of the debts of Todorovic, the suffering of those money that should have been for the OPG in these companies to make it possible for these workers to keep the minimum minimum possible and I expect it from you. This is the cry of those workers that I've been talking to not today but for 20 years now, and I think it's a minimum minimum that you've now confirmed that it won't be as an official response to the finance minister, but that you'll be really busy getting these workers their rights because it's a fundamental human and fundamental right, a right to pay, and especially when we talk about women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78473	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Boris Miletic to the RS Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78474	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. My question concerns one area near Pula, but allow me a brief introduction. We all know together how important tourism is for Croatia's economy, that the share of tourism is more than 20% in GDP, and we all know together that tourism is unfortunately one of the few economic activities that today in Croatia really works not only in terms of employment but also in terms of investment. I would ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, to tell us what is the government's position on the area of the former military airport near Pula, so right next to a civilian airport that works. Since six years ago, the Ministry of Defence declared the area a military-free area, and all of us were shocked and surprised recently when we could hear information mentioning the reactivation of that part for military purposes. So, in the meantime, after the MORH declared the area a militaryly unspective unit of local self-government, so the Ližnjan municipality and the Istrian County, as a unit of regional self-government, changed their business plans, given the great interest of potential investors, and I want to highlight that in the high technology industry. By amending the plans, it is possible, therefore, to put this area for civil purposes, in the development of the economy, but I say once again, the recent information that has appeared in both the public and the media, to reconsider the possibility of militarisation of this area, has shocked all of us together, so I ask you as President, that is, the position of the Government that you intend to do with this area?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78475	Thank you. Answer, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Andre Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78476	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representative Miletic. This is the secretary of defense and the vice president of the government. As far as I know, the Croatian Army has practically given all its facilities that exist in Istria to local and regional self-government units. This is according to my information the only remaining Croatian military facility and our armed forces, which is still physically owned by the Ministry of Defence throughout the Istrian County. Details of the once unspective or present-day perspective on the property are primarily on the competent ministry, the Ministry of Defence and an assessment of the need to use the military part of the airport in Pula. I suggest that you, as mayor of Pula, engage in dialogue with the Ministry of Defence, that you present your plans, which are also related to the development of tourism in Istria and the development of the airport itself and that you see how today is considered within the Ministry of Defence on the needs and realistic steps to be taken regarding the airport in Pula. On this side, the Government has at this time a message of dialogue for the city of Pula and for you in your duty, given that the concept of the Ministry of Defence, and of course the Government, is that the presence of the Croatian Army is wider in a number of Croatian cities than it has been so far. Here, one of the cities is Sinj, where the return of the Croatian army to Sinj is extremely good, the same is done with Vukovar, the same is done with Varazdin, the same is done with Plots. All these moves have come across a good example of a more high-quality and more even institution of armed forces in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As far as this issue is concerned, I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, to discuss it with you and to see what is an optimal solution both from the aspect of security and from the aspect of defence and from the aspect of the economy and the development of tourism in Pula and Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78477	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78478	Thank you, the Istrian County and the city of Pula have repeatedly communicated with the Ministry of Defence over the past six years, and this is exactly what all this information went in this direction, as the Ministry has decided, that this is a non-spective area, so the taxpayers' money was spent, both the Ližnjan municipalities, so the Istrian County, in order to change the spatial plans and, according to the identification of that area, as a military imperspective, would allow civil purposes. These plans were adopted, on these plans and the competent ministry gave their consent and these plans were in effect. I'm sure no one will come to Istria on vacation to listen to a sound wall breach, a military plane, that's a thing of the past. We don't need it in Istria, no military planes and no militarization. What we insist on, that this property be put into office, that the MORH hand it over to the Ministry of State Assets, which can then be available for civil purposes, such as spatial plans, counties and Ližnjan municipalities predicted. On the other hand, a year and a half ago we spoke very clearly, do not increase VAT in hospitality tourism, it will not explain what you are planning. And the numbers deny you, we have a growth in tourism, but we don't have an increase in VAT revenues in catering. And today we're witnessing that an investment in hospitality or if they just move, they're gone. We see the problem of the labor force in the catering, because the service is catering, it's a service, it's a man, too loaded with VAT, so when we tell you something from the opposition lines try to appreciate it. It's not military and tourism, it just doesn't go together. If there's anything good for Istria, I believe it's good for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78479	Thank you. The next question will be asked by the respected representative Damir Felak, Croatian Defence Minister, Mr. Toma Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78480	I would like to thank the President, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Government, Mr. Medved, my question is about your ministry, the end of the Homeland War, and we are unfortunately faced with a number of military and civilian people who, along with their psychological traumas, have severe physical damages, and have often not resolved their status. One of the main tasks of your ministry is the preservation of property and mitigation of the negative consequences of the Homeland War. And under one point is the strengthening of the care system, raising the quality of life of the defence and the victims' populations through the activities of Croatian veterans' homes. My question goes that way. It has been more than a year since the opening of Croatian veterans' homes in Lipik, can you explain to us who can use the services of this Croatian veterans' home, what are our experiences from this use, how you plan to install these experiences into the realisation of veteran centres' projects because more and more veterinary centres are expected to be built in the Republic of Croatia because the needs are large, the defence population is getting older and unfortunately, there is an increasing need for services of such centres, and also at what stage is the project, did you start building other centres, and do you have the funds provided for such a thing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78481	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Tom Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you for your question. The Croatian Defence Ministry launched a project by the Croatian Veterans' House, and since there was no institution in the Republic of Croatia that would provide comprehensive care in one place. The home in Lipik started working on 22 February 2017, and it is a accommodation-rehabilitation facility in which services are provided in the field of psycho-social programmes, preventive health activities, group support, working therapy and user rehabilitation. By 5 April this year, the service of home was used by 714 users, most of them from the Homeland War, who have been treated for many years for the aftermath of the wound and Croatian defenders with multiple somatic and mental disorders. Services are provided according to an individual work plan drawn up by professionals in the field of biomedical and social humanities, depending on the assessment, needs and health conditions and on existing capacities at home. The objective of such an approach is to enable fuller social inclusion, the adoption of new knowledge and skills. The Home shall cooperate with all relevant institutions that can assist in meeting the final objectives and thus assist home users professionally. The plan is to cooperate with health institutions, relevant scientific institutions of the socio-humanist and biomedical field, competent centres for psycho-social assistance and regional units of the Croatian Defence Ministry, and associations of people from the Homeland War. At the end of November 2017, an agreement was concluded on cooperation between the special hospital for the medical rehabilitation of Lipik and the House of Croatian Veterans. According to feedback, home users are extremely satisfied with the rehabilitation provided and the quality of the service provided by the home. In 2018, up to 1000 users are planned. In order to respond in time to the needs of the population, we continue with a project to fund the creation of veterans with EU funds. The project includes adaptation, construction and equipment of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia at locations in Daruvar, Petrinja, Sinj, Sibenik and Osijek, and total alocation is 288 million kuna, and thus we will respond to the needs of a significantly larger number of users. All property-legal relations which are the basis for the launch of project documentation procedures have been resolved during 2016 and 2017. Procedures have been launched to develop main implementation projects for locations, followed by procedures for selecting contractors in the middle of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78483	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78484	Minister, I am pleased with your response, especially with this final part, that EU funds will be used for the construction and opening and other centres throughout the Republic of Croatia, which will benefit, above all, the Croatian RVI, clear and civilian disabled and the rest of the defence population, and that in this way we will contribute to making this population feel in this society the way it should feel because the RVI, the civilian disabled, gave the most valuable parts of their lives, our health and we are certainly obliged to repay them for it, and I am unusually glad that the EU recognises such needs and that they will be invested and the funds from the EU funds, means that they will not go all the burden on the taxpayers of the Republic, and I am particularly glad that the first such centre is opened in Lipik because it is the first Croatian city that is freed in the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78485	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Davor Loncar to the respected tourism minister, Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78486	Thank you, Vice President. Honored representatives of the Croatian government, respected ministers, respected ministers, Capelli. These days we are talking about the announcements of amendments to the Law on Attending Activity, where the destruction of walls in apartments, rooms and holiday houses is mentioned. As it comes to a large number of citizens involved in renting, I ask you how the Ministry imagined it, which means for private renters and whether there will be incentive measures by the Ministry and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78487	The answer of Honorable Minister Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78488	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, thank you for asking. Well, I'd say in the media these days, of course, there's been such connotations that various apartments will be destroyed, that they won't be able to rent some anymore because they don't have gauges, etc. We have prepared a Law that will soon be found in the Government and later in the Parliament, so you will also have opportunities to make sure that this is not the case. It is about coordinating the categorisation of family accommodation, so one segment of tourism that is very important in the Republic of Croatia and which covers about 56% of the capacity of Croatian tourism in accommodation that reached an increase of over 30% last year and which has reached about 35 million overnight stays of the 100 million achieved in the Republic last year. Somewhere in that segment we have about 350,000 employees, we can also say one interesting fact that we have about 20 billion euros in the value of buildings built in that segment. Also 250m euros in investment investments annually in the segment, so accommodation. What is important, then, is that new legislation will introduce system control after more than 20 years, so control of everything that happens in these apartments. I'm going to tell you one example, let's say that at this point we have three regulations that regulate that private accommodation, which are the '95 rules. so somewhere from 2007 and 2016 so today we have a regulation of apartments in such a way. And now that we're comparing one apartment, let's say from '85. Or '90s. and those registered recently differed greatly in this accommodation capacity and, of course, tourists noticed it and in some certain ways asked to clear up this market and to protect consumers and everything that goes with it. And that's how we're going to put together, unite if I can put it like that, those three regulations, and there's only gonna be one rulebook. These by September 1st, until recently, by September 1st, everyone who had registered apartments didn't have to go there, let's call it recategorization, as we somehow popularly called it and thus unlike the hotels that every 4 years have to go to control the categorization, at the hotel, it wasn't the case in private family accommodation, and there we have apartments for 20, 30 years that no one has ever entered to see if they still have the right to those 3 or 4 stars. This goes one way and the possibility of raising the categorization, i.e. Raising competitiveness towards all other countries for this reason that we will thus enable favourable loans that we will realise through commercial banks, of course through HABOR which will be around 2 to 3% and thus each will be able to go into a certain retegorization, whether because of the obligations of the law or because of the obligations that they will have to raise their quality, have a capacity of maybe 20, 30 days longer if they build a pool, if they do some wellness or something like that. And as for this part of your work, the questions you said about the crash will not come to ruin, everyone will be able to recategorize, have a better category, and those who do not want to apply for retegorization will be able to work further, but will not have stars in their segment and will probably be less filled and have less quality. Thus, we allow everyone to raise quality and in a certain way have greater filling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78489	Thank you, dear representative Davor Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78490	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78491	The next question will be asked by respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic, Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Mr Tomislav Ćoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78492	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question for Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection Tomislav Coric. Mr. Ćorić's question concerns the situation in Slavonski Brod, i.e. water pollution, soil and eventually air due to the operation of the refinery. Namely, why did you allow without a competition to go in the direction of a product manufacturer who ran products from a refinery in a Bosnian ship via Sava to the Croatian side in Djur Đaković, first of all, until the war was closed, why is the job a day without competition for a private company while we have Plinarro specializing in these jobs? Have any tests been carried out by any state government institutions of the correctness of this product pipeline? I remind you that he is 60 years old, out of the '50s, there is no function, or rotting, and whether an environmental impact assessment has been made, or an expert basis for that assessment, which is an environmental impact study in the event of the conversion of the pipeline into a gas pipeline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78493	The answer of the respected Minister Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78494	Dear Representative Sincic, I thank you for your questions. I've tried to catch a few of them, if I fail to answer someone, please give me a written question, or our ministry will be answered in writing. Your first question was why is without a tender a day's work using the Product Guide if I understand the Crodux companies correctly? What I would certainly like to refer you to is the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Energy at the end of October 2017 signed the protocol on cooperation in the implementation of the natural gas supply project by the final buyer of the oil refinery Ship with the Republic of Serbia's Contractor. This first opened the space for becoming one of the two legal entities on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and registered a gas supplier, which is Crodux, and on the other hand the Ship refinery in BiH. What should certainly be emphasized is the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Energy has been in this signing of the protocol since gasification, i.e. the modernisation of the oil refinery of the Ship is one of the assumptions of reducing air pollution in the area of Slavonski Brod, i.e. Ship-Posavina County. As regards the specific business, i.e. the specific moment of the examination, so the Ministry of Environment and Energy cannot enter there, it is not actually under our authority because it is a legal business that took place between Plinarro as the owner of this product and Crodux. What should certainly be kept in mind is the fact that Plinarro is not a gas supplier in the Republic of Croatia but is primarily an operator of the gas transport system. So he owns the infrastructure. What I would also like to emphasise in answer to your question is the fact that this is not about use, so the use of the product pipeline is about its study for a potential reuse that will occur or will not occur in the next period. Given the fact that in your question you have actually referred to an environmental impact study if I am not mistaken, I would refer you to the fact that an environmental impact study does not need to be conducted in such a case. So it was only after this study that was conducted and you refer to yourself that it was necessary to assess, I suppose in the legal business, the basis of the contract between Plinacro and Crodux whether it was possible to go further, which is to re-use the existing pipeline into a pipeline that would supply the oil refinery of the Ship. So, given the fact that you've asked a few questions, I apologize once again if I haven't been able to catch all of these, but the key thesis is next. It's about testing the manufacturer, not using it. Plinarro as a business entity in the Republic of Croatia, a gas system operator, so it cannot deliver gas to any third party, it is supplied by suppliers in the Republic of Croatia, for example by one of them Crodux or HEP gas or by another, third, fifth, those who have such permits. As regards the specific study of the product-conductor, once again it does not need to be based on the current legal framework in the Republic of Croatia, an environmental impact assessment or an environmental impact study should not be carried out. You also asked whether, if I am not mistaken, this product was being examined, according to the information that I own, Plinacro as the owner of this product pipeline, i.e. this infrastructure periodically tours or examines its quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78495	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78496	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am not satisfied with this answer, however, I have sent 20 questions to your Ministry or Government with questions to clarify the situation of water pollution, soil and air in Slavonski Brod as quickly as possible, and I have not talked about Plinacro as someone who should be selling gas to the Bosnian Ship refinery rather than as someone who would be doing the reuse of products into the pipeline. Also, as for water pollution, there are a number of unresolved issues, so if you consult with the profession, with people who are hydrologists, who know how to spread hydrocarbons through the ground, it is clear that the soil of the Slavonski Brod area will be polluted for a long time. However, we have heard very little about this in public, about such opinions of the profession. There's a whole series of non-transparent facts, let's say we still don't have Crodux information, complete information, complete information about what happened. We know that they tried to interpret in the wrong way by saying that only 100 to 200 liters had leaked, but we saw in the footage that it was about a thousand squares which is cca. 10 meters of cubic fluid in that space. There were therefore a whole series of misinformations that caused citizens not to trust the institutions, both the inspections and your ministry and Crodux, and finally the town of Slavonski Brod, i.e. the water pipeline. That is why we will ask for a parliamentary investigative committee on this matter and for investigations to be conducted within a few months to publicly expose all arguments, documentation and publicly questioned witnesses on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78497	Thank you very much. The next question will be that of MP Vedran Babic, and directed towards the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78498	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, the position and the worldview of top state officials paint the perception and experience of the country as a whole, which is why I am interested in your personal position. Do you think abortion is an inviolable and free right for any woman who cannot be restricted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78499	Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78500	As far as my personal attitude goes, I'm about to do everything I can to make sure that these situations don't happen. As you know, the HDZ's position was such that the general ban is not real and all of this will come on the agenda since we had a decision of the Constitutional Court and that a new working group will be working on this very important and medical but also world-class issue. The HDZ was very clear in all its election programmes and pre-election positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78501	Dear Representative Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78502	Thank you very much. Well, here's what you didn't really answer my question. I asked you your personal opinion, did you, could you answer as you did and knew how to answer yes or no, you missed that answer. Now I don't know if it's worse that you're afraid to say it, or if it's worse that you don't have it at all, to wait for what kind of attitude you're going to have on that matter. The position of me personally and the SDP Club is, of course, clear, we definitely think that abortion is the uninjurious and free right of every woman who can't be restricted. And if you are in the process of making laws on the grounds that women have the right to do so then you should certainly make sure that this form of health care is equally available everywhere on the ground, to see what is called conscience and what is about this service being available in every part of Croatia because unfortunately this is not happening. I hope that law-making will certainly go in the direction of law-making in the direction of Croatia, which is a pro-European and a progressive country and that in some ways it will not be limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78503	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Affairs Minister Marija Pejcinovic Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78504	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored Deputy Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers, two important presidencys are before Croatia. One is the Presidency, and in just a few weeks, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers for a little over a year and a half, and the Council of the EU, so please tell us how our preparations are progressing, say something about our goals, priorities of the Croatian Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78505	The reply of the respected Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Marija Pejcinović, Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78506	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking Mr. Representative. Well, I'd like to add the third presidency. In fact, the Republic of Croatia is chairing the Central European Initiative this year, which is the second time in 20 years. Since '98. We've been presidening for the last time, that's all year. And if we compare that chairmanship to the chairmanship of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers to the one waiting for us in 2020. Six months, then it's about playing ball. The next, for example, is the last training and the EU Council will chair which is the most complex and in fact, these two are the first time that the Republic of Croatia holds the presidency of these forums. We entered the Council of Europe in '96. and this will be the first time for the Republic of Croatia to chair the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. I would say in general, that the presidency is all, and these three have two important aspects. One is the visibility and political influence that the state receives, and the other is the promotion of the state itself. We, in all the three presidencies we are currently holding, who we are preparing for the Council of Europe and this third, are taking a look at everything, taking care of all these parts. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, it begins in 18.5, we take over from Denmark, our priorities within that presidency are the fight against corruption, so the topics that are in the focus of the Council of Europe, the protection of national minorities of vulnerable groups, the decentralisation of local administrations and self-government, with an emphasis on absorption opportunities and as lastly, so on. Soft topic of cultural route and cultural heritage. As for us, therefore, in those 6 months, we will have 36 activities of which 16 will be in the Republic of Croatia, and if I mention only a few to see about what character is, therefore, one of the largest will be the conference of bodies that presided over the Anti-Corruption Body in the Council of Europe. It is chaired, therefore, by the chairman of this body is our Supreme Court judge Marin Mrcela and that will be, therefore, the biggest event we have in the six months. However, we will have two more, one in archaeology, so underwater routes, which will be organised by the Ministry of Culture and other cultural routes organised by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Tourism. So, as far as we're concerned, these are our priorities, these are areas we're going to deal with, and we're going to end up in the middle of the 11th month. The biggest and most important presidency is the EU Council Presidency. It has an organisational and content aspect. As for this organizational one, at this point I might point out the part about the personnel. It is these days that a large project within the European Social Fund of 1.2m euros has been approved, through which around 800 people from the administration will go to the highest level, so ministerial levels and will prepare for various aspects of skills and skills for the presidency. As for the second part of the organisational part, I would point out that in that same year, the Republic of Croatia has a city of culture, that is Rijeka. So the cultural program will be greatly combined with the fact that we have the city of culture in that year. As far as the volume is concerned, maybe it's the fact that 1600 meetings have been organized in those six months, and it's in itself telling us how many It's a big deal. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78507	Thank you. My fellow Milosevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78508	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. If I may, I would suggest another topic which is, it seems to me that somehow across the EU is underrated in relation to these extreme migrations that we are all constantly discussing. Everyone's under that impression all over the Union. However, on internal migration and on the problem of Brain-drain, which does not only have the Republic of Croatia, but the entire eastern and southern Mediterranean Europe, with one incredible centripetal power that has German and other economies, extreme efforts in cohesion policy within Brussels are clearly to be made, and this means investing. So, in some ways, this is all connected together with the debate on the new European budget because without cohesion policy, without targeted efforts, so I will say openly, everyone within the EU, because I think this is a matter of internal migration and the outflows of ambitious, young, educated, in fact, the issue of stability of the entire EU. So if we want to have the east of the Union and the south, in a way more stable, more prosperous, then it's important that those who are more economically well aware of it too are focused on it. And there's one more thing I want to say and praise. Somehow, your path seems to have gone very unnoticed for Macedonia, Albania and Kosovo. I don't know why. Because I think that this trip and in general all our efforts concerning this very space, therefore, or a member of the NATO Alliance, or those that will become members of the NATO Alliance, are not only political, foreign policy, but also economical. We're testifying, in a way, and even a trade surplus in this area as a consequence... and some geopolitical relations, but on the other hand, that's why for the Croatian economy for exporting entrepreneurs, everything else, that space we're talking about over 6 million Albanians lives in that space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a serious market. We're both prone and I think we can use a lot better. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78509	Let's go to 20 questions. Honorable representative Nikola Grmoja raises the issue to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78510	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government. In recent years, we have faced the consequences of climate change, huge scales and enormous damage to our citizens, as well as to the state as a whole. We remember the damage from the floods in Eastern Croatia and the ice in the forests of Gorsko Kotar in 2014 as well as the dramatic fires on the threshold of the Dalmatian cities in 2017. The consequences of these damages have not yet been completely resolved, and in this year we have already faced snowstorms, hurricane winds, floods, skates in several counties. Unfortunately, although the cause is different, this should be added to air and water pollution in Slavonski Brod, which is fought by citizens of Slavonski Brod and its surroundings. Now we have summer, the main tourist season, meaning the very season of fire. The damages are enormous, all efforts to eliminate the immediate danger and the consequences of naturally bordered reach. The damages from the budget are also lower than those of the list, and insurance companies already in certain areas refuse to negotiate insurance because it is not about risks anymore, but about regular events. It is obvious that preventive action and building a climate-resistance system and other environmental threats are needed wherever possible. My question comes to you, Prime Minister, and what is it that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing to build a system to strengthen resilience to climate change and other environmental threats in line with the national security strategy we voted here in the Croatian Parliament? How much is the planned budget and outside the budget for this purpose for 3 years and how much is the current use of EU financial funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78511	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78512	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have well cited climate change, but other reasons have caused numerous natural disasters and natural disasters that we have faced in recent years. First of all, the fires and ice and floods and these contaminants, what's good is that in Slavonski Brod, you saw it yourself after, I'd say a wise move and the Department of Public Health and all the competent services to conduct trials for several days in continuity that we don't bring our fellow citizens into any risk zone now and for drinking and cooking and that's good. You saw that in terms of crisis response, the state reacted maximumly, prontoly and efficiently and thanks to the Croatian military and thanks to the Ministry of Economy, Stocks, tanks, tanks, people, delivery of bottled water was such that the citizens of Slavonski Brod and all other municipalities had water in time. So that's what I'm telling you because here we are faced with these circumstances in some way and reported, not just in the reaction when some of these accidents happen, but before. The entire Homeland Security system. We have a new coordination where we have a process of lessons learned, for example from the great fire season last year, from the use of aircraft, better coordination of county fire companies, state administrations for protection and rescue, the roles of Croatian police, the Red Cross, the HGSS, all competent and local self-government, has been raised to a higher level. I would say that the contact we have with all these representatives and their reactions are such as to see that there have been more funds and that there has been more synergy and coordination. On this side there are also funds that, if you remember in 2017, it seems to me that Minister Marić was 20 million kunas planned, we in the budget rebalancing provided 100 million kuna, so we made the maximum effort. For example, when it comes to these rinks and winter service, there are resources of the Croatian Roads, there are ways to further support what the Ministry of Transport can do to make up for the funds already spent during the first 3 months, there were very many ends, not only Gorski Kotar but also other counties where there have been practical breakthroughs of planned budgets. I think we're responding effectively, to react quickly, when you watch what hit us all, we can be pleased that there were no human casualties. Comparatively speaking, in the Mediterranean, in Europe, in America, not to speak. You've had a chance to see similar situations with huge human casualties in the last two years, and it didn't happen to us. I expect that entire system of homeland security and especially these protections from elemental disasters to an even higher level. Meetings organised by both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and here is the Ministry of Energy, which also has Croatian waters that must react properly, protection of the environment, of course, have achieved quality results. We have budgeted everything that we can do in the context of what is realistic, if there are any major damages, we, as you noticed, Vice President Stromar reacted to this situation that happened in Croatia Kostajnica practically immediately, with all its services, with the Central State Office for Housing and we have found alternative accommodation for people who have lost their homes in 60 seconds. So from the level of government, communication with local and regional units self-government and in the budgets at this point are doing absolutely everything we can, and in the event of a higher risk, the rebalance is always one option that solves the problem. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78513	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78514	Your Honor, Mr. President, I thank you for your reply. I agree during these recent natural disasters. There was a better organisation of competent services and volunteers in that organisation of direct defence or the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters compared to last year. Of course, I would like to make a confession this way, so to all the employees of the departments, the firemen, the police, the military and other volunteers who have been involved in these damages as little as possible. So we saw very well in the field of Damir Krsticevic, Deputy Prime Minister and Dragan Lozancic, Director of the State Rescue Authority. We also noticed the efforts that government media advisers made in the presentation during government officials' visits to these affected areas. This is not all that remains undetected to us, but yet Croatia and Croatian citizens cannot go on like this. Elimination of the consequences of natural disasters when they occur and this already legendary filling sandbags along the river, and even that the entire government is coordinating these activities on the ground without investing in prevention and without organised prevention of these natural disasters certainly are not the way. It's not a system. Of course, the path is not a budget rebalance, it's a systematic strategic action. Therefore, I must express dissatisfaction with the oral response and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a written reply in accordance with Article 132(7). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78515	Let's go to the 21st question. The respected representative, Silvano Hrelja, asked the question, i.e. he should have asked the minister of regional development and EU funds, Gabrieli Zalac. With it gone, the Prime Minister will answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78516	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, exactly 14 days ago in Brussels, Minister Gabriela Žalac made a statement in which an elevator installation project in a building that would be financed by EU funds of 85% blames the tenants of these buildings and the former government for which there is a video in the media. No matter what you say to me, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm looking for a written answer as to why the building's tenants are guilty. Is it because they're uninformed? Are they guilty because they're poor, sick, old or because they voted wrong? I remind you, Mr. Prime Minister, that on 23 March 2017, I expressed regret from this place that Minister Žalac refused to discuss this project with the associations that initiated it. A colleague of Anka Mrak Taritaš and I requested your engagement this February and the opening of a special niche to finance the installation of elevators from the mobility position of especially older citizens through changes to the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion. We have a written reply from the European Commission that proves that this is possible, and so did the representatives of the Commission at the European House in Zagreb on 31 January this year. Neither can the former government be charged with this project because the project is emerging, the project was initiated at the end of 2015 and the former government did not have to choose such a single project in the operational programme. Can you, Mr. President, initiate changes and supplement the operational programme so that this problem begins to be solved?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78517	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78518	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm sorry she's not Minister Zhalac here, so she can explain these allegations herself that you made in the context of her visit to Brussels. It is today, among other things, with representatives of the European Investment Bank, where it is looking for alternative ways to address this problem. As far as I know when the activities for this operational programme were planned, then the only way to be included in certain projects of installing elevators into buildings was through those projects that concerned me with energy efficiency. Apparently, in requests for such projects there were very few such requirements relating to elevators. Those are the facts that came to me. We may be since the topic is particularly relevant and I know that you have been dealing with it longer you know more. Looks like those funds are exhausted now. Minister Žalac, together with his team, is seeking to see if there are opportunities to agree, within this financial perspective, certain changes through these operational programmes that would allow as much as I can see now, perhaps not in that volume required, and the amount is quite large, over 500 million, but at least a few other alternative ways of solving that in this financial perspective, at least some extent address the problem with the elevators. This is what we discussed, however, let me ask her to give you further detailed information on this whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78519	Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78520	Thank you for your understanding. It is true that for more than a year I have been dealing with this problem and that I have visited many such situations, primarily in the cities of the Republic of Croatia and that at this point in our assessment there are about 60,000 people who have been blocked, therefore with limited movement in their apartments either because of disability, whether because of age, or because of lack of strength, I cannot descend to normal levels and walk to reach a certain destination. But there is another problem that even the services that these citizens should receive in their apartments in multi-story residential buildings without elevators can't come to them, or come with hard efforts whether it's an emergency medical aid, whether it's help in the house, whether it's firemen or some service services. So I think in the end, we're politicians and we're in politics. Do these people want to come to the vote or do they have to invite someone to envelope their vote? I think it would be okay if we let them go to the polls freely and vote on their conscience like everyone else. So I think we have an extraordinary opportunity and I kind of have you in front of those people that I've met and I've talked to, which have big problems, and the alternative is very expensive installation and self-financing of elevators to do, and it doesn't have to be 500 and so many millions of allocated euros, it can start with a hundred and 200 million, but it can start with the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78521	Let's move on. It is now up to representative Franco Vidovic who is asking the Prime Minister the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78522	I thank the President of the Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister and members of the government. A decision has been made at the government to buy multi-purpose fighter aircraft F-16 barracks 30, pardon block 30 barracks. Seniors between 30 and 35 and more expensive about half a billion dollars. You have repeatedly explained in public that this investment is affordable and profitable in front of the government and mentioned possible economic co-operation with Israel as a means of returning funds, i.e. money invested. To the side that a lot of the public thinks we're trading old planes for old planes. What I'm interested in is this plane procurement commission didn't represent what the remaining value of those planes would be after another 25 years of being used in the regime 100 hours a year? Or were you planning on making part of the money you're spending now to buy a plane back by selling those planes when the time comes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78523	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78524	Thank you, well-respected representative Vidovic. We'll see, they say that this Locknin Martin technology is such that it can be upgraded for a long time, so if that's the case, we might succeed and sell it for another, even better price than we'll buy today, as you say of the remaining value, say 2045 or '50. But that's what some other people will decide, not you, not me. We have had the opportunity to lead this process, the respected representative Vidovic, for the past year. The issue of obtaining multi-purpose combat aircraft is on the agenda of the various bodies of the Ministry of Defence, the Government, the Defence Council, the National Security Council, about the last 20 years as far as I know. No government had the importance of making decisions like this. We are the decision to go into the process last year, we carried out the whole procedure on the basis of requests for proposals in the concept of procurement called the Government towards the Government, so without some intermediaries, in a way where all the actors who participated in the process were able to present their offers in time, quality quality and offer what Croatia needs. We have chosen what is affordable in terms of financial resources and it does not cover any additional hidden costs, so there are no ex post costs which, according to what an evaluated offer of the state of Israel, which was ultimately chosen, could be a problem for you, for us, for this government or for anyone in the future for the next 10 years. You have also seen this visit from the Ministry of Defence delegation that lasts in essence this week, they are now in Israel and our pilots currently have a chance for the first time and fly in those F-16-barak cds which are as we can see extremely functional. What we have strategically decided is that we should be the country and here in Southeast Europe and as a member of NATO and as a member of the EU that takes a good look at the security challenges that exist today in this world in which we live and we have estimated that we do not want to be one of those states of allies or members of the Union that will give up the capabilities called aviation. We could have had that choice, we didn't want that. We did not want to do this politically because we believe that the Croatian state deserves to have combat aviation as well. The choice we have made is quality, it was by all elements of these offers far the best and financially speaking, as far as wider cooperation is concerned, you know that so-called. Ofset is gone, it does not exist in terms of rules because it does not exist, but what it has, there is certainly one message of partnership with the state of Israel that is developing and parallel to this process, it is developing both in agriculture and in the economy and in investments, and I am sure that this decision that we made in the government of the Republic of Israel two weeks ago will contribute to the overall economic exchange of land that is openly speaking is influential, but it is not only a message to Israel, it is a message to the United States, its defence industry and our attachment to have planes that guarantee Croatia safety and prevent anyone who would in the next 30 years. And tried to jeopardize our territorial integrity. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78525	Comrade Vidovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78526	Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for your response, but I must say, I am not at all impressed with him. I'm not satisfied. So, as if we're looking from two different countries, that's how you answered me. First, the whole process marked intransparency and haste. You yourself have defined the deadlines to which you will decide to purchase the plane, etc., and then extend it to maximum. The whole process was also marked by a series of major or smaller scandals from your meeting with the Israeli prime minister in Davos, after which she leaked to Israeli media famous information about the purchase of aircraft by Croatia as a business done before any decision in Croatia, until the company in which your deputy prime minister of defense was employed, the defence minister co-operates with Israeli companies, and with those in the defence sector. In addition, it is a kind of scandal for me to send a Croatian Air Force pilot to the media to defend your political decision and to praise those planes. We in the SDP supported the intention of getting these new aircraft but not this kind of procurement, and I would dare say no to this choice. This is a bad decision that will have serious economic consequences for the Republic of Croatia. You emphasized that yourself, the decision to sell it will not be made by you or me, but by some other people, so you leave it on the burden of future generations, but it is in your conscience that you end up dealing with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78527	The 23rd issue of Honored Representative Martha Luc-Polanc, also Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78528	I thank President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Prime Minister, my question concerns the problem of water pollution in Slavonski Brod. On Monday, so two days ago, citizens of Slavonski Brod brought notice that they now have proper and drinking water. However, citizens are very upset, the news has not been accepted with confidence and most citizens today do not yet consume water in Slavonski Brod. And why this is so, namely the whole crisis situation that lasted one week and a half days has been marked by numerous conflicts and political bickerings between your government's ministers and the mayor of Duspar. In doing so, your Minister Ćoric accused that our water treatment system, i.e. the entire water treatment system, is not adequate, that it is abandoned and that the purifiers have come out of service. Namely, there are very serious accusations and believe the citizens are very upset because now they are not sure about their own, they are not sure about water consumption for their health. So I have you specifically, on the other hand, Mayor Duspara accused the government of hiding something. Well, I have two specific questions I'd like to ask you. The first question, if the government isn't covering anything up, and if everything was transparent, which is why we in the town of Brod so far haven't received a report of the competent inspections that were on the ground, which is a sanitary inspection, a water inspection, an environmental inspection, so far, we're interested in what the competent inspection has found on the ground. And number two, since you've announced that water is correct and healthy to consume, I'm asking you how can you guarantee it and be sure that, to date, we don't know what's causing the pollution? How can you guarantee that water will not be polluted by hydrocarbons tonight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78529	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78530	Thank you, lovely representative Luc-Polanc, this seems to me to be the third question since this morning regarding Slavonski Brod, but this is good and normal because the crisis was relevant. So first, with all due respect to the government, none of us here is a public health expert, nor is he an expert in competent bodies that sample and examine the contents of the water samples taken in Slavonski Brod. Everything that has been done has been done according to the rules of the profession both by the Ministry of Health and Competent Services and by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. The news that has been published and the news behind which those who have seen the quality of water in the waterway Slavonski Brod, we are talking about Jelas and at this point it is such that both for drinking and cooking is the most important thing. So I don't see why you or any of the other citizens of Slavonski Brod should not believe at this point after a study that lasted practically every day, as far as I've known since this crisis occurred. So that's the first message. The second is regarding the work of inspection services, ministers have asked all competent services, including the Ministry of the Interior to investigate what happened and the pollution, so we are talking about putting into operation the product pipeline in order to address the strategic problem, which is air pollution through the gasification of the Refinery of the Oil Ship. The second is to see if the problem that occurred in the area when it comes out of the highway and the height of the gas station at the entrance to Slavonski Brod is at all related to water pollution, because it is not right next to each other as far as I was informed and familiar at the headquarters meeting. So we need to find out if there's a causal connection between that and what happened. When all the relevant inspections and services are established, then we will be able to categorically claim what really happened. What I did for myself was order all ministers, all services to make it clear. The government's goal here is no political conflict with the leaders of units of local and regional self-government, on the contrary. We were practically the next day of the news five members of the government in Slavonski Brod, talked to all the actors there, came in good faith and Minister Tolusic when it came to veterinary and Damir Krstičević, co-ordinator of Homeland Security and Minister of Health about Public Health and Minister Tolusic about Water Protection. So we were all here. And there's not a single element that I'm looking at and in the course of solving that problem and now ex post I see as anything that's missed by the state level, on the contrary, it's done immediately, it's done effectively, it's done quickly and it's all in the middle of the Easter holidays. That's what it was. Whether this topic wants to be used politically, to point out, in a way to criticise the government or the government, that's O.K., that's something that's normal, I've learned on a number of topics right now, but at this point it doesn't matter, what's important is trust in professional institutions that are in charge of saying what the quality of water is and for all bodies that are going to conduct thorough investigations and lead us to a firm conclusion of what happened and why. And that we have responded to the alternative direction also says that the Sikirevets Wateryard will virtually connect to the water system for Slavonski Brod and you will be able to get water with Jelas in the event of a crisis and other way. Therefore, for the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding municipalities here, we have done everything in our power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78531	Thank you. Before showing a respected representative, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Hotel-Tourist School of Opatija. Welcome. Give it up! Here you go, dear Mata Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78532	Thank you. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I thank you for your reply, but I'm not satisfied with the answer because I don't think he was specific enough. In fact, you state that if the Public Health Act has confirmed that the water is correct, that it is enough in itself. And then I ask you, which is why the representatives of the four ministries came into the field to solve the crisis situation, if it's enough now that only one body independently of all other causes decides whether the water is correct. So I believe in finding the Department of Public Health and that nobody slows down, but we still don't know what polluted that water, so that finding that it's right today, so tomorrow it can be polluted again. As for your allegations that the government acted quickly and efficiently, I would like to say that speed is not always and quality, therefore we believe that the representatives of the Government should have come continuously to crisis headquarters and better quality to inform the population of the city of Brod, and especially related to these inspection controls that I have listed because you are in your response mixing inspection and surveillance investigations. So, the government has competent inspections that could immediately provide us with reports on the situation on the ground and as a third, related to indictments and political crackdowns with the government, I continue to object to the fact that Minister Coric has seriously accused the local government in the town of Brod that the water system is not well maintained and I want it to be answered whether this is true accusations, if they are true, which will be taken or is about mere political accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78533	24 questions representative Ante Babic asks Minister of Labour and Pension System Marko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78534	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Pavic. All macroeconomic indicators are actually talking about continuing positive trends, GDP is growing already several quarters, the Republic of Croatia has actually come out of the excessive deficit process by reducing deficits and the public debt due to which credit rating has actually been corrected. The tourist season was record this year, the tax reform gave its big results, the Standard & Poor's agency actually raised Croatia in last year's rating from BB to BB+ with stable prospects. The Fitch agency also raised a 1-degree credit rating in January 2018, which has not actually happened since 2004, and we should all, all of this should be felt by Croatian citizens. So I ask you what steps the Government of the Republic of Croatia is taking to reflect this positive movement on the labour market, what is the government doing and what is it going to do to reduce unemployment, i.e. increase employment and perhaps a third thing, not so much, is important, because Croatia is a Central European country and the Mediterranean country, a tourist country, and what will the government actually do to prepare a new tourist season? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78535	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78536	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleagues and fellow ministers, MPs. Thank you very much to the honourable representative for asking. It's true. We expect the first quarter of 2018 to be the 15th quarter in which we have continued GDP growth and annual growth of almost, or over 3%, respectively. Positive economic trends are reflected in the labour market. Right now we've got a little over 172 thousand unemployed. We have among the biggest unemployment declines in the EU. We are aware of the issues of moving young people, but we are also aware that in 2017 we were the third country in the EU after employment growth, 3.8% of employment increased, i.e. according to EUROSTAT and the State Statistics Office, we have 60,000 more workers in the last quarter of 2017 than a year before. This certainly contributed to the government's policy and measures of the active employment policy launched by Prime Minister Plenkovic on 1.3.2017. Today, the main problem of employers is not even high taxes, which we have reduced by tax reform, nor is it a complicated process of legislation, but a lack of quality labour. Yesterday I was in a meeting with a minister in the French government who just pointed out that the situation and France, which has a similar unemployment rate, is crucial that we do not have a qualified workforce. The government wants to primarily activate domestic labour. For this year's employment package, we've secured more than 2.6 billion kuna. Of these 1.6 billion kunas, most of which are financed from the European Social Fund are active employment policy measures, and we have a programme for women employment in rural areas, youth employment programmes and people with disabilities. As far as the measures are concerned, we have strengthened the traineeship in a way that we have introduced for the private sector that they can pay for trainees without restrictions, and the state will co-finance half their total salary costs, in other words, if someone wants to hire an IT engineer at the salary of 10 000 kn, for the first year half of which the state will co-finance him. For our self-employment, we have greatly strengthened the measure and we have increased subsidies, we have increased the way and the attractive one, we have a third more self-employment applications this year than the last one, and Croatia is by the share of numbers that are self-employed among the last in the EU and we need to strengthen that. The issue of domestic labour and ensuring what you said about the tourist season is our key. We want to activate our domestic labour force, we have surveyed all 170 and a few thousand unemployed, 24 000 of them expressed their desire to work in the tourist season, I thank Minister Cappelli for his excellent cooperation, we have organized the days of business in tourism, and in this way we have combined those 24,000 people with employers. We have also increased the permits to import labour force, but I repeat our goal is to activate domestic labour force, I was recently in Ukraine with the Minister of Labour, we have agreed on a Memorandum of Cooperation and our wish is also so that very nearly HZZ and their employment office sign a similar memorandum that will establish the situation. So we have a total package of 2.6 billion kunas that we want to absolutely activate young people and stop emigration from the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78537	Thank you. Appearance of fellow Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78538	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am grateful for your response. I remember very well that last year we had 1 and a half billion funds related to active employment measures. This year it's 2.6 billion, as you said, so almost 100%. Especially cheerful these measures that you have stated about pay, for co-financing of salaries for trainees but also for persons with disabilities and their social inclusion and for the programme... Happy and for the tourist season, for preparing the tourist season together with the Ministry of Tourism, you have now highlighted this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like all these measures to reach all young people because you have pointed out yourself that the demographic image in the Republic is bad and that every family, every young man should recognize himself in these measures and actually prevent him from going from the Republic of Croatia. Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78539	Now let's go to 25 questions. Representative Branko Hrg is appointed by the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the issue concerns, of course, traffic security in the area of the town of Križevci and surrounding municipalities, as well as the entire Koprivnica-Kryzevci County. In fact, several times already in the Croatian Roads programme was the construction of overpasses on the state road 22, that is the road Novi Marof-St. Ivan Žabno. Now that the fast road section of Cugovec-Križevci has been opened, the traffic at the railway crossing has been significantly increased and are now even more stalemate. As a matter of fact, on the DC 28 road which is taught to DC 22 is a huge problem also with traffic safety, it is that part of the section through St. John's Frog where traffic accidents often occur. There, too, it would be necessary to perform certain procedures, increase safety, build walking paths, cycling paths to ensure traffic and to ensure that pedestrians can move along the roads more smoothly or cyclists. My question is, is it in the plan and when is the opening of the tender for overpass in the Crossroads through the railway crossing? And what is it, what activities are now under way regarding insurance to say increasing road safety through the Municipality of St. John Frog on the route of Cugovec-Bjelovar?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78541	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78542	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Both the project you have set and mentioned in your question is in the plan of Croatian roads, in the plan of building and maintaining public roads for the period 2017/20. the year, and are also in the plan of building and maintaining state roads for 2018. As for the first project of overpasses above the railway line in Križevci, at the end of this year will be submitted a request for a construction permit, I apologize at the end of June, sometime by summer and afterwards, since in the Croatian Roads plan for this year it is planned to amount to 14 million kuna, about 14 million. Kuna will be called for to begin the construction of this overpass in the third quarter of this year. As regards the reconstruction of the D28 State Road, the construction of the project documentation is under way and it is realistic that we will have a construction permit in early 2019, after which a tender for the reconstruction of the D28 state road will be opened from Gradec to St. John the Frog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78543	Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78544	Thank you very much. I am convinced that your answer will cheer up the people who live in that area. The fact is that the special area of Koprivnica and Križevci County has been a number of years, all these years in maintaining and increasing security on the state roads is a terrible waste and that there should really be a huge effort there to do something, and that is also the road Novi Marof-St. Ivan Žabno, it is a road of course Križevci-Koprivnica and at least until the moment until there is a continuation of the construction of the fast road Križevci-Koprivnica, which I believe will happen during the term of office of this government and that this security will absolutely improve in the area so that people can safely and traffic, and also, move through the settlements on foot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78545	The 26th question, respected representative Ivana Nincevic-Lesandric, asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78546	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, since we have not seen more significant moves than this government has ever seen, so the conditions for safe and healthy growth and development resulting in and the creation of jobs have already been seen by entrepreneurs, and especially when I say entrepreneurs, I mean micro, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, unfortunately, relyed on the only opportunity they had, which is grants. Minister Dalic, therefore, abolished last year a single competition that micro-small entrepreneurs and craftsmen had just for that purpose. The answer to that from Minister Dalic was that they would have an adequate substitute for funding, which cannot possibly be an answer, because the financial resources were not, financial instruments are not e-impulse grants. So my question is to you exactly how, in which way, by means of funds and by which means of national, which measures you will encourage entrepreneurship since you often mention it in your speeches and talk about encouraging entrepreneurship, and I do not see even in the indicative competition plan, or in national means that there are certain means to encourage entrepreneurship. And when I talk about micro and small entrepreneurs, I talk about over 90% of entrepreneurs from the total number of entrepreneurs. If I'm not wrong, I'm 98% wrong. So I'd like you to answer this question, because that would mean that you actually know what you're saying every time you mention encouraging entrepreneurship. And I'm interested in exactly what a replacement is, so for the e-impulse we've had so far, and we've had a long series of years that's successfully yielded results and opened jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78547	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78548	All right, I'm glad to see you, Agent Lesandric, sorry to hear from you, Minister Dalic. However, here is Minister Dalic, who now complements me that the new tender, which you spoke about, will be opened in June with additional European grants. Therefore, it seems to me that when you look at the overall activity that we have done and on the new Public Procurement Act and on tax reform, administrative discharge, aid to entrepreneurs, the Law on research projects in entrepreneurship, strategic investment. Everything we have done is directed towards the easier business of Croatian entrepreneurs and in general Croatian economies were those of large, small or micro entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that the ministry continues to improve the overall business climate in the Republic of Croatia through all its measures and all its activities, that you have a stable and predictable tax framework, that we are working on increasing the efficiency of work and state administration and resolving a number of leftover cases in the Croatian judiciary, that there are activities in the fight against corruption, then what you are saying is affirmative for business in Croatia and for attracting foreign investment. That's what we're working on, that's what the Ministry of Economy will work on. If you want the Minister to write you an additional written reply about all these elements that interest you in a specific programme, for specific funds. We can do that, but in any case everything the Ministry of Economy does is intended to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and among other things craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia including cooperation with the Ministry of Science about vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78549	Here's your reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78550	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, if you say the Ministry continues to improve the conditions for entrepreneurs through grants, then we do not cancel a tender that has had the best results of all competitions for entrepreneurs within, so EU funds, and we are continuing it. And then we certainly don't say that we're going to cancel it because we're going to replace it with adequate financial instruments. Financial instruments are not the grants you had in the e-impulse. I mean, that's something, that's something every minister just needs to know. So, it can't happen, and then in 2018, we in the indicative competition plan have absolutely no substitute for it, but we still have only credit left. And as for national funds, we don't have any more than three and a half million kuna. It's not enough to encourage micro-small entrepreneurship and craftsmen. And if we have anything to learn so far that the only healthy basis for economic development is these micro and small entrepreneurs, then it's Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78551	Thank you. The 27th question by Siniša Hajdas Doncic points to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78552	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. I asked you on January 17th how 326 officials were going to be elected by the authorities of the state administration. I asked if they would be selected by the party key by local organisations or by the HDZ centre? Afterwards, I asked your member the same question, so the minister of the administration who answered me a few days ago that party staffing is out of the question, that all people are chosen according to certain qualifications. I say no! And then I read in or read in the newspaper, and they say this: “Your brother-in-law became director at Dubrovnik Airport, your cousin became head of the Croatian Tourist Board in Germany, your uncle entered the Administrative Council of Biokova, your best man became ambassador to Great Britain, son of your mother’s cousin became the Rector of Split University, etc. So, as the Dallas Dynasty, Santa Barbara and so on, I'm wondering if it's true and whether you've taken a step further or perhaps a step lower, so you're no longer hiring on a party key but only in the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78553	The Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78554	Dear Vice President of the Highash-Doncic Parliament, thank you for this matter. I'll start from the last one, so my mom's first cousin is the wife of the new Rector of Split University. How do you choose the reactors? What do you think the government chooses the rectors, is there some invisible way, an invisible hand, an invisible hand that chooses the rectors? Oh, yeah. Nothing, I suggest you Google a little bit, take a look at the CV and the achievements of Prof. Dr. Dragan Ljvic, who was the Dean of the Medical Faculty before I was Prime Minister. A man is old enough to present his career and his life's journey very well. As for the UK Ambassador Igor Showed, exactly, I was his best man in 1998 but there were your best men and your former prime minister and your representative. I didn't notice anyone rebelling about it, we're like a generation, a man spent his entire career in diplomacy and became an ambassador to the UK. If that's any problem, I have to admit, I don't know what logic that should be a problem. As for my mother's brother, you mean Mr. Raos who became a member of the Administrative Council, Nature Park Biokovo, as a councilman in the City Council of Makarska. A man who has experience there about the functioning of the city, the functioning of the economy, the nature park, the county hunting alliance, so let's say for the last 50 years about. And I don't know what Minister Ćorić's fee is, one 300 or 400 kuna probably for that. So there's an eclectic conflict of interest that must have been implicated in your sentences. As for Mrs Nere Milic, who became head of the HTZ office in Munich, it is therefore a lady who was employed by Riva Tours, Germany's most important tour operator for the Croatian market. He's got all the qualifications. He also speaks several languages including German as Croatian because he lives there. She went to a public competition and was the best. As for Mr. Maslač, man has been working for more than 10 years on public procurement issues in the city of Dubrovnik and has moved to duty at Dubrovnik Airport, on similar jobs in a way that has nothing to do with me, but has to do with the operation of the airport. Therefore, all these topics are open, they are public, I see that a whole series of parliamentary issues are based on the reading of newspapers, and I'm glad that you as Deputy Prime Minister read the paper and ask questions. That's all, there's nothing else, and this second one can be answered by Minister Kuscevic if you're interested in anything else. What I said to the media, too, can't be people who have their own way of life because someone is on duty to stop in their activities or to stop them in their careers. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78555	Here's a colleague of Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78556	Your Honorary Prime Minister, I'm actually pleased with your response, but I'll give you one piece of advice that maybe it's better to go back to the party's key to staffing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78557	Let's go to the 28th question, dear colleague Marko Vedligaj, asks the question also to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78558	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, respected members of the government, the Honorable Prime Minister. The rural space of the Republic of Croatia has been hit by an elemental accident which, some get bigger and some get smaller media treatment. Some of the members of the government have been provided with funds to resuscitate the gliders, as some of the members of the government have said today. I want to believe that it will really be because the figures don't exactly match, if we know here that only the damages in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County are 112 million kuna and from all those sources, the vice president said there are 150 million kunas, of which so far is only competitions for 10 million kunas. But, well, we'll see, as we'll be told in Zagorje, how many of these funds will be and which units of local self-government will get them. But in addition to the recovery of the infrastructure, i.e. the rink, we do not do it systematically but provide the funds in part, I will remind you that both the former government and the vice president know that they have received certain funds from the Government of Zoran Milanovic. But my question is actually focused on something much more important for local self - government units, much more important for rural areas, which is one of the social capital and the building of that social capital. We have put a lot of hope in the rural development programme, in measure 7.4.1. which was meant to ensure the construction of kindergartens, cultural centres, firehouses, sports playgrounds in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the results of the competition are such that only 101 projects of 464 have been approved. It is announced again that this measure will only be taken by preschool institutions, which I welcome. But with millions of kunas spent on project documentation for construction, I repeat once again cultural centres, firehouses, sports playgrounds, and many other social purposes that are very important for local units. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78559	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78560	As far as this question is concerned, I'm going to ask the Minister of Agriculture, here's to give you a full written report because I have no idea where exactly what was built and what was being financed. As for the elemental disasters, we have already answered the same in an earlier question today. So the funds that exist from the Croatian roads, the County Road Administrations, if there are such scales in Krapina-Zagorje County that cost units of local self-government to break the budget for the cost of winter service, I assume that this is also the case for possible damage caused by possible slopes, slides or anything else that has disrupted local infrastructure, we will also ask the Croatian Roads and the competent Ministry of Transport to see how additional funds can be found to help these local and regional self-government units. I know that this question was on the agenda, and I think it's the County Assembly if I'm not mistaken, and we'll see from the side of the country what resources we can help replace those costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78561	It's obvious, Mr. Vesligai, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78562	Here I can tell the esteemed Croatian Prime Minister that I am not satisfied with your response, especially I am not satisfied with the response to measure 7.4.1. So I expected you to at least respond in a way that at least for these three important segments that exist and which are extremely important for the survival of people in smaller rural areas, cultures, fire and sport. Look, we need to do the infrastructure, it's the first and most important thing, to open jobs, of course. But without those things, if we don't make it possible, if we don't make it happen, those best-quality people who hold a municipality or a city that pushes that community or city forward will go. They're not just running away because of small wages, first because of that, of course, but they're actually running away because of one of the backbones that we have. And we can only overcome it through better quality and better education and we can overcome it through culture, and unfortunately it has disappeared in our small environments, and that is why we have put a lot of hope into these European funds and now it is the local units that, I will say medium-developed, and let's just say, they have no more opportunities to report to EU funds. The paperwork will expire and then what? Millions will turn out to be thrown into the wind. I appeal to you to find opportunities through the ministries, through some other lines, however, that however, these money spent on these project documentation, and not only local units, numerous associations also collected money in all possible ways and invested in this project documentation that at least some of these funds are realised, not that we have more than half of it not built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78563	Question number 29, MP Ljubica Maksimčuk asks the Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78564	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, Honored Minister Ćoric. My question, of course, concerns Slavonski Brod and the pollution of the water that my fellow citizens have hit for Easter this year. In fact, the water samples from March 30th and the hydrocarbons in them were almost 20 times the maximum quantity allowed. What happened in Slavonski Brod since the tests showed that the water was the same as before the findings for which it was banned from drinking? Is there an investigation going on, and what stage is it? The SB is losing confidence in the institutions because the findings have not been available for days. On the other hand, my fellow citizens are grateful to all of Croatia who has made themselves available, sacrificed firefighters, police officers, soldiers, the Red Cross, volunteers, as well as the Government who responded in one day and secured the supply of Brodjan with drinking water. Following this, we hope that the investigation will be quick and effective, such as the help that has arrived at the SB and that it will be responsible for what they have organised for the Easter Brodjans. And of course what's connected to this, and what's been bothering my fellow citizens for years, is this going to slow down the refinery gasification process in the Bosnian ship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78565	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78566	Thank you. Madam Honorable Representative Maximchuk, first of all, I thank you for your question. So with regard to the cause of water pollution, i.e. extremely high amounts of hydrocarbons in water samples from March 30th of this year in water from a whole series of SB sites, we unfortunately have no causes at this time, or we cannot yet say with certainty what the causes are. What we at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are definitely waiting for are the results of an investigation by the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. the State's Attorney's Office on this matter and trust me no one will be happier than us to find out the causes of this eco, that is, this water pollution. What is cheerful is the fact that at this point, through a whole series of samplings that occurred after 30 March of this year, we have clean findings, i.e. where the level of hydrocarbon is below the limit values, hence the finding, or the opinion of the commission which has been declared the right water for drinking, or cooking. Of course, we definitely sympathise with the citizens of SB and the municipality of SB and as a result of the fact that this eco incident happened right in front of Usrks himself and given the fact that ten days were without drinking water from the water supply system, however, as you stated in your question, competent institutions, the State Department of Protection and Rescue, Croatian Water, Fire Department, all reacted as soon as we found out that the water was not for drink and can only support you with a few details the involvement of professional services on the ground in those 10 days. So over 600,000 gallons of bottled water is divided into citizens of SB, at one point, or we had 16 tanks on the ground, which from the supply supply, which from other institutions, made the MUP, which the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, over 60 tanks with water received from 1000 liters. So all this time there was a continuous supply of alternative sources. Meanwhile, as you know, right after Easter, work began on Easter Monday to connect the water supply system, i.e. the Slavonski Brod, with the Sikirevci water station. This merger is complete, at this time there are additional tests, i.e. a pressure test, i.e. disinfection tube, and we believe that, within the specified time period, this system of power supply from the Sikirevac will be as stated. What is certainly good to point out is the fact that the Jelas waterworks are currently being used and we are happy about it, and we must not forget the fact that about 100 million kunas of Croatian waters have been invested for the device at the Jelas water supply site in 2000, i.e. in 2001. As regards the process of gasification of the ship refinery, which was also mentioned today during the debate, therefore, of course this eco incident, of course, that the investigation that is still taking place, that they have stopped the work on the product pipeline survey, we hope that, after determining the cause of this eco incident, it will be possible to go towards the gasification of the refinery of the ship because we hold that after many years the inhabitants of Slavonski Brod and the surrounding municipalities So, the Ship-Posavina County breathes in the polluted air and that will be the solution to air pollution. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78567	Comrade Maximchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78568	Thank you very much. Of course, I am pleased with the answer, but here again on behalf of all the boatmen and residents of the neighbouring municipalities who had this water problem, I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia and everyone who hastily responded and provided the boaters with clean water supplies, but of course, what we are looking forward to, we expect a quick investigation because the boaters of course are very interested in this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78569	Thank you. Now it is the honourable representative Ivan Kirin who asks the question of Health Minister Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78570	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with his associates. Compared to 35 European countries, the Croatian healthcare system in the last year was located only at 26th place of quality and availability according to the surveyed parameters of the European health consumer index. A year ago, or 2016, the Republic of Croatia was 19th place, and in 2017 we fell 7 places and we were behind the health systems of Macedonia, Montenegro and Slovenia. Last year, there were increased allocations for innovative new drugs, 7 new magnetic resonance devices were purchased, new CT devices, new mammographs, priority waiting lists were introduced, and as far as hip surgery and character operations are concerned, there has been no change in the last two years. Question to Mr. Minister, do you think it's a real picture or will it be different when all the data is delivered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78571	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78572	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, Dr. Kirin. You've asked a lot of questions here, so if I don't answer everything, I'll deliver it in writing. As far as the availability of a Croatian healthcare system and the assessment of an agency is concerned, it is a relative matter and nothing happens in one year, large or small, and mainly not in the health system. So, some of the things that have been scored, conditionally said, have moved the Republic of Croatia down, and that no bad things have happened, especially since it was measured in this index. These are such small procedures and conditionally speaking factors that do not endanger the health system, which you, especially as a doctor, understand well. At the same time, however, the European Commission's assessment came in as one of the most relevant assessments, where you saw that in fact the Croatian health system has been assessed with positive shifts and has primarily assessed very good integration, functional integration of hospitals. Also, I will not announce in advance, you will see when much more relevant studies come out soon in Europe that the Republic of Croatia is taking a significantly better place on the European and world scale. That doesn't mean we don't have to fix things and change things. And that's exactly what the European Commission has given us, in terms of functional integration we continue on this trail as one commitment, but as a confirmation of the right direction. So, not only have we functionally connected 12 hospitals and, conditionally speaking, we will achieve certain financial savings. We're actually going to track down to raise quality, raise patient safety, and only in third place, store material resources. The real change that will take place and the biggest professional and financial step will take place in the city of Zagreb with the construction of the National Children's Hospital in phase A, and in phase B with the construction of the National University Hospital. Only then will you actually do what is necessary, especially when you watch the Croatian health system tomorrow. So, in the decades ahead of us. Only then will progress be made in terms of quality conservation, human resources retention in Croatia and, of course, large financial savings. And before that, of course, we have to fight for what we have every day and on this trail we got what you mentioned, 7 magnetic resonances, to make it more accessible to patients throughout the Republic, with one note. It wasn't just a professional shift, there was also a financial shift where the Ministry of Health encouraged joint procurement actually on these 7 magnetic resonances that we obtained together for all we actually made savings for two more. So we made savings somewhere around 14 to 15 million kunas. So, on the trail of a difficult resort, the cost of the health system throughout the world preserves quality, preserves availability and, of course, preserves human resources in Croatia, and that ultimately binds us and is the European Commission's assessment. And the estimates that will come from other sources will be the same on a positive note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78573	Thank you, Minister. It's obvious. Here you go, colleague Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78574	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think from your answer we here and all the citizens realized that it wasn't all as black as it presents 26th place on the list. With its 1241 euros per capita and Circ. 7.4 per cent of GDP cuts at the bottom of the EU country's health care scale. Despite the problematic economic context and major budgetary pressures, however, Croatia continues to provide public-funded health services with access to its citizens, where the scope of the right paid out of compulsory insurance is extremely large and includes most services. At the same time, we need to know that 7.4% of GDP is significantly lower than in the EU where it is 9.9%. At the same time 15% of the contributions paid to health care by Croatian citizens are on the EU average, but we must take into account the standards there. So this year, or 20o17. In the first place is the Netherlands, followed by Switzerland and Denmark, which, along with a good organisation, have significantly higher income per capita of their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78575	Let's go to the 31st question, respected representative Ante Bacic is asking the question to Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78576	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government with ministers. Here's my question to Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstičević. Here we daily follow the presence of the Croatian Army which is definitely selflessly helping the population on the ground and in defence against the floods, here are the past these holidays and in the area of Slavonski Brod. I am also interested in my question to you as to whether this is precisely what all the efforts and aspirations of the Ministry of Defence have been made for the past year and the purpose of the adoption of the Law itself on the system of homeland security and the purpose of the concept and system itself, which the ministry has been building for the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78577	Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78578	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Bacic, for asking the question. Gentlemen and MPs, Mr. President, so I think that we are all together aware that the security paradigm has changed significantly, and while we have once faced conventional security threats, territorial integrity and state sovereignty today, just the threats of terrorism-related challenges, then economic crises, climate change that are causing major, small disasters again. Then there is cyber terrorism, then hybrid action, and rightly aware of that, at the beginning of the term of office, this government did an analysis of the current state of the national security system. And what we recognized, we recognized for the need to need a home security system, that we needed a security partnership. And as you know, the first thing we did was start making a national security strategy. What is important, what we have concluded is that we need a safety partnership in Croatia, and it is from this safety partnership that comes from a system of homeland security that needs to rest on respect for human rights, on human security, on the security of each individual, on solidarity, on community, on synergy. And one of the objectives of the National Security Strategy has just been the establishment of a home security system. The home security system in Croatia must be modern, must be comprehensive, rational, efficient and it must suit both our tradition and our needs. The foundation of this system is precisely the synergy of the local community and the state administration, and I think that synergy, we heard from the Prime Minister that it also appeared in the fires, floods, snowfalls, even the latest floods and this last eco incident we had in Slavonski Brod. The second thing is a very important response to all the components of the system and the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and the Croatian Army, Croatian Police, Fire Department, Mountain Rescue Services, citizens in certain situations. And what is very important and the key is precisely timely reactions, i.e. preventive measures. And clearly what I keep pointing out is that the Croatian Army and that the tasks of the Croatian Army are precisely helping the people in trouble and that we are actively doing so and we will continue to do so. I would commend here all the elements of the Homeland Security System on this entire engagement and military and police and the State Department for the protection and rescue and fire and the Mountain Rescue Service and the locals and people on professionality, responsibilities when we have such events. I think it is clear to all of us that safety is a prerequisite for the economic development of Croatia and what the home security system should guarantee to all people in Croatia, that at any time when there is a situation like this, Croatia will react, firmly, firmly, resolutely and precisely, and in this context, this decision to obtain a multi-purpose combat plane from the state of Israel, Barak, is in the post of deterrence, i.e. in the function of peace and security in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78579	Thank you. A fellow representative, just a little while ago, would like to welcome the students and students of the Construction Technical School from Zagreb, who are with us at the gallery. Welcome. ... Here you go, colleague Bačić. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78580	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your response. I can only congratulate you in these last year, on all the efforts that the ministry and you've submitted, just that you've organized this kind of system of homeland security, that it's proven to be possible. Congratulations on fighting for more resources for our armed forces, so congratulations to our members of the armed forces on your engagement and preparedness in these very crisis situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78581	The 32nd question, MP Marijan Hustic, asks Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78582	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow representatives. My question is to be addressed to Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic. We follow investments both in technology and equipment, when it comes to police officers, of course for better quality and better work and security of citizens. But what I find equally important is that I follow the whole work, as well as the former employee of the Ministry of the Interior, I think it's important to invest in the very infrastructure in the spaces and rooms used by the cops, so here, I have one question for you too. What condition you have found at the Ministry of the Interior, in terms of facilities used by the police, do you have a defined long-term plan to improve the conditions of police work, as well as to raise the level of provision of services to citizens and activities of more significant investment in capital facilities in terms of the restoration or application of police premises in relation to the management of real estates which, in my knowledge, have not been renewed for more than 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78583	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78584	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Well, the fact is that some of the neighbouring investments in more work space and real estate owned by the Ministry of the Interior, in fact, there wasn't. What has been done in the past few years, which has been the most related to the Schengen programme, and in this term we have opened a police station in Cettingrad, which was the same from this programme in 2012. As you said, therefore, after we, I would say, also parallel to resolving the issue of insufficient equipment for, and this basic equipment for police officers and officials, we have parallel to this made an insight into the state of the property. And I must say, that the situation, which is actually below the level of what should be the standard of the work of Croatian police officers and police officers, as well as the standard of services that police administrations provide to Croatian citizens. And given the level of these problems and the current dynamics of their resolution, we have concluded, if we continue at that pace, not that we will not solve the problem, but that standard will continue to fall and the situation will be worse than today. And that's why we're going into one change, I'd say total paradigms, we're going with a new strategy, which includes something that hasn't been used enough until yesterday, which is the withdrawal of funds from EU funds, for energy recovery, and in this part is in the preparation of documentation for more than 20 police stations. I can also list them from Slavonski Brod, Čakovec, Karlovac, Požega, Benkovec, Obrovec, Donja Stubice, Solin, Donji Miholjca, Orahovica, Otokac, Daruvara, Pazin, Buje, Petrinje, Jastrebarski, Otocen, Zlatar Bistrica, Grubišno Polje and Dubrava in Zagreb and police station in Ples. So that's that energy recovery set. Then we went into intensive contact with local administration units, with cities and municipalities, and I have to say that we came across an extremely good response, i.e. an echo. In these contacts, it is important to me that everyone understands at the local level that investing in police is actually in the interest of the local community, so that we have a whole series of activities related to solving the rents of business premises and the auditor of some rentals, which were unfairly high, then helping the unit local administration to resolve the accommodation issue and also the overhead costs for police officers and officials coming from other parts of Croatia, but signing an agreement related to the editing and rescheduling of these spaces. So, here we have recently opened Đurđevac, Island, signed agreements with Metkovic, with Knin, in preparation Đakovo and Čepin, Rovinj and Novalja, we are addressing the issue of accommodation. With Zagreb, we have a plan of four police stations to solve the total, so, here, that's the dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78585	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78586	Thank you very much, Minister. Indeed, here I congratulate you on the work and effort you are making, certainly, I am pleased with your answer, especially when it comes to the police station itself in Novalja and the settlement and their accommodation because we know that, especially with us down on the island, it must be a big problem in the tourist season. Here's every commendation for both you and all the police officers at work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78587	The 33rd question, Honored Representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78588	Dear Prime Minister, your mandate, regardless of your real intentions on this day, is marked by the following facts: the ambassador of a large and powerful state whose influence you allegedly should have limited in one Croatian weekly to achieve special goals, you would say hybrid goals, an authorised interview said that the goal of his country is to make Croatia an energy-dependent country. Just during your term of office, a Croatian company concluded a ten-year agreement on the delivery of gas with a majority-owned company from which the ambassador is coming. At the time of your term of office, Agrokor has escalated the case, and the epilogue is that banks in the majority owner of the ambassador state individually become the majority owners of Agrokor. Don't blame me on this factical sedition as an introduction to a particular question. As you know, Mr. Oreshkovic's government has made a strategic decision on the construction of a floating Ing terminal on the island of Krk, which would further strengthen and guarantee Croatian energy independence, effectively disabling dependence on anyone. Meanwhile, there has been an alleged spontaneous gathering of peoples in the Primorje-Goran County with the support of power that hasn't changed in 73 years, against this project, whose spontaneous spontaneity is equal to the spontaneous drinking of yogurt on the Novosad streets of 80 and some years. The specific question is, will you and when will you go to this House with the announced lex eng or will you delay And eventually succumb to the pressures of the ecological communicator and thus to make Croatia's announced energy addiction a permanent state. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78589	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78590	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, thank Representative Hasanbegovic for this matter. I suggest that later this rebus with one company, one ambassador, one state translate to the press, I decrypted it. As for the LNG terminal project in Krk, it goes on. So I don't see why that would be, and in any way, we had about a month and a half ago a big conference in Croatia dedicated to energy policy. We made it quite clear that this project was moving on. You had an environmental impact study where the committee was voting, I think 14 2 if I remember well within the Ministry of Environmental Protection, you had a project presented to the European Commission, then the minister was Dobrović, a fellow member of the Most, where we received 101m euros for the implementation of the project. The ministry has prepared and agreed with other resolutions of a special law to be presented to the Croatian Parliament in order to achieve this project with a very simple goal, which is to diversify the supply routes of Croatia with energy resources, in this particular case with gas. A competent company called LNG Croatia plays an important role in choosing what is important. FSRU orita unit, i.e. a ship that would be of course floating, on Krk, which would have the possibility, which is what is important for environmental protection, whether it will have any effect on the environment or not. There are the same ships with two species we can freely say the effects and impacts on the environment, those who have and those who do not. Those who have no influence are a little more expensive, those who have a little less expensive. However, the whole context of chlorine in the sea is, in my opinion, more than fabricated as a kind of problem. As for our commitment not to depend on only one country or on the resources of energy that come from only one direction, it is more than clear, this project will be realised primarily for the sake of Croatian interests, and the LNG terminal in Krk also means an important strategic role of drawing Croatia on the energy map of Europe, its impact on other countries of Middle Eastern Europe, and in this way I think we will achieve a much more favourable position if you want to in economic terms as regards Croatia. So the project goes on, I don't see anyone questioning him. The sport called spontaneous gatherings is quite wide lately, it is not the only spontaneous sport that is going on, so that every spontaneous sport should always be answered with arguments and that's what we do and that's what we do, the government conducts dialogue with both the Primorje-Gorski County and with the leaders in Omislje. Do we agree on everything, that's another question. What we will certainly do is we will not allow an anti-development, anti-investment climate, climate that is indisposed to anything that could improve our economic situation and which could, in this particular sense, ensure the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is a diversification of gas supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78591	Comrade Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78592	Dear Prime Minister, thank you, therefore, for teaching me all the generally known technical facts. So of course I know that the project has been going on, it has been going on for two years now, and I know your commitment in this and in all other issues but politics and statehood are not evaluated by goals and determinations, but by concrete effects. So my question was when are you going to go out with a concrete lex LNG in front of this Assembly as well as you know it if you don't do it soon, very soon the EU's grants will be at stake. So will you stall, try, as well as to satisfy everything that will not ultimately satisfy anyone, or within a month or two days before this Assembly will find this legislative proposal in this sense for documentary reasons so that I can hold you by your word and remind you of the spoken, please answer in writing but piety form.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78593	Let's go to question 34, Attorney Gordan Maras asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78594	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, the question goes to you, I have concluded from some of your answers that you are a miracle worker, in fact, here to commend you a little bit at the beginning. Unfortunately, you are a miracle worker only for yourself and for companies, so you explained just a little while ago that five members of the laundry family are significantly advocating in the public sector just when you became prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. And companies that made so much money up to a year and a half ago that they could pay 4,000 net wages like Texo Menagment, now earn $12 million a year, and these are companies that are also close to you and your Deputy Prime Minister Martini Dalic. So up until a year and a half ago almost nothing and after that came Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and Mrs. Martina Dalic, 12 million kunas a year. And you took those documents, contracts, examined them and verified them and said yes, it's right that Texo Menagment makes as much as 250 employees of merchants and merchants in Konzum. Every month. Two men just like 250 employees in the Consum. That's what you verified. What I'm interested in, Mr. Plenkovic, given that you've seen the contracts, how much will the Texo Menagment receive from the 60 million kuna restructuring awards or for signing a settlement in Agrokor? How much of it will be given to Texo Menagment, people close to you and Minister Dalic, and how much of it will the HDZ get from it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78595	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78596	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Tomorrow you will have an opportunity to elaborate this topic in detail, if I know you have this question and in writing has already been answered by both the Government and the Deputy Prime Minister. I see that you who were against law-making, against how to solve the biggest economic problem, and now that you finally see that the whole operation has worked out, try to find a problem in it and make a problem. It's your legitimate right of opposition, you do it spontaneously like some other sitting here and that's your right. As for the company's engagement, called Texo Management, you saw that when I became aware of the situation the way it was presented to me, that there was a resignation of the former Commissioner, that a new extraordinary administration was appointed, that the process of restructuring and reaching a settlement was continued and that it had become successful. That's what matters. As far as engagements between elected advisers are concerned, which are advisers called AlixPartners and their subcontractors, is not a question that is on the trail of government responsibility in any way, is not a question that I can influence as Prime Minister in any way or that I have in fact the ability to publicly give information about the contract between two private companies that are of a confidential character. Therefore, what was important to us from the government's point of view is that the process succeeds, that economic and financial disasters do not happen, that the settlement be reached, that the jobs remain there, that the state does not spend any lip on this whole operation and that we ensure the economic future of all Croatian companies that are connected to Agrokora. And that's what we did, Mr. Maras. Despite you, despite your party, despite your comments, despite all the efforts that went from this together with some others last year to protecting Mr. Todorovic until you started singing his song for months afterwards, so one 180 degree twist and we had one exclusive line of action all along, it was a general interest, jobs, the Croatian economy, that this situation would not happen and that the process of restructuring and reaching a settlement would be within the legal frameworks as planned. Your insinuation that the funds that people who do their job as advisors can have to do with me, with the vice president or with the HDZ are immeasurable, Agent Maras. I refuse them resolutely, I refuse any such insinuation, it has nothing to do with me or the HDZ. And I appeal to you to think for a second time when you're using such words because you can tell me whatever you want but you won't pin it on me, be 100% sure, 100% sure, I'm telling you because for many years we've known each other and I'm determined not to go in with you in comments and polemics that would be such a character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78597	An obvious colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78598	Unfortunately, Mr. Plenkovic, it's very staged, so we looked at those situations until 7, 8.9 years ago. In Croatia, the courts are still running, it is very ground floor, and that is why I am saying it. Unfortunately, you took those contracts, you studied them, you're not going to tell me how much Texo Management... 60 million kunas because now you're saying you can't give that information, but obviously you're still putting money in those companies' pockets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You yourself, you legitimately, have legitimized this entire procedure. If you could have changed and now you've also told Anta Ramljak from that place then you could have prevented such contracts from continuing. If you could put Peru as Commissioner he could influence consultants that the Texo Managment did not continue to earn as 250 sellers in Konzum, that out of the 60 million kunas that would receive prizes for what, for having been able to agree to sign the credentials? Is that worth 60 million kuna? How much company works better than she did a year ago. That's what the Texo Managment Award's gonna get for. So you've verified it and it's from your position approved. That's what I'm saying here and people need to know. On the other hand, it is not true that all suppliers are satisfied, the ones you brought to the press conference yesterday but many major Croatian companies are not satisfied with the settlement. It is not true that these Croatian taxpayers will cost nothing. What about the state's claims? What about the HBOR claims? What about claims, for example, from the city of Zagreb, where will your money end? That's over a billion kuna. How is that not gonna cost the taxpayers, your settlement procedure in Agrokor? And the third is that with 3,000 less employees than last year at this time in Agrokor? You didn't answer the three things I gave you and don't tell the truth, Mr. Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78599	Let's move on, 35 questions representative Darko Horvat sets up Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78600	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government with his associates, ministers. My question will be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Tolusic, and already asked questions and impatience today to meet the questions finally and welcome the answer. So, we in Međimurje, in Međimurje County in the past 2, 3 months, dear colleague Tolusic, we are somewhere on the verge of thinking to the dictionary fellow Maras that you were, to this extent, the last 7.4. What makes us think that's the case? So the mayors and mayors of the SDP, HSS, HNS, and my HDZ parties congratulate you on the well-designed measure, on the well-implemented validation process and on the fact that in the analysis of the application and distribution of grants and measures you have not managed exclusively party membership, you have already chosen those projects that are good projects, so that in Međimurje and Interimurje County of 10 projects will be made in the next year 8 children's kindergartens and two, respectively, one sports and one cultural content. So I cannot possibly understand the impatience of those who criticise the implementation of this measure but we are in Međimurje and I am confident in the space of the whole of Croatia by announcing whether this measure is going further, if not, whether you have any idea how to compensate this well-hited measure with someone else and what you are doing at this point in the rural development component, to make such measures from that joint budget of the European Commission’s resources any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78601	Mr Tomislav Tolusic's reply to the respected agriculture minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78602	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian, for asking the question, for answering you, but also for answering Mr. Welligaj, given that the subject is similar. For the past six months, the Ministry of Agriculture has made deals in our municipalities and cities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, regardless of the size of the municipality or city, around a billion and 440 million kunas. So for the roads of 662 million kuna, 300 million kuna for the water lines and now for the social infrastructure of 470 million kuna. If it's not this government's concern for rural areas, then I don't know what that's about. Lastly, i.e. 7.4.1. means the development of social infrastructure is approved by 102 projects, which I am extremely pleased is that 57 projects are just kindergartens in our country. Nearly 200 municipalities and towns in the Republic of Croatia have no kindergarten, those who have a good share of them have kindergartens that are in pretty bad conditions, someone has new but a good part is in bad shape. It is with this measure and somewhere with around 280 million kuna to this extent that we will help build 57 kindergartens, meaning in almost all counties in the Republic of Croatia. In Zagreb 90% of children go to kindergarten, in rural areas 40%. And if we're talking about demographics, demographic measures, for me personally and I believe for any parent or child who doesn't have kindergartens, building kindergartens or restoring existing ones, raising quality to one envious level is certainly a demographic measure that makes sense in the short and long term can bring positive effects. A new tender for construction primarily of kindergartens goes in May, 500 million kuna is secured for the construction of kindergartens. So another 100 kindergartens and this 57 would actually be close to what Croatia needs. So by the end of the year, about 150-160 settlements in the Republic of Croatia will have new or renewed kindergartens, we will be leading the quality levels of preschool and kindergarten, helping children and parents to stay in their areas, and that is something that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will certainly not start. When we talk about Krapina Zagorje County, and otherwise on this scale 7.4. I can also commend Međimurska, but also Bjelovarska bilogorska, Varazdinska, Karlovačka and other counties that have achieved a really large number of projects that have passed. When we talk about Krapina Zagorje County, over 100 million kuna came to Krapina Zagorska from these 3 competitions, 17 road projects, including the town of Pregrada. This is not mentioned by Mr. Vesligaj in his exhibition, 5 plumbing, and 6 projects in 7.4.1, of which 4 kindergartens. However, he did not mention Mr. Vesligaj, that he was at my place to lobby for his project, which is very correct, but that his project had not reached a sufficient number of points, so now he's a little angry. But good luck next time. Thank you again, and I hope I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78603	Thank you. Honorable representative Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78604	I think any comment on these words by Minister Tolusic is too high. Maybe it wouldn't be bad for all the parliamentary deputies, to share this information and put it on the table, so you can deny harassing by asking a guy like this on this because the numbers say everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78605	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Mladen Karlic, Minister of State Property, Dr Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78606	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister, Your Honor. Here, my question is to Mr. Goran Marić, I would like to point out, since Mr. Minister started his mandate and, in fact, the mandate of this government points out that the priority of the ministry's work is to activate all those inactive, abandoned assets, non-useable assets, and precisely in the function of developing local self-government units, i.e. to activate their projects for which they usually do not have space, land or facilities. And here we are, witnessing, that last week you donated to the town of Križevci, an old military, abandoned military for the purpose of building... Incubator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there have been recent weeks of some kind of media speculation, that some projects are either blocked or not being realized at that speed that everyone wants, in fact, every single unit of local self-government. So since I come from the city of Vinkovac, and we have several such projects and wishes, 4 years ago, the city of Vinkovci made a request, while it was the Office of Property Management, a request to be offered to us by an old building that citizens still during Maria Teresa, and it was called the Colloquial Hungarian school, where it was long ago Croatian railways, so they left it four years ago, and now stands abandoned and empty, and we need it in the city to realize some important projects, such as leaving it in the position of high-information school, music school, center for entrepreneurs. Well, I'd like to ask you, if you can tell me, at what stage is the realization, of this important project to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78607	Thank you. Answer, Minister Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78608	Thank you very much, Agent Karlic. So at the heart of the activities of the Ministry of State Property is certainly solving the subject of units of local self-government and assistance to units of local self-government is by developing them and developing the entire Croatia. We help in a number of ways and solve in a number of ways, the activation of properties that are abandoned, devastated, abandoned, property legal status very complicated, then encouraging projects in the field of local self-government units and realisation, by completing privatisation processes from the portfolio of companies, which are not on the list of strategic companies, which also enables investment in local self-government units. When it comes to concrete, the facility in Vinkovci, it is true that the city of Vinkovci submitted a request 4 years ago. Hungarian school. Unfortunately, the city of Vinkovci has not responded for several months to our correspondence that two documents from the city of Vinkovc are missing, a statement of denial of the claim and a statement that Vinkovci is not a tax debtor. As soon as we get it, the decision is ready, but we can't implement it without those two documents, the assessment is done, 14 million kuna is the value of real estate. So, I don't know why the city of Vinkovci hesitates, but I do know that ownership is a privilege, but property is also a commitment. Otherwise, there are similar cases. Recently, a colleague asked me to be in her town, a representative, an emergency case... to get rid of her city, after 5 calls and the agency turned out that the city didn't apply at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are cases like this, and there are some great ones, where they call from town every day, a couple of times until they get rid of it. The Ministry of State Property, all employees and employees are far more accessible to illustrate this. In one week, we solved more cases to local self-government units than in the previous four years. We now have a department for local self-government units, sometimes only one person did it for all local self-government units. As for these media inscriptions, so there was a stalemate number of Cups, a project of Cup, but for 2 years nothing was done, the Ministry of State Property is from an analysed contract, here, yesterday the government decided to give consent to an annex contract, which will boost the project. And what this project means for the municipality of Zupa Dubrovačka and the investment of 700-800 million kuna, you can imagine that. In the last 5 days we have realised 3 and signed contracts for the remaining 3 trading companies from the hotel sector, and only from these activities to the state budget is 430 million kuna and an insurance investment of billions and 300 million kuna. In 2 small towns and one municipality, billions and 300 million kuna are secured in the next 4 years. We can only imagine, it is as if the next 4 years 250 to 280 billion kuna were invested throughout Croatia. This is a new model and a new privatisation practice, if we remember numerous privatisation experiences with hotel societies such as Sunny Hvar, Haludovo, Primosten, etc. Liburnia, for example, then this is one example of a new privatisation positive experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78609	Thank you. Dear Representative Karlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78610	Thank you for this information, Mr. Secretary. There's progress in the work, there's a lot more work being done, a lot more realising. I contacted the city of Vinkovce about an hour ago, and they just two days ago, those two documents you said you sent, I didn't know exactly what it was about, but here they went, so I hope we can work this out together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78611	Thank you very much. The next 37th question will be asked by respected representative Sabina Glasovac, which is the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure to Mr Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Butkovic, your ministry, not for your term of office, but during the term of office of HDZ, it was known for the furniture of the road construction contests, we know how afraid the tunnels were, we know how the construction of Kalmetin, the bulobran affair, many of these affairs actually got their epilogue and in court proceedings. So my question to you, as the person who has somehow come into this resort after Calmeta, during Kalmeta, after Calmeta was known for that, is how you comment on this new trend in Croatia where, for example, furniture competitions for the head of an expert task force where a man with the best rating is not actually chosen, but the competition is being annulled and recycled, say political former Minister Fuks, and on the other hand, Zadar Port is given in a concession of a company that was founded several months ago, the only bidder, are extremely unfavourable conditions for the Republic, but this competition is not being annulled, but here he survives, and everything is likely to result in damage to Croatia. Here I am interested in your comment on these new trends in setting up ale HDZ competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78613	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78614	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. I thank you for your question. The first part of your question cannot be answered because it is Mrs. Divjak's portfolio and curricular reform does not belong to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure's portfolio, personally what I can say is that the selection procedure is legal and legitimate and more than I could say at this point. As for the competition for the selection of concessionaries at the port of Gazenica, he challenged and awakened some local spirits and the media public and held a committee, the Thematic Committee last week in the Croatian Assembly, which was attended by the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea and by the people who prepared the competition within the state port administration. What I can tell you at this point is that, you also know, the Croatian state has been building port infrastructures and superstructures in state port administrations, loans, large loans for the purpose of building on these newly built terminals, either by passenger or by freight, the event of numbers that will allow these loans to return and the activities in those ports to wake up. Whether we did it or not, I think we did it, that was a good move, but we didn't. Your government is in which you too, the government of the SDP, when it comes to this particular project, went into rationalization of this project. Loans continued and the project was financed from the loan and then the contracts envisaged that concessions would be granted, not at the port of Gazenica, not on the entire infrastructure, as it is not the case here, but that the right to carry out economic activities in one part of the infrastructure or other infrastructures, particularly here at the port of Zadar, at the port of Gazenica. You know that down and you live that the ships aren't enough, you know that and you need to do something to make the number of passengers, so that the economic activity and the whole, everyone who's attached to that process more positive and better. And in this sense, in continuity from the beginning, not now but from the beginning, it was the decision of all Croatian governments to go to the concession of this work. The competition that was published by Zadar Airport, i.e. I apologize to the Zadar Port Administration, the state, was published for 3 months, was published on an electronic public procurement advert, on the website of the port administration, but was published in 2 powerful world publications, in two world publications in that section, it was Met cruise and cruise and fairy, 3 months and could everyone report to that competition. He was transparent, I stand behind it, and all that would imply a possible guessing, etc. I can't get into it because we at the ministry are looking at this whole paperwork right now, and what we've seen so far, it can't be made clear anywhere, and it's under the setup of the competition, I don't think it's correct. Here, that's what I have to tell you. Here, I say, that's what I know at this point. The decision is, since the representatives of the Ministry of the Sea are a man from the Ministry of State Department who is a prominent lawyer, I have spoken with him, and there is really no word about any convenience. and any irregularities. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78615	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78616	You've finally made your point and said something after months of silence about the Landlady. Look, the Zadar boys have been known to you for this, especially lately, to give concessions not only to these port administrations, but also to urban televisions and monuments to the sun and some other objects. Look at the wonders, the same companies that were founded a few months ago, whose business we don't know, the way they operate, the ownership structures, etc., etc. Two and a half billion kuna have so far been invested in the port of Gazenica along with access roads. It's neither our money nor yours. No HDZ, no SDPs, that's Croatian taxpayers' money. And if you sign a contract in which you won't, give it to someone in a concession, who's going to make billions of euros, and you're going to collect crumbs, you can barely keep that project, and you won't get anything out of it, you won't get your money back, then I wonder who's crazy? What kind of business is that? Would you give your real estate to someone like that? What kind of family silver did you build with your savings to keep it that way? You wouldn't. That's why I'm asking. On the other hand, they promised a thousand jobs at the port of Gazenica. You know how many concessionaires guarantee now? 28. It is a port that was put into the investment plan in its own time, which is of the crucial interest of the Republic of Croatia, of strategic interest. You kicked her out of that strategic development plan last year. I'm sorry that this is so, that Zadar is marginalized, and for this second part of the question, about, I'm glad that you don't interfere in an area that isn't yours, when I asked you for a staged competition for the head of an expert task force, where I'm lucky that some politically relevant and church-specific relevant factors don't mix the same place where they don't belong, like women's uteruss, the question of having a woman's body, etc. So here you are, a bright example of not getting involved where you don't belong. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78617	The next question is the respected representative of Stjepan Kovaca, aimed at the health minister, Dr Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78618	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. Here, for two years, it takes a battle of diabetics to put continuous diabetes meters, known as the libra sensor, on the list of orthopaedic aids. Yesterday, there it was, finally the General Medical Technical Assistance Committee put meters on the list and they finally came to the Croatian market. It has been announced that at the end of April a decision should be taken on the HZZO Governance Council on which of the patients would be entitled to receive these sensors from HZZO. At the same time, while HZZO boasts that he wants to include patient representatives in deciding on such important decisions, he hastily and untransparently kicked out one patient representative from the HZZO's Help Committee. It is about a prominent and independent representative with diabetes, who knows from his own experience what it means to deal with this kind of disease. I would like to know why he was expelled at the very end of the decision-making process, what you are planning to do and when this injustice is corrected, that the patient's representative is returned to this and other HZZO committees, and whether patients with one of the most severe diagnosiss in the Republic of Croatia will finally get help that greatly facilitate their daily control of their disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78619	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister Dr. Kujudzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78620	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Kovac. Diabetes is a disease that has a high incidence in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in other countries. By the quality of treatment, by implementing forms of treatment, I am now talking about insulin forms, not to bother the representatives and the public now with details of endocrinological, Croatia has preceded in this regard and indeed about the quality of treatment for diabetes by the model of availability we are not behind in the Republic of Croatia for much, much richer countries in the world. In that sense, sensors will also be registered in the Republic of Croatia. I cannot prejudge what will be decided by the Committee, or what will be decided by the profession, which group of patients should receive it. So, let's wait for the commission's decision so I don't have to reconsider. And as for the board member, I'm really not familiar. I'm gonna check that out and see what's going on and why what you're saying happened. So I really can't comment on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78621	Thank you. Dear Representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78622	Thank you. Here, I'm not very happy with the answer. You know probably, like everyone in the Republic of Croatia, there are over 300 thousand people with one type of diabetes. Of these, 30,000 people have type I diabetes. So they have to control sugar multiple times a day. Of which, 1,000 of them are children. So, 1,000 children each day have to pee up to four times, and when they go to school, they have to measure their sugar, control their illness. The cost of such treatment costs you 120 euros a month. So that's 1200 euros a month for those 1,000 children or a million 440 thousand euros a year, which is about 10 million kuna. If this government has 3 billion kuna to buy old planes, then I think it's definitely a priority for all of us here in the Youth's Assembly to take care of these youngsters to ensure that their parents don't spend their own resources on this treatment because it's not cheap treatment and why all these patients with diabetes, who are type 1 diabetes, are not approved for free use. They mean 30,000. I think the state could find funds for them to be approved. It is important to know that this is not about any experimental drug, but about a proven and successful method of blood sugar control and what is even more important, the prime minister encouraged me when we're leaving the payment of the aircraft of future old planes to future generations, as the prime minister said before, then I think it would be fair to at least make it easier for them to treat these future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78623	And the last question of a respected representative, Stipe Sapina, directed towards the Minister of the Sea, Transport, the infrastructure of Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78624	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister. My question goes towards the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Mr. Minister, in late March, you said the debt in the road sector would be paid by 2033, and that road companies would be able to finance themselves and repay the remaining loans and debts. Mr. Minister, please explain if you really believe these companies will be able to carry out this process until the end?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78625	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78626	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, thank you for asking. The answer to your question, yes, I do. Because I don't believe in this perhaps the most important reform of this government behind the tax reform that has been made in most parts. Of course, now this business restructuring is on us, and I wouldn't propose it, and I wouldn't be working this year and a half to prepare this big restructuring process. I will just remind myself that the total debt of the entire cesspool sector is just over 5 billion euros, which accounts for about 13% of the total public debt of the Republic of Croatia. Last year, the government set out by a letter of sector policy to go into business and financial restructuring of the entire road sector, but let's not forget that some of the previous governments were aiming to monetize or sell highways. We said it wasn't good, that's what the Croatian citizens said at the referendum and we said let's go save the highways and we did it. We are also thanks to Minister Maric, whom I must also point out here because the Ministry of Finance has given strong support in this financial section by issuing the euro bond at the end of last year and this last arrangement with domestic banks is only worth about 50 million euros. It's a great success, we have to admit and, of course, I repeat now it's up to us to take all those measures within the companies themselves to make them sustainable and to make them stable and to be able to repay their debts finally as you said in your question by 2033. In 2017, some of these reforms have already been made within the companies themselves, companies have been merged, there have been some unpopular measures, and this has been to raise the toll, and what is most important and what follows that in this year we will have an answer to the question which is the future toll model for Croatian highways so that they can also provide stable revenues and, of course, implement all that within the companies themselves and this is a cost reduction. We connected companies already in 2017. A few people left the system voluntarily, about 210 people. This will continue in 2018. So I'm happy with what's been done, and I believe that we're going to be able to draw all these debts back successfully by 2033.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78627	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative of the Sapin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78628	Thank you for your response. I am pleased with the answer, and I am using the opportunity to thank you and the Prime Minister for putting forth effort and effort, as well as to help the County Road Administrations and find opportunities and resources to improve the situation in the County Road Administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78629	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs are hereby completed in the morning. I thank the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and members of the Government. As announced before we move to a club position that will request this in accordance with Article 249(3). The Rules of Procedure would now be discussed at the request of the MOST Club and if we have a quorum, I hope and vote on the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Miroslav Simic's term of office and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative Sonja Cikotic. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78631	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 37th session held on 11 April 2018 the written request of Representative Miroslav Simic of 22 March 2018 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that I should base Article 14(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts its parliamentary mandate to rest on 31 March 2018. Most Independent Lists Most, pursuant to Article 42(2). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Sonja Cikotic as deputy representative of Miroslav Simic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Miroslav Simic as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Sonja Cikotic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the representative's office and the start of acting as deputy deputy MP. On 31 March 2018, the stay of MP Miroslav Simic's term of office begins. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative Sonja Cikotic on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78632	I thank my colleague, Tušek. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Now I'd like to pray that, I'm not sure he has us, let's check the quorum to see what it is. Did you all get involved? There's not enough of us, so I'd like to appeal if there's more, can you join us? If there's anyone else, I mean for college reasons, a colleague is here, she should swear, but we can't do that. Let's wait a little longer, I beg you. 63, 13 more missing. Then I ask you to be all here at 3:00, hopefully there'll be more MPs, and then we'll try, I'm sorry, but here, I can't help it. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] First of all, we will welcome students and high school students from Varazdin. Welcome. Give it up! We will now check the quorum so that we can confirm our new colleague Sonja Cikotic's mandate. Please sign in, let's see if we have a quorum. I find that we have a sufficient number of MPs, 80, so we can vote, so I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 87 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we're going to take the oath. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Seven. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he The appointed representative rises and utters his word, I swear. I'll read the text of the oath now. I swear by my honor that I will exercise my responsibility as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly, that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Here are representatives of Sonja Čikotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78634	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78635	I thank and congratulate the MPs and wish her success in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty. Give it up! [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.25 HOURS]] Now I'd like to ask my esteemed colleague, Tušek, president of the Immunity Commission to give us a report from the session they had.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78637	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 38th session held on 25 May 2018, the Croatian Parliament's executive immunity commission discussed the written notice of Representative Darko Horvat of 25 May 2018 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had put his representative's mandate on hold because he was elected to the office of Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft, which is incompatible with the representative's duties. Darko Horvat was elected representative of the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in the third constituency and HDZ according to the article... paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Mrs Suncana Glavak as deputy representative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, for the start of the stay of Dark Horvat's representative mandate, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Ms. Suncana Glavak. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Articles 9(2) and 116 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to make a decision on the stay of the representative's mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy MP. On 25 May 2018, the rest of Representative Darko Horvat's term of office shall begin in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall begin to act as deputy representative of Mrs Sunčana Glavak on the day when the Assembly shall establish legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78638	I thank my colleague, Tušek. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. So now we're going to vote. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to open the term of office of representative Darko Horvat and the start of acting as deputy representative for the Suncana Glavak. Please, let's vote. There he is. He won't? Let's turn it off and we'll do it again. Let's try it one more time. I would ask my colleague Maric to take his high position. Here it is, we can vote. Don't work, then we'll do it with our hand. Just a second for my colleague Maric to come. I'm confirming that we have a quorum, 87 is a representative, so please, here I repeat again. [[Applause.]] I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to open the term of office of representative Darko Horvat and the start of acting as deputy representative of Suncana Glavak. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. Then I find that we have unanimously decided, and now I'm going to say a number with 87 votes we've made a decision as suggested by the mandated immunity commission. . After making this decision, we now move on to making an oath in Article 7. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President read the text of the oath, after which he named the MPs, the appointed representative, i.e. the representative stands up and pronounces the word I swear. [[Applause.]] I will read the text of the oath: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. She's a colleague of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78639	Mr. President, I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78640	Thank you. Congratulations on the oath and I want a lot of success in the work in the Croatian Parliament. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78641	We move to the next item of the agenda - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Mr. Žarko Tušek to submit the Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 39th session held on 5 July 2018 the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor Osatina group d.o.o. from Semeljac, addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Damir Tomic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the offense referred to in Article 147(1) and (2) and the defamation offence referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Damir Tomić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Without discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament – during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against MP Damir Tomic, at the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Osatina Group d.o.o. from Semeljacs on the action brought on 29 June 2018 to the Municipal Court in Osijek for the offence of an insult referred to in Articles 147(1) and (2) and the defamation offence referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. The argument is in extreme terms the same as always since it is a private lawsuit in that case the Commission is holding its position not to remove immunity from MPs. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 39th session held on 5 July 2018 the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor Osatina group d.o.o. from Semeljac, addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Domagoj Hajdukovic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the offense referred to in Article 147(1) and (2). Article 149(1) and (2) of the Penal Code and the Defamation of Defamation Penalty law. Domagoj Hajduković is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be possible without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against, nor shall the criminal proceedings be conducted. Without debate, too, with 6 votes for the basis of Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee shall propose that, during the term of its term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, at the request of the attorney-in-law of the Osatin Group d.o.o. from Semeljac, on the appeal brought on 29 June 2018, to the Municipal Court of Osijek for the offence referred to in Article 147(1) and (2) and the defamation of the offence referred to in Article 149(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law. The explanation in the case of counterpart Hajdukovic is the same as in the case of counterpart Tomic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78643	I thank the esteemed President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zark Tušek. I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Now I'm setting a break until 19.10 minutes when we're back on track. It's 7:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78644	The report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Domagoj Hajdukovic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, concluded the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: During the term of the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Domagoj Hajdukovic is denied, at the request of the attorney of the private prosecutor Osatine Grupa d.o.o. from Semeljacs, following an action brought on 24 June 2018 to the Municipal Court in Osijek for the offence of an insult referred to in Articles 147(1) and (2) and the defamation offence referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penal Code, please vote. I find it unanimous with 100 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And the final item for the vote today's Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Damir Tomic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament, the debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: During the term of the term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Damir Tomic, at the request of the attorney-in-chief of the private prosecutor Osatine Grupa d.o.o. from Semeljacs, following an action brought on 29 June 2018 to the Municipal Court of Osijek for the offence of an insult referred to in Articles 147(1) and (2) and the defamation offence referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penal Code, please vote. I find it unanimous, 98 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now we're done voting, here's just a few information. So we'll continue work on Tuesday, 9:30, and we'll be working until Friday 13.7 if we vote. We continue after you leave those who want a assembly, with a free speech, and then we go from those three points of the agenda as planned according to the plan for work. Thank you. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78645	Good afternoon to all of you who are here and good afternoon to those who will come. Yesterday, an assistant secretary tells me that we have agreed to begin with: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission; Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Mr. Žarko Tušek to submit the report. Here you go. ... Mr. Schooker gave a breach to the Rules of Procedure. Here's an article. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78646	I think on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, we were supposed to begin our session today with congratulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78647	Well, I'm the first among the equals, and I'm glad you're the same among the equals. And not only do I congratulate the Croatian team on its huge success but I ask you to take them as a role model. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 40th session held on 11 July 2018, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Željko Matijević, from Karlovec, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for approval for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Zeljko Lacković, representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Article 291(1) and (2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Željko Lacković is the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and is based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity until the end of the parliamentary term and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated or prosecuted by the Commission has established that the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime and the resolution of 15 June 2018 rejected the criminal application by Željko Matijević against Zeljko Lacković. And after the debate, the commission is based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, by a majority of votes of 6 votes in favour of and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament, propose that the following decision be denied, during the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against MP Zeljko Lacković, at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Željko Matijević of Karlovac for the offence of abuse of the position and authority referred to in Article 291(1) and (2) of the criminal law and the criminal offence of trade in influence referred to in Article 295(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penal Code means Explanation in short. We treat a subsidiary prosecutor as a private prosecutor, and in that case, we stick to the practice of not removing immunity. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 40th session held on 11 July 2018 the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Željko Matijević from Karlovec sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for approval of the launch of criminal proceedings against the master of science, Orsat Milenić, representative in the Croatian Parliament for the criminal offence of abuse of position and authority in the article... Article 1(1) and (2) Criminal law and criminal offence of trade with the effect of the article... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Penalty law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Orsat Miljenić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The commission found that the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime by a solution of 15 June 2018 rejected Zeljko Matijević's criminal application against Orsat Milenic. The Commission shall, after the hearing has been carried out, take the view of Article 116 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 6 votes to, 1 vote against, proposed the Croatian Parliament to take the following decision: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term, the approval for the launch of the criminal proceedings against Representative Orsat Milenić, at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Željko Matijević, from Karlovec, is denied due to the criminal offence of abuse of position and authority in the article... Article 1(1) and (2) Criminal law and criminal offence of trade with the effect of the article... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Penalty law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The explanation is the same as in the case of counterpart Lackovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78649	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow, right? [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78650	We are now going to report to the Executive Immunity Commission, on the request for approval, for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Orsat Milenić, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The debate has been concluded, I am voting on the motion for a decision, which, during the term of the parliamentary term, is being denied the authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings, against representative Orsat Milenic, at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Zeljko Martijević of Karlovac, because of the criminal part of the abuse, the position and the authority of the Member. Paragraphs 91 and 2 of the Criminal Code and the criminal part of the trade in influence referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of the Criminal Code. 295th paragraph 1 of the Penal Code. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 76 for and 2 abstentions, have been decided as proposed by the Mandate Immunity Commission. Another report by the Executive Immunity Commission, on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, against Zeljko Lackovic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The debate was concluded, I am voting on a motion for a decision, which, during the term of the parliamentary term, is being denied the authorisation to move the criminal proceedings against MP Zeljko Lackovic, at the request of the subsidiary prosecutor Zeljko Martijević of Karlovac, because of the criminal part of the abuse of office and the powers of the article. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Penal Code and the criminal part of the trade in influence referred to in Article 1(1) 295th paragraph 1 of the Penal Code. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour of the decision made as proposed by the Mandate Immunity Commission. Now comes the announcement of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, he called the 29th session at the Ivan Mažuranić Hall right after the vote. Before we go to a club-free debate, I would like to congratulate our football team on behalf of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of all MPs and representatives, once again on what they have done. We're all proud, we're all with them. We want them to brilliant again, we want them to win the world champion's title, and we all look forward to it together. Fire luck, we're all with you! ... Now, I ask you that those of you who want to leave the assembly and we're still here, we have a few applications for a free debate. [[Applause.]] Now we're starting with the first item of the agenda. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78652	Mr President, I suggest you put the bill in the same title and similar content of the SDP Representatives' Club, which was addressed in March last year and for which the Parliament adopted the emergency procedure, if they would accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78653	There was a possibility that you might request such a request in writing. Since you haven't, I'm not able to fulfill your noble desire. Well, then let's move on. So, the item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 318 The proposal for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 318. 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure, the laws which are approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are laid down as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation. We have Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic with us. If I understand correctly, you will share the debate with the Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Nada Murganic. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78654	Good day to once again respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all and I have an opportunity on behalf of the Government, together with Minister Murganic to present the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. In the last 5 years, 195 people were killed in the Republic of Croatia by 2013 until 2017. Of those 195 murders, 91 women were killed. In 70% of the cases, the perpetrators of the murders are close to women, and in 54% of the cases, they are their intimate partners. Last year alone, 12,000 violations involving domestic violence involving 8,000 women were victimized, or one woman was abused every hour. In addition, 552 crimes of domestic violence as serious forms of violence were registered, in which 84% of the victims were beaten by women. And that black statistic is unfortunately on the rise. And that is why today is before you in the Croatian Parliament the Law on the Confirmation of this Convention. The Convention deals with this worrying social phenomenon and offers concrete measures to prevent violence, protect victims and prosecute perpetrators. For the first time at international level, it provides for the introduction of safeguards, risk assessments, centres for supporting and consulting victims of violence, 24-hour telephone lines, better medical teams, more safe houses, and greater police powers in treating the perpetrator and stricter measures to prosecute the perpetrators. The convention will strengthen our national mechanisms to combat violence against women and domestic violence. In the public debate that we are following, which through consultation, which this media one is questioning the government's orientation and its policy and its programme regarding this Convention. I would like to say here that during the time of the convention, Croatian experts, more specifically Croatian experts, experts, family experts, which criminal rights went not in private capacity, but as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and contributed to the development of this Convention. As we know, the Convention came into force after 10 necessary ratifications were carried out at national level and that was on 1 August 2014 since it binding all those countries which ratified it. Croatia signed the convention on 22 January 2013 during the SDP government. So if a good memory serves me, for 3 years the SDP government, or led by the SDP, has had time to propose by the end of your government's term of office for ratification in the Croatian Parliament, means from January 2013 to January 2016, it is a long time, and it is also surprising that the government's impelation initiative on this subject. Three years is enough, three years isn't three months. Also, what is constantly heard in public space is that putting this convention on the agenda is a fruit of someone's pressure, of someone's dictatorship, of someone's sense of sovereignty in a weak way, even I heard it today. That's all, dear colleagues and colleagues are not true. Putting this convention on the agenda is a fruit of the HDZ government's political will programme in cooperation with partners, but not on their pressure, not on the pressure of the opposition, not on the pressure of the NGO, not on any international institution. This is very important for the Croatian public to know and be aware because there is an anti-European sentiment and reflex that I have to admit that I had no idea it would happen in Croatia in 2018, not just on this subject, on many topics. And that's why it's important for the Croatian public to know. No pressure, no dictatorship, no power plant, to be exact. The reference of this law to the procedure is part of the legislative action plan and the work of an inter-resor working group co-ordinated by the minister and her ministry because we believe that by confirming it, we will strengthen both the legal and institutional and financial framework to combat humanely unacceptable and socially punishable violence against women and domestic violence. This convention has already been ratified by 29 countries. I will list only some of us closer, for example: Albania, Austria, BiH, Montenegro, Italy, Macedonia, Slovenia, Serbia. It has been ratified by other countries of different traditions such as Belgium, Denmark, Cyprus, France, Malta, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Switzerland or a number of others. Despite their social differences, all these countries are faced with the same problem and have realised that this convention is a quality mechanism that can help solve this problem. There was information in the public on the cost of implementing this Convention. You could read that the cost of implementing this convention is billions of kuna. It's just not true. I don't know where it came from or how it was found, but it's incorrect, it's a hoax. Croatia, as you know, has its national strategy to combat violence against women for the period '17. '22. And for its implementation in the budget this year, we're spending about 70 million kuna. Additional costs will possibly be added to several million kunas in the context of the implementation of this Convention. Therefore, all these topics that are on the air about some billions of people are a lie and the public needs to know. What's wrong? GREVIO became a bauk, Arsene it has nothing to do with you, became a bauk as well as a number of other bodies that exist in the similar context of other Council of Europe conventions, there may be some bauk called GRECO, for example in the fight for corruption, the same Council of Europe convention or GRETA in the Convention to prevent human trafficking. Now, this GREVIO is no bogeyman, it's a group of experts dealing with this topic of combating violence against women, it's a common supervisory mechanism, no body that kidnaps Croatian sovereignty, we are, I remind ourselves, a member of the Council of Europe, we are a voluntary member of the EU, we are a member of the North Atlantic Union and the UN ourselves. In all these international organisations, whether they are intergovernmental or supranational, we cooperate or even share sovereignty and share competences as states, by our own will, not by force, very important to remind. Croatia, however, can also run for its experts who can be members of this group and thus contribute to its work. Supervisory mechanisms under this Convention also play an important role in the Committee of the States of the Parties. That's how the recommendations you'd give GREVIO go... The body, and the national parliaments, the Croatian Parliament, also play an important role. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Parliament plays an important role in the implementation of this Convention. So the reports would occasionally, periodically, come here, on the agenda and here would be discussed and the Croatian Parliament would participate in formulating the position. What is crucial, for all those who have expressed fear of the introduction of so-called Or not, I can see that you suggested something like that today, that's what the press told me, birth ideologies in our legal order and our legal system. The answer is very clear, decided, based on our analysis, based on an analysis of Croatian legal experts, based on consultations with legal professionals, the legal service of the Council of Europe, people who every day earn their bread by carrying out such international multilateral contracts and their very clear position that Croatia in no way ratifying this document in its legal order does not have any obligation to introduce gender ideology, in its legal education system or possible obligation to change the definition of marriage, as provided for by the Croatian Constitution. There were a lot of words about the value of the interpretation statement as an instrument, many have easily said so here and here, colleagues from the SDP that the interpretative statement is a worthless document. So I appeal to those who have not studied law, and are scattered with such words, to read the Law on the conclusion and execution of an international contract, its Article. 2. paragraph 15. so they will find the definition of interpretative statements there, they will know why countries as parties to multilateral agreements in situations where there are no reserves, in situations where it is not a bilateral contract, to stand behind each point, but to be part of a wider process of making an international document, thus saying your interpretation, how you read certain parts, how you understand the Convention, how you intend to apply it. And that's part of the art. In 47th of this law on certification is not a worthless document, but it is just clear that the Croatian Government is, and I am convinced, and the Croatian Parliament is reading this convention and how it intends to apply it. That is why it is written or engaged carefully, precisely, in a way, to be accepted and to avoid the fears of those who are justified, which I am looking at. People have certain fears, fears, not all of us see the same, and it is precisely there to facilitate the situation of those who feel that reading this convention or a memorandum that explains seeing a particular problem or conflicting with their worldly, ethical or other views, on this document. That's why she's here. It's a sort of pillow or a pad, however anyone wants to read it and can rely on it. And thus, in essence, show one trust also according to the key legislative body, which is the Croatian Parliament that will adopt the proposed Government, including the Croatian institutions and bodies that the Convention should implement. As far as further precision is concerned, we have long consulted with the legal service of the Council of Europe, in the process of co-operation of agreements, talks, dialogue, consultation, verification, quietly, even, we have hired the otherwise classified legal service of the Council of Europe to publish. It has nothing to do with the EU in... for those who interfere with these two organizations, because there's that on the air. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they published it. And this document says very clearly, not only to us, but to other countries, where there is a similar public campaign on this subject. There is no legal obligation to recognise a third sex. There's no legal obligation to redefine marriage. There is no legal obligation to introduce into the curriculum content that I share, that there is no such obligation, that there is no content. And that's what I want to say clearly, and it's important that as representatives, as a public, you know that and be aware of that. On the other hand, I have to remind you, and it's pretty much going under the radar, uh, the High House has adopted some other laws so far, and some other documents. For example, in art. 14. The Law on Gender Equality of 2013 (Pardon 2003) mentions gender inequality, gender stereotypes, gender aspects in educational teaching areas, these are laws that are in force. 2007 Voluntary Law. 9. It even goes so far, and I see that this subject of reading the convention, which says the organizer of volunteering, is obliged to act, according to the principle of equal opportunities, for all persons regardless of age, race, color of the skin, language, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender and gender expression, in force, law, 2007 Article 9. The 2008 Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences, the Criminal Law, the National Strategy of 2011, protection against domestic violence, the Law on Criminal Procedure, all this is already in the Croatian legal system. Our aki, if you will. However, it is all part of the public debate, part of the topics which generated a great, great public interest, expression of views, taking up positions, and me as Prime Minister, however, is the most troubled that in 2016 and 2017, the largest number of women killings has been recorded in the last 7 years. In two years 38, of which 33 of the people close. That's 50% of all women killed in close relationships in the last five years. So we've got a trend in homicides, an increase in violence. This statistics and the one from the beginning of my speech are devastating and it tells us that we are not doing enough, that the legislative framework that we have is not enough or is not being implemented to the extent and in the way that we should. And it is precisely the adoption of this convention of opportunity to move from one declarative level of condemnation of violence to an even stronger manifestation of our will, intention and action to change that. In addition, by ratifying this Convention, we send a message to all abused women that violence is not only their problem, that it is not reserved within four walls, but it is the problem of the whole society and all of us together. And that is why we call on them to turn to institutions, report violence and by ratifying this document we seek to improve the work of these very institutions, make it more effective and increase the confidence of victims in the system. And so we appeal to all those who testify to violence to be socially responsible, not to be silent and to report it. And so I urge all of us to consider how much courage it takes for a woman who has been suffering violence for years, often economically dependent on a abuser, traumatized and not rarely in fear of secondary victimization to make a decision to report this violence, so that's the beginning of the moment. Because it's usually followed by leaving your own home, existential uncertainty, misdemeanor or criminal proceedings, the struggle for custody of children, the struggle with prejudice, the struggle with certain stereotypes. And that's courage, and it takes strength, and it's those situations that are difficult, complex, that one that can't understand them enough, understand or understand them. And therefore, respected MPs and advocates, I believe that out of responsibility for the victims, out of responsibility for us who have been chosen by the Croatian people to act high duties, we must strengthen mechanisms that will prevent violence against women, violence against children and domestic violence. And that's why with full responsibility both as a politician and as a lawyer and as a man I stand behind this convention, I stand behind the ratification process because I am convinced that it will contribute to solving a problem that we have no right to close our eyes to. And for all those who see something else in this convention, I tell them as a lawyer, as a colleague, as a friend you have an interpretative statement, she is there, she is worth, she will stay and she gives you a guarantee of confidence in herself and in our interest to solve this problem. These other countries have not ratified this Convention so that their culture, their values and their legal system have changed. They ratified it, each in their own context in a way that helps solve the problem that exists and there. And that's why this Convention has a concrete effect on me, it can have its own world-wide ideological dimension, but back to being, the essence that it is in accordance with the Constitution, is that it explains what it does not bring and the essence of why it is adopted and that is preventing violence against women and domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78655	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now I'd like to ask Minister Murganic the same word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78656	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs, prime minister, vice president and respected. In this time that I have left, I may point out, and I may repeat some that seem important to me, but it won't be for the worse because anyway, in this debate that is scheduled, there will be repetitions that aim to garner some thesis or for or against. I would like to point out, however, that when the Republic of Croatia signed the 2013 Convention, it expressed its intention to join those civilized countries that wanted to respect and achieve a higher level of human rights. The Republic of Croatia also has legislation in which we can say that we have recognized this problem, but as long as we have such statistics and the prime minister has said something about it in his opening statement, we cannot be satisfied. That is why, on 22.9.2017, the Government adopted a National Strategy to fight domestic violence and was fully based on the provisions of the Istanbul Convention. The aim of the Convention is to constantly highlight the protection of women from all forms of violence, immediately prevent, prosecute and eliminate violence against women but also in families. What I want to express is that this Convention has given a very significant definition of domestic violence that somehow goes under the radar when it comes to other definitions of this Convention. And it clearly states that this, domestic violence marks all acts of physical, sexual, mental, or economic violence that occur in the family or household or between former or current spouses regardless of whether they share the perpetrator or share the same residence with the victim. Why am I stressing the definition? Because it's very well known in our public that the worst forms of violence against women, murder happened between ex-partners, between ex-partners let's go tell the boys or girls and then it wasn't treated like domestic violence and now it's got one significant weight in protecting women. This Convention is also important by its stronger emphasis on prevention. Certainly education, awareness of the nation, awareness of youth that violence is unacceptable through both education and through social networks, through information channels, through the media, to spread awareness against discrimination for equality, to peacefully resolve any conflict, to accept rejection, to accept "no", to accept different attitudes and opinions. We also care about the education of experts in this regard, and it is considered the same as the form of a single education. The Convention gives an emphasis on the protection of the victim, the victim should be put away, the victim should be protected, the victim should later be given the opportunity to be economically independent through housing, through employment, the victim should be compensated for damages if it is not possible to charge from the perpetrator and what is also important, this Convention emphasizes who is related to this Convention, the victim. They are women, and they are children, regardless of gender, they are children because they are the most victims in the case of domestic violence, women, and therefore this convention also has that continuation of violence against women and domestic violence. Programmes and support services are important, legal assistance is important, it is important to protect the child when they are in the proceedings, when they are meeting with the bully, and how to keep in touch with family members without being exposed to the bully. What we have to say and I point out, we have autonomous houses, we have shelters, but we don't have enough of them, they're not regionally evenly deployed, and they're all equally available, and these are the values in which this Convention guides us. And thirdly, what is equally important, the Convention in some way directs us to stronger and clearer punishment of the perpetrators, to fairer penalties and also to rehabilitation, to resociation of the perpetrators in terms of the work of protective measures, in terms of psychological treatments to prevent further violence to prevent relapses and to prevent that person rehabilitated from being involved equally in everyday life. What I would like to point out, however, is that we are also through discussions, especially through a committee that was on the family, yesterday, with some possible findings that would want to say immediately that this convention is discriminatory because it protects women and as violent women in relation to men, this convention does not exclude them, this convention is aimed at protecting women from violence but also at boys and girls as children in the family and it speaks in the title of whom it is directed, but because it is also right that the highest victims of women are disproportionate to our representation in the overall population, it was necessary to adopt this convention, it is an phenomenon that occurs only in our country but in general in other countries and therefore this is the Council of Europe Convention. There's something else you'd like to say, if there's a possibility that we could have solved it through national legislation, we didn't. Legislatives should be perfected, directed, harmonised, harmonised, better coordinated and resolute bodies, and we will achieve and perfect this through monitoring. And what's not good, it appears when it comes to the convention, it doesn't matter if it isn't adopted or adopted, it's not going to improve anything compared to the protection of women and the prevention of violence, it's something that we can never go public with again. I would say, however, although there is a sign there that significant money will be made, and the money was mentioned by the prime minister, so about 70 or 72 million kuna, I say, will be directed at the annual level to NGOs. Yes, and so far they have cared about the protection of women, associations, different civil society organisations along with state bodies, left or right spectrum, Church, Caritas, and I think we should all be grateful for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78657	And I thank the minister. We have 12 replicas, all directed to the Prime Minister. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Goran Aleksic, I remind you, the duration of the replica is 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78658	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, I congratulate you on allowing the Republic of Croatia to keep its promise because it signed the convention, so it is necessary to ratify it. Congratulations on having fulfilled your pre-election promise as HDZ or you'll keep it, we'll see, congratulations on making some promises come true. I, as head of the SNAGA Party, will support the Convention, but I must remind you that in July 2017 your party promised to prescribe a methodology for determining fixed interest margins, that is another promise that you have not carried out and you answered my parliamentary question that this year will not be resolved. So be credible and keep all the promises you made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78659	Second replica of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78660	The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Since you're often at church rituals and... I suppose you consider yourself a member of the Catholic Church, so I ask you a question about what you think about the latest sixth explicit statement of the Croatian bishops who support all priests and all the Claires, and I will dare say the majority and believers to the layman who says: we are obliged to directly mention to all members of the Catholic Church, regardless of which political party or option they belong, who should give their vote for or against the ratification of the Convention that there are ideological elements consistent with birth ideology, maintaining birth ideology on the basis of which they are building so-called so-called. Gender culture, foreign to Christian and general human values, and against the science of the church. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To give your vote for ratification of the Convention would mean, among other things, to open the door to something that is contrary to human creation. Therefore, we call on the MPs in the Croatian Parliament to be declared against ratification of the Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78661	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78662	Thank you very much, Reverend Zekanovic. I reflect the position of the Croatian Bishop's Conference, I reflect the fear of a certain piece of Croatian voters, it is no wonder in such a campaign that many people have fears, fears and are exposed to so many misinformation that this is even as few people are scared. I'm not. I am not because as a government, as a competent ministry, as an expert, we have studied this text well, we have consulted everyone we need to consult with, we have examined the smallest detail of whether there are any legal consequences to the ratification of this convention that would give for the right of this interpretation that you have now stated. And that's why we included this interpretative statement. It's a signal and a message to reflect the attitude and put the fuses in the ratification process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78663	Next up, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78664	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister. I would only give a few insights that are complementary, which is when you talk about violence against women, it should be pointed out that it is historically conditioned violence, that women are victims of violence and that we have a historical obligation to end this violence. Let's keep in mind it's '45. the years in these rooms that women got the right to vote, that it was '71. The year was done and done in Switzerland and the only anthropology that is now being introduced into Croatia, I hope, is the anthropology of non-violence. Let us bear in mind that violent people are not human, they are places where man and mankind are yet to be played. When it comes to victims, the victims are people and we need our legislation, our public view is directed towards victims, and in this case they are victims of women in the family, but they are both historical victims and our obligation is not only political, but also historic to protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78665	Thank you. Would you like an answer? No, I don't. Then we'll go to the fourth line, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78666	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm not going to congratulate you on anything special, or praise you on anything special. I was actually going to say that it's not appropriate for you to call someone, that you performed here decisively today, but you also took advantage of the opportunity to call an SDP that certainly has its responsibilities in that, but Mr. Prime Minister, there's no one here without responsibility who's sitting here. I think you too, Mr. Prime Minister, are responsible for the fact that in this meeting, people who are not conservatives are sitting in this assembly, but who are radicals, who advocate against democracy and against the values of Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And precisely about those things you were talking about today you could talk about on some earlier occasions when your party members were also very involved in family violence affairs against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78667	Thank you. Answer? No, I don't. Let's move on, then it's time for a respected colleague, Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78668	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Prime Minister, I have supported most of the arguments that you have presented today in your debate and I have brought them myself for the last year since the SDP sent the ratification procedure of this Convention. I've been coming across deaf ears, and we finally have one meaningful argument today, and I really welcome it. We are here on a common road to providing the world's greatest standard to protect women from domestic violence, and I think we should act together. The interpretative statement you have proposed is not a worthless document, I agree. It's an unnecessary document, a redundancy document, and it's simply meaningless. I'll explain that in my individual discussion, now there's no time. As for the SDP, yes, at the time of the SDP government, the convention was signed, we did not ratify it at the time of our government, but in opposition we proposed the Ratification Act. HDZ criticised us when we signed that they needed ratification, but did not propose a ratification law while in opposition. So much for credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78669	Thank you. The reply to the replica, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78670	I'm glad my colleague, Klisovic, that you have confirmed essentially everything I have said, but I disagree with you that the interpretative statement is a redundancy document. We live in a real world, in society the way it is today, a video of the situation. And she needs it. Let's try to appreciate a little bit of different sentiments, different readings, different lights and make a step out. The interpretative statement is an important, important, reference, will be part of the law that the Croatian Parliament will adopt. And he'll stay here. It is there to be a guideline for Croatian institutions as we read the Convention and therefore it is very important, I am glad that you said it is not worthless so your party president will hear it directly from you, if he does not hear me. It's useful and good to enlighten him a little bit. But she will stay here, she will adopt this House, the institution will respect the application of the convention, it is important.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78671	Thank you. The sixth replica of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78672	Thank you very much, Mr. Plenkovic. I, for one, came forward for the first time perhaps in this term, to support something you said, and I think that it should be given to the representatives of everyone in the Croatian Parliament, to ratify the Istanbul Convention and to show that some things are superseded, supersedeological, and that we should create a better society, a modern society in which we all want to live and that we do not want to go back and look behind ourselves. On that side, I'll support ratification, regardless of any statement, not any statement, because I think a step forward is better to do it together than not to make it. On the other hand, I think that as a colleague Klisovic, this statement is unnecessary, but if it corrodes you and if you feel better, then let it be, though I am convinced, that these colleagues you are trying to calm down, you will not calm down. And I would like our bishops to listen to the Roman bishop, whom in Italy did not mind.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78673	Thank you. Comrade Maras, you're done. Thank you very much. Would you like to respond to the replica? No, I don't. Then let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78674	I'm on. I need to speak quickly. Dear Prime Minister, I must truly show satisfaction that the Istanbul Convention is in Parliament and that we will have opportunities to discuss it. But it's easy to always be a general after a battle. If we who were in the government and the members of the government, the SDP coalition and the partners knew what was going to happen, they would have done everything to be ratified, because right now, the Istanbul Convention and we are discussing it in one context, one atmosphere of false news, fear, and I would say manipulation of human feelings, and we certainly are not to blame, and the question is who is to blame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78675	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78676	Yeah, well, maybe you could handle it before, when you haven't, then we'll deal with it, I hope, with what I'm spreading the consensus. As far as the atmosphere changes, I agree with you, the atmosphere has changed, that's correct. If you had put her in a procedure in May 2013 it would have been a smooth, safe dream, you didn't. But what's there is. To me, it's, since it's already like this, and you didn't rather do it to do it today, that we're trying to be committed to this convention. To try to make arguments with respect, with dialogue, with respect, to tell those who read this something else that we have mechanisms and filters and that there isn't. For those of you who think there's something there, and that's why it's good to ratify it just like this and with this interpretation statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78677	Let's move on. There was one confusion, a colleague named Bauk came forward as far as I understood on behalf of my colleague Bernardic, and then he answered, so here, now, finally let him speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78678	The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here, first of all, I'm glad that after a year, since the SDP sent a request for ratification into the parliamentary procedure, it's coming. This is absolutely certain, the mechanism in the fight against violence against women and the fight against violence against women has no alternative and this convention will help save people's lives. The SDP is for the Istanbul Convention. But my question is what's the interpretation of the statement and what's the fence of the birth, because we're aware that there are no birth ideologies, but the definition of gender exists, it's in art. 3. The time has come for us to fence ourselves in Croatia from those backward forces in society, who are trying to push us into the Middle Ages, who are trying to share people on a birth, sex, religious or national basis, and to tell them together no, because, regardless of their belongings, religious, national, birth or disputed, they share the same two premises, the right to freedom and the right to live a worthy man.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78679	Thank you. Would you like some? No, then let's move on. Dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78680	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, at the moment you came to the head of the government, you were followed by the reputation of a man who advocates dialogue. And that's how the public accepted you. However, when the Istanbul Convention opened, you told all opponents, who had their views, rightly in demographic society, that they did not understand the convention and that you had never made a greater division of the Croatian people, and we are all aware of that. In this case, you were exclusive to those who had opposition on any basis. I think you let the ghost out of the bottle and now you don't know how to bring him back. And that's the biggest problem, and your me duty, as a diameter, to make the public debate transparent, not to allow both public and public, and not to open that someone who opposes your convention is basically fascist backwards because it's what it is. I think you're bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78681	Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78682	As much as you wouldn't like to hear from the President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, all that you have now said that we are now going to look for quotes, my statements, I guarantee you with everything I have, you will not find a single sentence that you have spoken, which coincides with any of my statements on this subject. Stop being so easy to say in this House things that are not true and are not true. Don't do that again, you or any of the likes of this house. You are doing damage in this House, the reputation of the Croatian Parliament, the reputation of Croatian institutions, and you are disturbing me, you are disrupting the argument, responsible discussions in Croatian society in this way. And what you just said doesn't stand and it's incorrect. There is no shortcut, public consultation, government legislative plan, program, sending to parliament Point. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And talk to everyone about it. Yes, well, with you, but true. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78683	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure or are you giving up? I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78684	Thank you very much, President. Well, mostly I'll be brief, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you've allowed the Prime Minister to speak falsely as an agent, but the fact is that you said you'd explain to those who don't understand the conventions. That's all I told you. So if you don't understand, if these don't understand the convention, if you object to all your beings, this time you have divided the unique being of the Croatian people And you put the unthinkers in position... [[Intruder Bulj: colleague Bulj, no, not just a little.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78685	My colleague Bulj, you are being warned because you have violated the Rules of Procedure. First you didn't say which article was injured, and the second you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. You abused the institute this time. This is the first warning. After the second, you lose your right to debate on this point. Let's move on. Dear colleague Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78686	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your political courage to push this story through to the end. What we could and what we know were not done by the government, the government before you. But I also call for today's debate not to be a political bickering because we will lose focus on what we are today. We are here today because of those women who may not listen to this today, or hear but suffer daily violence in their family, and children have daily destroyed childhoods and all of this actually leaves a mark on those families that we must not think about that the family must survive at all costs if there is violence in it because we must help that woman and those children get away from that family even if it meant divorce. I'm glad you explained how much the application would cost. As far as I'm concerned, I think it should be clear to everyone that it's not a matter of price, but it's important that we didn't put a reserve on a provision that prescribed the responsibility of the state to compensate the victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78687	Thank you, fellow Strenja-Linić. Then let's go to the next line. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78688	Mr. Prime Minister, you have also said several times in your presentation that the statement which forms an integral part of the bill in Article 4 is in line with the legal service of the Council of Europe. I don't know if you mean a document that's been declassified since January 11th that may have been done before you and the government made this interpretative statement, and I'm asking that because in Article 4, that is, part of the law is the concept of gender ideology that is nowhere defined, nor in that law, nor anywhere else. One distinguished fellow professor of constitutional law says it's an imaginary monster. The legal service of the Council of Europe does not use that term in its document, because it is my question why are you including it in Article 4 of the Law proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78689	Go ahead, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78690	It's a good thing you mentioned the date of this document, dear colleague Podolnjak. The Legal Service of the Council of Europe has faced such campaigns against this Convention not only in Croatia, but in a number of Member States and it has been done by erga omnes. She worked for everyone. But she kept it classified. We got information that he exists, we talked about him, and we wanted him to be declassified. When we say we agreed on an interpretative statement not with this document, but with people who are engaged in the implementation, who are looking at interpretative statements and reserves that individual countries are putting on this convention, and these are experts who have read well what we have written and why we have put it on. We have a very clear, solid reason independent of the general accepted in scientific circles of definition. We have a clear political reason, and the interpretative statement allows that, and that's why there's a colleague of the Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78691	The 12th replica of a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78692	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. You mentioned something called gender ideology. I've been reading this document carefully. There's a lineage, but gender ideology doesn't. You're a learned man, so I'd like to ask you to tell me what gender ideology is. Is gender ideology a fight against domestic violence? Is gender ideology a struggle for women's right to make decisions about their own body? Is gender ideology a struggle for equality between men and women? Is gender ideology taking equal pay for equal work? If it's Mr. Plenkovic, then I'm a natural ideologist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78693	Nothing. And then we go to the last, thirteenth replica of the esteemed colleague Sabine the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78694	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. I am truly sorry that you had to spend this much energy and time in your opening presentation in order to remove the fears of one part of the electoral body from a completely imaginary concept of gender ideology, and in fact, there is no such termology. There is gender-conditional violence against which this Convention fights, there is gender equality, gender equality. However, gender ideology absolutely does not exist. The only fear we need today is the fear of women who are suffering violence at this very moment and I believe that we should support this convention. Many have said these days that I support you regardless of the interpretation of the statement or not. Yes, but I don't support you. I support the fight against violence against women, and I will support you when you remove from your ranks the violent men who commit violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78695	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78696	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, HDZ's already reacted, I'm talking to your last line. HDZ responded. Why would HDZ, a party of people responsible, serious, family, democracies, as counterpart Zekanovic says, wear someone else's labels? He won't. He won't. That's one of the reasons why I want this ratified in the wider political sense of this debate. I'm sure it's not the most important thing, but we're not wearing other people's labels. Everyone has to answer for it in criminal, criminal, moral terms, and if you're pulling that example out, that's exactly where we gave you the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78697	We're moving on to committee discussions now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. I would like to remind you that according to the new Rules of Procedure, there is no replication of club exposure, so I would like to call first the Club of Representatives of the SDP, a respected colleague of Arsen Bauk, to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78698	I must first commend the monolithity of the party. None of those who are against the Convention have dared to replicate to the party president. Congratulations. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the ratification of this Convention. Data on domestic violence and violence against women are inconclusive arguments that speak of the need for ratification of this Convention. This was well argued by the Prime Minister and there is no need to repeat it further. We hope that ratification will monitor and ensure adequate means for it to be implemented in reality. I mean financial resources and hope that ratification will receive more than two-thirds of the votes of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament ratified many international agreements with more or less discussions, but no international document has caused this much public attention, including drama within the largest ruling party. It's not an accident. And that's why we in the SDP can't pretend that nothing is happening around us and realizes this debate on the mere technical confirmation of a document that represents the continuity of the policies of all governments since 2008 until today. It is our duty to talk about the reasons why the ratification of this Convention has caused this kind of media attention and I will do it here on behalf of the SDP Club and do it. Some aggressions are obvious. You can see tanks, planes, soldiers. Against these aggressions, however, it is easier to defend itself because the front line is quite clearly visible, and the defense of the attacked is a self-comprehensible organisational need. When, however, individual freedom attacks, the possibility of defence is often lost in the haze of political, religious or economic so-called. That's true. The front of such aggression is always wrapped in colorful and shriveled papers of higher truths, goals, and morals. This began with celebrating life, family and similar appearances on Croatian streets. Smiled children, diligent youth, and exemplary moral citizens were supposed to be symbols of a time whose future is coming. The threat could only be seen with a little elemental logic. Did you really think that the family team would stop at marriage and not hit on women's rights, medically assisted insemination, abortion, Cyrillic, English. All that followed later only showed that an organized blow to individual and society’s freedoms was becoming increasingly clear. Today, it is clear that it is a true collision of worlds, an open battle for the future, and the result is still uncertain. It began with an attempt to introduce health education, a part of which would be sexual education. But there, it didn't pass. Church and Catholic associations have risen to their backs, with the support of the opposition HDZ and have opposed such alleged ideological poisoning of youth. No civil education was accepted either. Because educated citizens who know their rights and obligations in democratic society clearly pose a death threat. Then they hit on homosexuals. Clear and younger activists and activists collected millions of locations in the country for a referendum that established the definition of marriage as a community of men and women in the Constitution in order to prevent the adoption of the Life Partnership Act. Predictable. Following the blow was an abortion, in front of hospitals where the procedure is being conducted, and sometimes they are also gathering a community of begging for a life that wants to put additional pressure on women who decide to stop their pregnancy. Doctors and staff in many local health institutions have begun to object to the procedure and thus reduce its availability. On the streets once a year, walking for a life full of colorful balloons and smiling people began, and last year a petition was handed over with 168 thousand signatures for the legal protection of unborn life. But since these same actors are terrible and against contraception and sexual education, it is clear that the ban on abortion is only a cover for the real goal of the whole effort. Namely, crusaders don't stand for freedom. The same team, with the clear help of the church, which interferes even in party untarstrative relations and hides pedophilia within its ranks, is also leading today a battle against the Istanbul Convention, mostly using typical arguments taken by the global movement against ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Protection against Family Violence. Actually, so-called. argument because it's talking about boys who'll have to be girls and stuff. are only suitable fuel to cause moral panic among less informed citizens. As with the abortion, the impact on the Istanbul Convention is only a cover for the real goal. And he's not destroying the so-called. Brusselsan father, so-called a false prophet and so on. Snake whisperer Andrej Plenkovic. The goal of modern crusaders, as much as they talk about love, morality and family, is slavery. And what is happening right now in Croatia is the aggression of broad scales. It is a manifesto of the return to the natural order, an agenda for Europe describing methods and goals that sound alarmingly familiar and thus even more frightening. It's wrong to view morale as a private matter. The acceptance of divorce, contraception, abortion, homosexuality, surrogate motherhood and so forth contains implications not only for those directly involved, but for the whole society, including those who oppose it, says in a part of the document that is very clearly sketching the restriction of freedom and as the ultimate goal of the victory of morality and of the law of course, so-called. Moral and so-called. Of course the law. Targets are also listed to show that abortion bans are only stage. All same-sex communities, divorces, birth control, prenatal diagnostics, medically assisted fertilisation would be prohibited, all equality laws and anti-discrimination regulations withdrawn. At times, there were tans in the Republic of Croatia, and today on the citizens of Croatia and their freedom, modern crusaders. This is, let's not lie, Mr. Prime Minister, an open fundamentalistic war against freedom. The victory of the law of course would not only mean the establishment of a totalitarian system in reproductive rights, but it would, without a doubt, be extended to all other human activities as well. After all, who is this authority that defines the natural law? Who are his authorized interpreters? In the 21st century, it should be normal for anyone to live by either 10 commands of God or by those ethical principles that they consider to be right, whatever they please. However, such freedom is not organically tolerated. The defense begins by raising awareness of threats, threats that are quite visible today, clear and global. It's time for more active democratic resistance. If we are passive, one day after all those who are second and different, we will come our turn. This is a struggle for the freedom of individuals and the ratification of this Convention is one step in this fight and there is no way we can give up this fight and be on the wrong side of history in the vote on Friday. In this struggle, the proposed interpretative statement is an unnecessary submission to those who are against ratification of the Convention because they are against individual freedom and, as you can see, have not approved them at all. It's about a concession that shouldn't have happened, and we're going to make an amendment to get her out of the law. For the first time in the official legal text, the name of gender ideology is mentioned, which is the complete invention of those circles that I spoke about earlier and should be clearly said, there exists, gender ideology does not exist. I can also announce that we will oppose all democratic and commercial means which would go against those legal solutions that would go towards the restriction of individual rights, the right of women to freedom of choice, the rights of extramarital communities, the rights of national minorities, the rights of transgender persons and the rights of all who are other and different. The ratification of this Convention is not the end of the struggle for individual freedom, this is only the end of the fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78699	There is no replication of club exposure, only to those who did not understand or read it, but counterpart Zekanovic sought to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78700	Dear President of the Parliament. A colleague named Bauk broke his rank. 238. He didn't talk about the subject of the debate, with the fact that I have to stress here, he mentioned crusaders, fundamentalists, abortions, which are not the subject of this debate, but here I must stress that he was, in fact, demeaning a large group of citizens in our society, which is not acceptable, which I can put into hate speech. It is therefore an infringement of the Rules of Procedure. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78701	I give you a warning from my colleague Zekanovic because... Give it up! No, I don't need you, thank you, you don't have to clap on me, because you hurt the Rules of Procedure because my colleague Bauk was saying what he thought was right and what he thought was right. It's his attitude that you can agree with or disagree with, but you can't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Someone may have had or will have any objections to your exposure, but I won't let him use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So this is the first warning, after the second you lose your word and the right to participate in this debate. Here you go. It is the HDZ's Club of Representatives and Honorable Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78702	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, Minister, State Secretary, esteemed fellow MPs and MPs. Introductoryly, although this has been said many times in the Croatian public, in the Croatian Parliament, in public debates, I will repeat several known facts about the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which was drawn up in May 2011 in Istanbul and is then open to the signing of all Member States of the Council of Europe, those who did not, but participated in its creation and all EU Member States. On 22 January 2013, the Republic of Croatia became the 27th member to sign this Convention. It is crucial and important to point out once again that the aim and intention of this document is to protect women from violence, as it says in its first article, that the purpose of the Convention is to protect women from all forms of violence, prevention, persecution and the elimination of violence against women and domestic violence. It is also said in the scope of this Convention that it will apply to all forms of violence against women, including violence in families that are disproportionately affected by women. All those States which are signatories of this Convention shall be encouraged to apply the Convention to all victims of domestic violence and in the application of the provisions of this Convention shall pay particular attention to women victims of gender-founded violence. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 3. this Convention, in particular, should be stressed that the violation of human rights is considered to be gender-founded violence against women I stress, means violence directed at a woman because she is a woman or who is disproportionately affected by women. As long as it takes this Convention in the Republic of Croatia, they speak the defeating and frightening data that we have heard from the Prime Minister, which the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Demography, Social Welfare and Family bring us. Although in the Republic of Croatia we have a number of legal acts in force for the part-round work of the Ministry of Demography, Social Welfare and Family, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health, the Convention is needed for reasons, I will only read the statistics for 2016 and 2017 of the MUP, which says as far as killings among close persons are concerned, that 43 crimes of murder in 2016 have been committed in which 20 women died. In total, 19 crimes of murder involving 15 female victims were committed by close individuals, which is in fact 79%. In 2017, 43 crimes of murder were committed in which 18 women were killed to death. In total, 19 murder crimes were committed by close individuals, including 19 female victims or just over 63%. As for domestic abuse, 11948 perpetrators were reported in 2016, 77.15% of the perpetrators were male and 22.85% female. This breach damaged a total of 13362 victims, 63% of them women. In 2017, 11506 perpetrators were reported and the offence damaged 12476 victims, of which 64% were women. As regards the crimes of domestic violence in 2016, 330 crimes were recorded in which 15.45% of women were damaged and 2017. 554 crimes, in which 464 persons of female and only 90 male were damaged. As for the shelter for victims of domestic violence, 19 shelters for victims of domestic violence, run by civil society organisations, religious communities and other legal entities, and the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy financially supports the work of 18 victims of violence in various areas of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is crucial to stress that, according to the ministry's calculations of the ministry's competent services from earlier years, according to reports provided by the ministries, the average fill-up of these shelters from the headline system, where the accommodation is based on social care centres solutions, 85%. Also, shelters do not exist in the Republic of Croatia in the area of Krapina-Zagorska, Ličko-senjska, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Koprivnica-križevnica, Požega-slavonska and Virovička-Podravska County. It is not necessary to talk about their need for establishment and all that this Convention can contribute to the prevention of such defeating statistics. As regards laws, their implementation so far, but also future laws to be passed in the Croatian Parliament, it should be said that incorrect and insinuating claims that education on gender ideology must be introduced into schools, that by adopting the Istanbul Convention there is no coercion from anyone. All control mechanisms for the implementation of human rights in a particular country that ratifys the Istanbul Convention work through recommendations that are not legally binding, such as the Convention, are already an interpretation of what needs to be improved in the legislative framework of a given country. It is important to stress that for the first time at international level, this Convention regulates safeguards, shelters, risk assessments and prescribes forms of violence to be criminalised, such as Following, physical violence, rape, forced marriages, organ mutilation in women, forced abortions, forced sterilisation, etc., and this Convention was made, which should also be highlighted by the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights, in which the victim is placed at the centre in order to avoid double victimisation. The politicisation of this ratification and capture, in fact, in the Croatian media space of about two to three sentences, which are not the essence of the Convention, nor its purpose, is actually causing a debate that has not been launched so far, and could begin with the goals of associations that create moral panic and discuss them perhaps much more than the Convention itself. Finally, the ratification of this Convention, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with ratification of this Convention, has submitted and announced an interpretative statement that is covered up by various hidden and possibly most political interests unjustly underestimating and neglecting the public, stressing once again that the Convention does not contain gender ideology and that it is in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in particular with the provisions of the Constitution on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This defines both family and marriage and the right of parents to raise children and freedom of religion. The Republic of Croatia's ratification is important for fighting violence against women and domestic violence, stressing its fundamental values and respecting the values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78703	Let's move on. Now it is the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78704	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with ministers, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. There have been a lot of debates over the past weeks and the past months regarding the Istanbul Convention. Many examples are cited in these discussions. Many examples that want to spread fears, fears, stereotypes of social and psychological that we possess when it comes to relations between men and women, when it comes to some of the traditional values that we have in our society. And speaking of these examples, I'll take and start my speech on behalf of the SDSS club with one example. 91st year, unfortunate '91. In the year when the war began in our country, a film called Virginia was filmed in the vicinity of Knina. Virginia is in anthropology and ethnology a name for a woman, for a girl, for a girl who, because of her patriarchal mentality and patriarchal rules in the given circumstances, needs to become a man by her will or will by her environment, her parents, her family, as we say today. That means, if by some accident, as it was said, a male child was born in a family, but all seven and eight were girls, it was a shame at the time for that family. And this family has reached out to a rule in some parts of the dinar, including Dalmatia where I was born, for one of these girls to become a man, to act like a man, to act like a man, to preserve the honor of her family. She was named Virginia. The last such girl or woman died in 2016 in Montenegro, who lived most of her life as a man. Why? To defend the honor of the family because it is a shame not to have a male creature, a male family or a child, as they said in Montenegro or speak today. That's, you're going to say, an extreme example. But nothing less extreme than talking about toilets or nothing less extreme than hearing stories about kids at school in the morning having to be a man and a woman in the afternoon. Because that's the kind of thing we hear and listen to, unfortunately. Those we now listen to in nothing are verifiable, evidence or visible, but fiction, and this example I was talking about and that Srdjan Karanovic made a film about, are historical examples. For centuries, it lasted in Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia and our Dalmatia. We no longer have such examples today, but we have other forms of behavior. In democratic America in '55. The years I was born were adopted code or code or rule on how a woman has to treat her husband. That she should always be smiling and welcome her husband smiled at home, and if she is unable to do so, it is recommended to operate on one of the frontal lobes guaranteeing that she will welcome her husband at home smiling. And that's what women did. Get dressed, take a shower, make up, make dinner, make up the kids and meet your man. I believe that's not the case with us and most of our families today. I believe that's not true in most American families today, but we have relics. And the examples that I've set here are both the prime minister and colleague who spoke on behalf of HDZ and colleagues who will speak, at least a colleague from my club, with a number of examples of violence by men to women of a total number of 11,000 cases, say that we still have a lot of work to do. I'm going to set another example here, since we're talking about examples. In politics, obviously, examples bring some kind of influence in communication. '865. The year was an important U.S. Congress to discuss the amendment to abolish slavery. You know how that debate went? Historically, incomparably more important than our debate today or our debates this week and this week. Burno. I'm going to set an example that can also be seen in video formats. When a representative of the South or the Confederation says, will we let blacks be equal, free them from slavery, free them? So what does that mean? So how far will that go? This means that in the next step, we will give them the opportunity to vote, and then in step after that, not only will blacks be able to vote, but women will also be able to vote. What were the reactions to that? They're very tumultuous. Why? Because we, as social and political communities, see differently the relationship between us human beings and sex and by skin color and social and ethnic and religious status and reach for different forms of violence because of these differences towards each other. And there are numerous examples in our country's history when it comes to that. The numerous and very often brutal, as well as the murder of this innocent girl, the pregnant, who was killed by a young man in the most brutal and cruelest way possible by killing a part of herself. And you know, don't let anyone blame me, and I'm often alone in the places where he prays. The one who talked about it if we gave blacks the right to freedom means we'd have to give them the right to vote. If we give it to them, we'll have to give it to the women. He referred to the Christian teaching and the provisions of the Bible. It's very important, it's very important that we understand that what represents the basis of our civilizations must not even be a restriction on the growth of our civilization. We all know that Judeo-Christian culture is the foundation of our civilization, if that's what we have to say here. But we all also know that as a community, we have decided to regulate constitutional states, and I will read for all those who need it. 1. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. This Law ensures the protection and promotion of equality as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Premises are created to achieve equal opportunities and regulate protection against discrimination based on race or ethnicity or colour of skin, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, property status, union membership, education, social status, marital or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic heritage, birth identity, research, expression or sexual orientation. In 2008. In a conversation with the former prime minister and former prime minister, I know how consensus has been reached on this issue. With the first people of the Catholic Church in this country. There are ministers here who can testify today. What changed from that time to today? We have become a society where we fail to control equality, or inequality. We fail with no social inequality, no economic inequality, no regional inequality. As a minority representative, I am not going to talk about interethnic equality today because I do not want to abuse this pay phone and this opportunity for that purpose. There's a chance. But if we were to devote this much time to the social and economic inequality that our people suffer from, our citizens, if we dedicated this much time, if this much emotional and total intellectual energy in us were to cause regional inequality, the fact that someone lives in one place, and someone else is born in Zagreb, and someone else is born in Gospić, or someone is born in Lower Lapca, and someone is born in Pula. If we could pay that much attention, I'd be the first one to say we're doing the right thing. But with what we're dealing with right now, we're actually making it impossible for ourselves to deal with these issues. The countries our young people go to, like Austria, like Germany, like Scandinavian countries, deal with these issues. Great Britain has not ratified because it has dilemmas about the issue of legal powers and the issue of trial and trial around, which are about the issue of the Istanbul Convention, not about this issue which is now trying to impose or open itself as a topic. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, and we who will raise our hands for this Istanbul Convention, are no less than some other traditions, as the judeo-Christian cultures and traditions say. Nothing less. And I don't give anyone the right to say it belongs to me anymore. Maybe some other stuff more. But what's important to us is that as a civilized society, we know that no tradition should be a limit to our growth, to our development, to our prosperity, to equality between us. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this Convention. And I'll say two more things. We also decided to send and adopt an interpretative statement. And she'll be supported by the SDSS Attorney's Club. Is he in all agreement with her? It's not. Is he at all agreeable when we work in the coalition where we belong? It's not. Are we in all agreement when we vote for the things our partners expect us to vote for? It's not. But we vote. Why? Well, because it is the obligation of the political alliance. So is the obligation of marriage. To build a compromise, to endure and what would otherwise not have been endured because there are goals to be achieved in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78705	Thank you. Let's move on. HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representatives' club. There are two MPs who will speak. The first one's next, dear colleague Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78706	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Because of all the things we've heard and these days what we've been exposed to, there's a question of what we should be talking about today. Whether or not the Convention and its contents are talking about the political-psychological effects of the Convention that should yet be voted, which should be ratified. I don't believe there's one reasonable man, I don't believe there's one adult who has an IQ above 50, who would be or who would plead to support violence. So we're talking about non-violence, violence against women. So is it possible to talk about it and convince each other that we are against that violence? Is it possible to convince each other that we are against domestic violence? I've spent my entire professional life listening and I've witnessed terrible violent methods between men and women, between women and men, violent methods that have destroyed childhood and there's no doubt that we're all against it. However, the violence as it is set here raises doubts in the right direction. The Republic of Croatia has more than 17 domestic laws and contracts to prevent violence. Why don't we do it, that's the real question. Since I have a little time left, I'm going to go to another detail. To violence in communication. Today we have heard unremembered violence here. The violence that settled under the cross. Cruises can't stand freedom. What is it, gentlemen? We'll talk about violence. The cross is a symbol of suffering and sacrifice for another. This is the most shameless attack on Christianity so far. The most shameless attack on Christianity. So people who wear crosses can't stand freedom. That's scary. And we will ratify conventions that will prevent violence. When I was talking about violence here, a few months ago, we didn't pay attention to that. As you become a bully, that's the real question. But what happened to this convention? It happened that no topic has ever been so exploited by the formation of a violent consciousness in society as this one. I've been, like, ten days, harassed by messages, statements from all sides. On different sides. What do I have to do? Isn't that violence, gentlemen? On the one hand and on the other. How come someone's right to take away my right to think? The question is, why is that? Because we're thugs, we're all together. Violents all together. And in the end, it turns out that the goal here is someone else. Introduce additional mess in the Assembly and realize some other goals that have nothing to do with this Convention. She'll be voted. I have 5% of the reserve when it comes to this convention, but it divided our club. She divided the Horg, Kosor, Glavas and me. You're in the head. I see Branimir. Glavas and Kosor will vote for ratification, Hrg and I will vote against. I may remain in an individual debate to explain why, but I wonder if it makes sense to explain it that way. Why is the Convention written like that? So it can be interpreted in different ways. I'm not a lawyer, but I expected to get one material legal that would clearly define what the goal is. However, we have received a material that, may the experts who wrote it forgive me, it is illiterately written, it is illiterately written. Is it possible to read two different contents from the same material? Is it possible for me to see something called Colloquial Ideology today without anyone seeing it? So it's written so you can see each other and it's a danger. And that's the danger. Someone doesn't see her going to school. I see. Get in the media, like a commitment. I see it. I haven't even been given time to consult anyone. I haven't been given the opportunity to explain myself and it offends my common sense when I'm told it's not there. Legal experts, some say yes, some say no. Neuroscience says one thing, convention says another. Therefore, this Convention, no matter how important it is, must be no place or reason for discord. If she didn't bring anything positive, she made it positive that we could talk freely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78707	Now it's time for your esteemed colleague, Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78708	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here you have heard from Mr. Dodig's statement that our club is divided. I would say partially divided because our club consists of 3 parties, HSLS, HDS and HDSSB. Two of the three parties think differently from Mr. Dodig. So, with Mr. Kosor's permission, I speak for HSLS. HSLS and HDSSB will support this Convention. They will support this Convention for a reason because it is in accordance with the Constitution. They will support this convention for reasons because we are part of the ruling majority, and it is known that HDZ is clearly and unequivocally announced during its pre-election campaign in its pre-election programme that it will ratify the Istanbul Convention during its term of office. So I'm surprised that part of the MPs inside the HDZ are as if he's fallen from Mars for the first time he's heard about what's part of their pre-election program, but it's their internal party thing. In our election programme, I think of the HDSSB, we were not touched by that point because we, we have to recognise the small party and we simply did not consider it to be some big priority at the time because we were aware that we were not going to be the political force to decide on it. We heard from the prime minister's statement that it is a lie that it takes a billion kuna a year to work, as a result of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, that the amount is moving somewhere between 80 million and 100 million kuna. We also heard that the Republic of Croatia can run its experts in this famous... to monitor the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But most importantly for me, for the HDSSB when I presented the HDSSB's position 10 days ago regarding our behaviour in the Croatian Parliament, taking a stand in the Croatian Parliament, when the topic comes to the agenda. I'll only mention an article. 80. The Convention, which discusses the possibility of revoking the Convention, the possible cancellation of the Convention in the future. That's the one. The 80th says that any party may cancel this Convention at any time via a notification sent to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. Such cancellation shall result in an effect on the first day and month following the expiry of a period of 3 months from the date of receipt of the notification by the Secretary-General. So there's no dilemma. I believe that the Convention should be ratified at this time, and I believe that there is also the possibility of prolonging certain potentially inconclusive items in financial terms for the next 5 years, so the Convention provides for an additional 5 years, if the Republic of Croatia is not financially monitoring its obligations by signing this Convention and I think very little has been said about it so far. So, the Croatian Parliament needs to ratify this Convention today, and the time ahead will show whether the fears and fears of those opposers who are very loud today, who express their attitude and even refer letters to the MPs where they are warned, where they are urged not to vote for this Convention, are truly unnecessarily irrelevant and I find it completely unnecessary. The last month since the debate on ratification of the Istanbul Convention in the Republic of Croatia opened, one general hysteria has taken place. I would like to make my observations about the events or the thinking of a large part of the public on this issue. A large part of the public is simply not at all interested in this issue, i.e. the problem of ratification of the Convention, is not interested in the reasons or not being familiar with the content of this Convention or being familiar with one or another way or under the influence of one or other political current that prefers or which declares a negative attitude towards the adoption of this Convention. That this is very important what I say and that I think it's not harmless, that art. 80. Convention relating to the cancellation of this Convention in the coming years or subsequent meetings of the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to draw attention to the activities of the civil initiative of truth in the Istanbul Convention, Istanbul, drawn up in 30-odd civil society associations that have formulated their referendum issue, which is whether the Republic of Macedonia cancels the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family (Istabul Convention)? So it is not at all doubtful that the Croatian Parliament in its current meeting in a year, in a future meeting of 3 or 4 years or in a meeting for 8 years, if it is proven true and true that it advocates and propagates opponents of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which will potentially negatively or harmfully affect Croatian society and generations, the young generations that come, at any moment the Croatian Parliament can withdraw its signature and cancel today or Friday's ratified convention. Therefore, there is no reason to worry and therefore the HDSSB and HSLS remain firm on their stand to support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention on Friday. I would also like to stress that the interpretative statement is an additional fuse that is binding. First of all, the Croatian Parliament undertakes to adopt some future laws, which would touch that matter and that interpretative statement if it is not fully binding on the Council of Europe, it is binding on this Croatian Parliament, which this Croatian Parliament will be bound by In the event of the adoption of certain laws, you have to abide by it. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]] Another sentence, the HDSSB is a regional, national and European side and therefore supports the Istanbul Convention with HSLS as a member of our club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78709	Thank you. It is now up to the club of IDS, PGS and RLI representatives and respected counterpart Boris Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78710	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, the colleagues, fellow MPs. At the very beginning, I would like to express my satisfaction that this extremely important international document aimed at preventing and combating violence against women, violence in the family is finally put on the agenda. And let me express a special pride that the IDS in cooperation with the parties' GLAS and smartly updateing this issue encouraged the government to refer the convention to the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. As we have pointed out countless times, preventing violence against women is a fundamental question of civilization and should not be a basis for any cheap acquisition of political points. We have always advocated and uncompromisingly fought for the protection of fundamental human rights in the IDS, and we believe that the level of protection of human rights must not in any way depend on political calculations at some point. It is the Istanbul Convention that defines violence against women as a serious violation of human rights and forms of discrimination and enables victims of violence to have the same level of protection in all European countries. All of this indicates how vital it is that we finally begin to work to change the legislation and strengthen the protection of women and families from any form of violence. In Croatia, we have more and more abused women every year, and we are even thinking about whether we should discuss and accept such a document that this brutal violence is trying to prevent. I know it's not easy to remove everything overnight, but let's make at least trends change. The growth of women's killings suggests that legal, judicial and media measures to combat violence against women so far have not yielded the desired result, and it is a convention that provides this for the first time to build more effective protection and change of the system in the fight against violence against women. Yes, there are examples where certain units of local or regional self-government have done what they can, and I think it's time for the state to send a very clear message on whose side it is. We in the IDS are at a zero rate of tolerance for violence, and we believe that any violent behavior must come upon the condemnation of the entire society. Therefore, any move towards protecting women's rights is simply necessary. In this sense, it is necessary for Croatia to install in its legal system such legal protection of women who exist in Western countries, and thus we are going towards becoming a modern European state whose protection of human rights is a priority. That is why we must resist retrograde attitudes and a radical right that, by attacking this Convention, wants to prevent Croatia from being in a circle of developed EU countries. It is clear that attacks on the Istanbul Convention are not an isolated case, but part of a broader campaign of ultra-conservative groups lately. This negative campaign goes towards blocking and curriculative reforms, then attempts to introduce provisions that would not be acceptable in the family law in the 19th century, etc. In the IDS, we stand up to it all the time and we'll keep doing it. The debate on the convention in public space has led to a series of incredible untruths and manipulations aimed at discriminating and demonizing all those who are in any way different. It is not about the different values and attitudes, but about the placement of classical black propaganda, whose ultimate aim is to discriminate against certain groups of our citizens. It is an impressive and frightening ease with which individuals threw out banal and easily verifiable lies. This will not stand at the convention, and with such radical views we will meet on all relevant issues, from the family law through educational reform and ultimately with the Law on Abortion. This is why I appeal to everyone who sees Croatia as an open, tolerated and advanced country to be loud and to oppose them in every possible way with restrictive, intolerant and backward ideas. Let us not allow the normalization of the exclusion and impatience spread by ultra-conservative groups. This will bring Croatia back decades. In the end, I will express my satisfaction once again, because we are finally talking in the Parliament about the Istanbul Convention. Preventing any form of discrimination, especially violence against women, is a fundamental question of civilization. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention will legitimise us as a modern and progressive state. That's why I'm calling on all MPs to ratify this important document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78711	Thank you. We are going to the meeting of the Advocacy Club for Croatia's esteemed colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78712	Honorable MPs and MPs. In recent months, so much has been said and written about the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, hence the Colloquial Istanbul Convention, that it is difficult to add something new. Skillful political media manipulation imposes a dichotomy that reads: “You are either an unconditional advocate of ratification and thus a civil emancipated, an opponent of violence against women, or you are, on the other hand, an opponent of ratification and thus a proponent of all kinds of violence against women subtlely and refined in the spirit of tolerance designated as so-called. Catotaliban, Bauk's modern crusader, religious fundamentalist, stuttered conservative, right extremist and the like."Simplified or enthusiastic follower and admirer of Mr Jean Claude Juncker, Andrej Plenkovic, Mrs Rade Boric or you are unrealized and potential Joseph Fritzl and Abu Bakr al-Bagdadi between there must be no or any other position or understanding. The Independent Club for Croatia is unconditionally opposed not only to ratification but also to the very act of joining the Istanbul Convention. We have presented clear views and arguments as Parliamentarians and politicians in recent months. We weren't hiding behind the so-called. consciences or as political and secular hermaphrodites avoided attitude. The Croatian public, particularly voters whose votes are the enthroned power of Mr Plenkovic, who now tramples their electoral will and deepest beliefs know and need to know that they are the only independent for Croatia, I repeat the only representative club in the Croatian Parliament who will vote against ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Since political-media manipulation with the features of agitprop and the spread of false news has led to a break-up point, which there is no opposition at all. You need to get back to the scale of things. Independent for Croatia refuse ratification for the following reasons: If we accept that the sole purpose of this Convention is supposed to be to ignore, for a moment, the ideological and genealogical background and the real long-term objectives of what is set out in Article 1a. I quote: "Protect women from all forms of violence and prevent, prosecute, eliminate violence against women and violence in the family through more than 40 different provisions." In this case, its not only ratification but also adoption becomes unfounded with an indisputable argument that all these provisions are already incorporated into Croatian legislation. Since the purpose of this Convention is real and hidden on the other hand, and that the protection of women from violence is merely a fig tree and a means of achieving other ideological goals opposed not only to what we call traditional social values and anthropology resulting from the monotheist Jewish-Islamic heritage, but also from opposed and science to biological facts, both in the end and in common with common sense and common sense. We come to another reason why the club is independent of Croatia against ratification. This reason is related to fundamental worldly and valuable issues on which not only the Croatian people rests but also the human race as such. Contrary to these foundations, there is a challenge to what we can call gender ideology, birth theory, or whatever we want to which it is inspired and this convention that its actual authors do not hide. So, her author is not Mr. Plenkovic or Mrs. Murganic but rather a very clear lobby of experts for what is also called a academic discipline birth theory. So, the basis of this ideology or theory is manipulation with a fluid confusional and multi-significant concept of gender, unfortunately already penetrating in Croatian legislation through HDZ, the SDP Government that needs to gradually replace a biologically defined sex as a mere legal classification and an alleged source of inequality and different discrimination. Since this is neither a place nor a time for an academic debate of outwitting, I will only look back at the government's argument and various gender activists by which there is no gender ideology or birth theory in this Convention, although it is clear to everyone who is referred and is not an expert in so-called “expert”. Birth studies, it's clear that it's the very theory that she's inspired. Ignoring the interpretational statements which read as quoting "the Republic of Croatia considers that the provisions do not contain the obligation to introduce gender ideology when, after ratification from the point of view of the fact that implementation has legal weight", the Republic of Croatia finds that the cheese rolls do not contain cheese, by their sub-intelligent nature, that I do not say stupidity and understatement of the mind and arguments about the Convention have no gender ideology because I quote "no mention in the text anywhere". According to that quasi, neither Marx’s Communist manifesto is the expression of Marxism because it does not mention the word Marxism, for example Matthew or John’s Gospels could be called Christian writings because they do not mention the word Christianity. Starcevic's writings with the expression of Croatian national ideology or nationalism because they do not mention the words ideology and nationalism etc. Therefore, the key arguments of the convention itself and the government's explanations should be the definition of the concept of gender that does not undermine sex, but from which it is nevertheless different as quoting "socially shaped roles of behaviour of activity and qualities which a particular society considers appropriate for women and men". However, this flat-rate definition in itself points to the ideological background of the entire convention, since it has no scientific basis, has already come up with one of the definitions of gender-based theoretical retorts because, in social reality, what is called in the convention is gender roles and gender stereotypes that social engineering needs to be removed, it is impossible to recognise only learned and cultural factors without any link to biological factors arising from sex, especially motivation and violence against women as well as to anyone else to perform and bring them down exclusively to so-called biological factors. birth roles and stereotypes. So Sankylotic ideological and totalitarian inspired that, sir, I don't see it here Bauk, an example of totalitarian mentality and context, so the totalitarian spirit of this convention is clearly visible precisely from what is called an explaining report and comments along with its provisions. Just a few allegations, I quote, "Distant changes to the obligations of the Convention are sought based on the belief that existing patterns of behaviour of women and men are influenced by prejudices, gender stereotypes and customs and traditions that need to be annulled, which are gender polarised". Furthermore, in the totalitarian spirit of the parties to the Convention, it is required that measures be taken to promote changes in the quotations of Orwel mentality and attitudes should be influenced by quoting "the heart and minds of individuals who, by their behaviour towards the authors, contribute to the maintenance of the forms of violence covered by the scope of this Convention". Thus, such a pseudo-science, totalitarian concept according to Article 14 should be promoted at all levels of education from kindergartens to universities through appropriate furniture and work materials. There is also a totalitarian inspired obligation to expand the promotion of so-called. non-stereotype gender roles and all quotes “unformal educational activities, cultural, sports activities and including religious educational institutions”. Therefore, on this trail are and this is particularly missed by the public articles 27 and 28 of the application, so the application by experts who... that the rules of confidentiality or secrecy prescribed by law and other acts, for example by doctors, lawyers or priests, no longer constitute an obstacle to the possibility of reporting to competent organisations or bodies if I quote "justified reason to believe that a difficult act of violence covered by the area has been committed". This Convention opens, among other things, Pandora's box of possible abuses and different particularly in post-Communist societies of deep-rooted denunciation practices with unsightly social consequences. Therefore, this ratification of this Convention is also an additional narrowing of the sovereignty of the Croatian state below the level derived from EU membership, this is seen through the introduction of a supervisory authority and a tutorship in the form of so-called "torture". Groups of experts for action, so-called I was wrong. And I would also turn to one detail, so in the ideological background of the real objectives of this convention, including first-class hypocrites, it bears witness to something that has failed in all discussions and polemics. According to the Convention, GREVIO will consist of at least 10 and not more than 15 members, taking into account and quoting "natural balance", contrary to the principle of so-called "natural balance". GREVIO's gender balances account for only 10 women, absent birth activists and experts. Only two conclusions can be drawn from this, firstly or that the Council of Europe violates the provisions of its own Convention. Second or so-called. the gender balance or balance satisfied with possible polymorphic gender orientations and the roles of the members of GREVIO, which is a false conundrum on whether or not it exists in the Convention of Gender Ideology makes it permanently resolved. So in the end, I'm not being too strict. Is there anything good about the text of the convention? Of course, there is, for example, Article 80 and it is called ‘Cancellation’ and I quote in paragraph 1 ‘Any Party may at any time cancel this Convention by notification to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. Independent of Croatia as one of the goals of their political action see also the drive to be founded in true people's will after the next election, by the work of the parliamentary majority, which will do so, i.e. The convention to cancel. Therefore, we do not need ideological sectarianism, infertile social and folk polarisation and referendum exhibitionism through which marginal groups will seek their political space. We don't need a party parasite on this, we need a sovereign policy, a clear attitude and elections as the only instrument that can show real people's will and mood. Mr Plenkovic, whom I do not see here, gentlemen of the HDZ, sometimes think about it, time flies fast, and any pride, potency and understatement of any people has its own deadline and will eventually be punished. The winnings and taxes will be decided by the Croatian people, not the Brussels bureaucrats, the self-called marketing experts, maids, grandmothers, generologists, machos and selected newspaper columnists on a permanent basis with all known so-called so-called unnamed sources from the top of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78713	Thank you. The next is the Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Kresho Beljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78714	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit, I find it difficult to speak after such inspired discussions. I must first of all congratulate Mr Plenkovic, here is the sincerest heart that finally managed to bring Croatia into 2018, which managed to resist all those ultraconservative currents that would lead us deep into the past, and in me unknown past very likely. As we had the opportunity to hear from some previous speakers, a new ruling majority would likely return that pillar of shame, burn witches, or I don’t know what. I will speak today, not only as president of the HSS, as president of the Assembly Representatives Club of the HSS, but as mayor with now, for eight years and with the experience I have as a man who has been addressed by numerous women and many people who have been victims of domestic violence. What doesn't work with us is institutions. We're talking about safe houses, and even there were suggestions from colleagues and colleagues that we should increase the number of safe houses. I have a completely different view, I think safe houses are a disgrace to a society because there are women and children, or family parts to hide from abusers, that the system works as it should, then there should be no need for safe houses at all and women should not be hidden from multiple offenders, abusers whose system cannot end. Unfortunately, we are witnessing and daily reading articles from the black chronicle, and that is what needs to be done. In one way or another, and I hope and deeply believe that this Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence in the family, one, if not great, then at least a small step in making violence as little as possible, if we cannot prevent it and eradicate it to the end. I'll also talk about it, once a journalist recently wrote for me that there's Cresso Beljak who's saying what's not expected of him. So we're talking about ideological divisions, about where my party belongs, where the HSS belongs, which we're going to, how we're going to, and one of the questions that are being asked is the question of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. HSS is the first party in Croatia to stand in the protection of women, the first and the first of 100 years ago when some of the traditions that some today speak of were about women's rights and about the abuse of women almost normal, so the tradition of fighting women, the tradition of how a woman should be welcomed by a man, etc. And even the tradition of violence against children, not only of women, which is something that is desirable, after all a beating or a plague from heaven has come out our old folk traditional proverb which we have recently succeeded as a society to put an end to. It is my party who first gave political and opened political space to women, my party HSS is the one who gave the first Croatian politician, we have advocated that women get, not only the right to vote, but also the place in which they belong evenly evenly in the 20s of the last century when they were much stronger conservative currents against it than they are today, i.e. those who were more powerful, and HSS is the party that I will read to you in Article 1(1). The statute that was passed in 2009, so long before I was like that and one who was not expected to say what I was saying, when I was neither party president nor involved in making, and said this: HSS is a political party that promotes national style, peace, justice and humanity by its actions. As a homosexual and socially sensitive party, it takes care of all the socially sensitive layers of society, the preservation of national, cultural and traditional and ecological values, the freedom of religion and the right of every man to respect the rights of others to regulate his life towards his own source. It is ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, journalists, members of the HSS public and all five members of the HSS Representatives Club will vote for ratification of the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78715	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU on behalf of whom Anka's respected representative, Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78716	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today is finally on the agenda of the Council of Europe Convention, on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. I read the whole name on purpose to remind ourselves of what we're talking about. Likewise, what we need to take care of and what we need to know is next. History is a teacher of life. If our mind were right now, I certainly wouldn't have let it happen three years ago if we hadn't ratified the so-called government in which we were sitting. The Istanbul Convention. It would have gone under the radar then, we would have ratified, had, and certainly would not have gotten into a situation of this kind of debate. The fact is, now for the first time, right at the Istanbul Convention, which is what we call the debate in accordance with the new rules of procedure, so there's no replication of exposure on behalf of clubs, so here, somehow, it goes quite gently. I'm sure there's an old Rules of Procedure left, so maybe if we were, maybe the first club would be over. But let's go back to what's the topic of today's debate. The topic of today's debate is that we have the opportunity to speak in the Parliament and vote on Friday on a document that is extremely important. To what do I appreciate his importance? We appreciate its importance, among other things in the next fact, by adopting this document, we send a message, which is a message to all society, that violence against women and domestic violence is not tolerated. That it cannot be within the four walls, that it cannot be in the family and that it is the responsibility of the whole society. We are also sending a message that in this sense there should be coordination of all state services, civil society organisations, national, local, legislative and executive authorities. Let's just say we also admit domestic violence and violence against women. We in society, we say, it exists, we have, we bring, we will ratify that convention and we will fight it. There is something that we should all have in mind, which is that by our work, by our actions, by speaking from this pay phone, we have an impact and that we must leave behind the situation, the society, the circumstances, the better than we have or have found them. And that's our responsibility and that's our job. If we had ratified that convention there in 2013, in 2015, it might have come at the same time for debate in the Assembly, there would certainly not have been 50 parliamentary deputies and that would have gone away. But today we are talking about the Istanbul Convention and discussing the atmosphere of false news, the atmosphere of fear and the atmosphere of manipulating human feelings. Manipulating the feelings of women, manipulating the feelings of children, manipulating the feelings of all of us, and that's unacceptable. We absolutely have to hear, no, we didn't read it, but someone said it did. Well, it would be essential to read it. It would be convenient if we saw it, where there's a parent one, where there's a parent two, where we're talking about it? Equally, it would be interesting to talk about that fear, that suddenly men will enter the ladies' room. I didn't get a chance to see it, but I saw women go into men, because there weren't enough girls, where they kept each other's guards. That's what I had a chance to see, so when we talk about what we have in Croatia. What I'm saying from this pay phone, on behalf of the Voice Club and HSU, where there's no question about how we're going to vote, we're going to absolutely vote for ratification. So we were the ones who said, if we had to show that there are some problems in HDZ, that there are holes, then it's the Istanbul Convention. Let's put her on the agenda, see how stable the coalition is and how much trouble we have here or no problems. And we're now taking some kind of, so, from the IDS Club and the Voice Club, we've started and, of course, we've got enough signatures, my colleague, to run an interpretation about it. And it's gonna happen to us that this interpretation, I hope it doesn't need to be in the Parliament, so here, we managed to be one law before the interpretation in the agenda, and we kind of think that this little credit is tied to us. Let's see a little bit about countries that have already ratified that. Well, I don't need to talk about some countries of Scandinavia, but take a country called Malta. It's a country where abortion is banned, a country that ratified the Istanbul Convention and had no problem. But compared to the abortion, there's a problem because you know what's going on there right now? There is a lucrative type of tourism, where ships, which are anchored near Malta and where abortions are carried out. I'm one of those women who's in that group of women who's had problems with pregnancy and everything, and I'll never forget, one respected professor, when I was lying in the hospital, who said, there's nothing a woman would do to get her into a situation so she can have a baby. It was then that they were the first ones where the so-called. children from the test tube. But I'm saying, there's nothing a woman won't do not give birth to. That's what I'm saying in the context of this convention and I'm saying in the context of what the question is after all these events and after all these protests where there are young people, where there are young women, young men, who are saying, I didn't read it, but it certainly says it there, because someone told me, it's going to be very easy tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a month, to get out, about some other protests. And the question is, what kind of Croatia do we want and what kind of Croatia do we see in the future? Do we see Croatia that is progressive, that is advanced, where when you live and when you speak you will not lower your eyes and say that is the country where we have achieved some values or started to question back? Or do we want one Croatia that is dangerously sliding back and which is really going to be very simple and very soon one back country? If you were to make a declaration about what kind of Croatia we want as much as when, if you are declaring whether you are against violence against women and domestic violence, yes, full of mouths to everyone. But when you get into the essence, then you see that's not the case. Similarly, we will vote in favour of the Convention, which speaks of a progressive and progressive country and those who say we will not vote because we see all the white mice that we do not see and who are actually afraid of young people who are not leaving Croatia because of their economic threat but also because of other things and ask them what kind of Croatia you want, whether you want one advanced, progressive Croatia, the answer is right away. But it's not like that. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention and all the topics that have opened around it we have begun to question the values that I was convinced at my age that I would never be in a position to question and we do. And then you go back slowly and then you go back faster and faster. And this debate on the Istanbul Convention is also a debate on violence against women but also on the future of Croatia, a debate on the future of all of us, a debate on the messages we send to young people, a debate on those who are now buying a ticket to go live somewhere else. And that's how it's supposed to be discussed. On Friday, when we vote, we actually vote on the fact that we want Croatia in the future. We at the GLAS and HSU club don't have that dilemma and we didn't even have that dilemma, so on several occasions we said it clearly, we even said about the statement, that statement is a chamomile, that statement won't even help, but if it makes it easier for someone, if it's going to be a clear message, absolutely with a statement and without a statement, it's acceptable for us. It is acceptable for us for the simple reason that we want children who go to school today, that young people live in an advanced and progressive country, a country that will have a future. We, as one liberal party, will advocate and we want this convention to be truly voted. We do not want Croatia by example in Poland and Hungary. We don't want it to turn into a country of liberal democracy. We want one Croatia that appreciates diversity, it is considered to be different. We don't even mind people thinking differently. We have no objection to speaking differently, nor to speaking differently, nor to discussing in this assembly because when I said that the history of the teacher of life that we all think the same thing, there is no progress. We have to think differently, we have to stand up for our ideas, we have to speak them differently from simple, we have to question them. If it hadn't been for questioning, there would have been no progress. But everyone should bear their share of responsibility if he cheats, his part of responsibility for so-called. Fake news or fake news, my part of responsibility when he says I didn't read it or I didn't read it but it doesn't matter someone else told me so I believe those words and I won't use my eyes. If it hadn't been for progress, if it hadn't been for everything my predecessors had said, today in this assembly there would have been distinguished colleagues, we women wouldn't have had the opportunity to vote or be elected. Not long ago this fall was the Zagreb film festival and it was opened with a film that talks about Switzerland. I went to see that movie, and I was still thinking now it's about some women's rights, which I'm going to do now, but I love that festival, so I went to see it. And there I was, there was this canton in Switzerland that gave women the right to vote. And then a woman who advocated the right to vote went out for a pay phone and said at this point the right to vote has women in Afghanistan, have women in Yugoslavia and listed everything else. So there were some things that were normal with us, we are now only through this Convention and what is happening in public space, we are going to question things that were normal. Let's not do this, let's tell the real truth, the Istanbul Convention is a convention that talks about preventing and combating violence against women and violence in the family, it moves from the family, puts us in public space and says we are all responsible for this violence, and all that happens is the right desire to take Croatia back, the desire that Croatia should not be a secular state that writes to us in the Constitution, but that it has the influence of Claire, not the influence of the church, but the influence of Claire, because suddenly when you enter the church and when you listen to Claire is not thought of with your head but taken for granted what is said from the altar as your point of view and not as a fact. Therefore, the Istanbul Convention only speaks about whether we want advanced and progressive Croatia or whether we want Croatia going back.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78717	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Maria Puh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78718	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Honored Minister, State Secretary, Honored counterparts and colleagues. Here I have to express my special satisfaction that today in this assembly we are discussing the Istanbul Convention and I have really called on it, so this whole year actually has been before and we have insisted that it come to the debate as soon as possible, and it is a great pleasure to discuss it today. When we talk about the convention itself, this convention is actually one standard of the 21st century, a convention that determines human rights, which determines the rights to protection against violence, which determines the rights to protection against domestic violence. I haven't found any segment of the entire convention in it, I haven't found any ideology in it, and I'm actually asking you what birth ideology is. Does anyone have a definition of exactly what gender ideology means? What I know and what I saw in the convention and what exists in the convention is gender equality. And gender equality, thanks to everyone before us, has largely existed in our society for some time. And in the end, if there were no gender equality, as my colleague Mrak-Taritash had said earlier today, only colleagues would be sitting in this assembly, there would be no MPs, there would be no ministers, there would be no pilots' wives, there would be no men's cooks. So gender equality is something that exists in the Istanbul Convention, which is important, what we need to support, what we need to stick to, and that's what's actually a thread of leadership and a standard of the 21st century. When we ask ourselves why we really need this convention? So last week or before last week, a report by the Advocate General on Gender Equality, which again shows that data and statistics related to violence, especially violence against women and domestic violence, are devastating and frightening. We know and we've repeated many times, but I think it's necessary to repeat as many times as it takes, that the police intervene every 15 minutes for domestic violence. We're talking about family, we're talking about an environment that needs to be safe, full of love, full of understanding, there's no place for violence in the family. In the past two years 33 women have been killed by their partners, husbands, boys or family members, and when we look only at domestic violence, 92% of cases of domestic violence are directed towards women. Here we are talking about the historical determination that women are in some way weaker and should be particularly pointed out that women must be equal and have the right to be equal. What's particularly frightening is when you look at the Attorney General's report on gender equality, which is to adopt only 17% of the safeguards proposed by the police at the courts. So I guess there's some reason why protection measures are proposed when it comes to domestic violence, but unfortunately there's only 17% of them being adopted. Today we've heard, there's a number of counties that don't have yet safe houses, I agree that's not a solution, but it's something that can simply protect a woman when she's in trouble and her children and give her shelter when unfortunately she can't be in her family anymore. Here is my Krapina - Zagorje County, unfortunately, has no shelter. I am simply ashamed to talk to my fellow citizens when I tell them that we do not have shelter for our women in our county and that they must most often get along here in the nearest, in Zagreb, have to leave their acquaintances, their friends, have to leave their jobs, become existentially threatened, children have to separate from their friends, I am ashamed that Krapina-Zagorje County still has no shelter for women victims of violence. In this entire debate that we have witnessed over the past few months, let's say the last few months, but in fact, many lies, untrues, alternative facts, fake news, and I don't know what expression to actually use and all these facts are actually being used to manipulate the masses. The debate persisted from that real content which, in the convention, is on various ideological innuendos and ideological bogeys that actually do not exist in the convention itself. Unfortunately, in defence of not adopting the Istanbul Convention, hatred spread, intolerance and intolerance. It's not the society I want to live in and it's not the Croatia I want to live in. I want to live in Croatia which is tolerated, which is inclusive and which treats everything equally. I was planning to maybe list all the various facts that were wrong and stand now in their defense, but we have already repeated this so many times, and I hope that it really doesn't have to go over again why GREVIO is not something that is a bauk, something that doesn't exist, so GREVIO is an institution that exists to monitor the implementation of the Istanbul Convention itself, as there are many other institutions, and finally we, when we adopt the Convention on Child Protection, the UN also has a council that monitors the implementation of this convention to which we have to send facts. So, I just don't see any fear of losing the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. What I would particularly like to draw attention to, which is that it is often mentioned in the Istanbul Convention and that there is a part where it is said that certain contents and opponents of the Istanbul Convention must be placed in education. The Istanbul Convention stipulates that children will learn about issues of equality between women and men, of mutual respect, of non-violent resolution of conflicts in personal relations, of the right to personal integration tailored to student development. What's wrong with that? Why should students not learn about nonviolent conflict resolution? After all, last year we had one study that showed that 44% of young people think that if a girl did something that the boy didn't want, that he had the right to hit her. That's what girls and boys think. Well, of course we need to put in education to learn about tolerance, learn about non-violence and learn about mutual respect and respect. Recently, I found a video on the Internet where small children, about 6, 7 years old, received one assignment, a simple task of collecting balls and putting them in glasses, and were divided into couples, boys and girls, and each couple had to collect it. They all worked equally together, collected these balls, put in a glass, followed by a reward. The interrogators who conducted this interrogation gave the girl a glass of half a candy and the boy got a full glass of candy. Afterwards, these children asked whether it was okay for them to receive these candy or rewards for the work done, and now both girls and boys looked at themselves first, looked at these glasses confusedly, looked at the interrogator and the children great but it was wrong, so we both tried equally to do what we were supposed to do. Why did the girl get less candy and the boy get more? The boys themselves shared their candy with the girls. So the children think they should be equal and the children know that they should be equal. Before society starts imposing certain patterns and social stereotypes. We have to stay and we have to work the way children see it, that we have to be equal and that we have to fight for equality. I'm really glad we've welcomed today, and I'm glad there's a broad consensus, and I hope that in this way we're going to work and in making a lot of other laws because I think that consensus is something that we definitely lack in this society and what we need and we'd end up adopting this convention is not my victory, it's not the victory of the CNS, it's not the victory of the opposition, it's not the victory of the government. The adoption of the convention is the victory of every woman who suffers violence and the adoption of the convention is the victory of civilised society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78719	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to individual debates, we've got 35 reported so far, so let's get on with it. First enlisted by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78720	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister with the assistants. So here we are discussing the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, and I think the whole story about the Convention went wrong, I told the Prime Minister in the Replica, I also earned a warning, but I said in good faith what Prime Minister Plenkovic was when he came to the head of the Government was a man who advocated dialogue, which does not humiliate his party or party partners, but well, the fact is that it has changed. And that's what we can tell from the Istanbul Convention, he's been running towards everyone, all of his insinuators, with a huge amount of disrespect. To all who did not agree with certain things in this document that I hold in my hand and I read it on many occasions, he acted a little arrogantly and even said that these people did not understand the convention, that they could not read these things, within a convention that they wrote, but the fact that the prime minister showed his haughtiness and was clearly not allowed to vote at least on their conscience. That's not good. Yet certain things in which people disagree should still be allowed to vote on their conscience because the fact that this document does not have the right to be given to the amendment is neither accepted nor accepted. So he showed that part of totalitarian traits. In this way we see lately that a debate has opened with a part of the people, in which there are no longer any arguments but only insults. Based on how the prime minister started with his statement that others do not understand what he understands, we see that these people are declaring themselves if they question the ambiguities of the backward, screwed up, fascists but it is not a contribution to democracy, we need to discuss this subject, and those who disagree in the political arena and also those outside the political arena, I see that there are representatives of the associations here and here I welcome them. So here it is important to talk in democratic dialogue in the way that Andrej Plenkovic is perceived by the people. And I'm sorry he wasn't here, but he was only in progress, which was short. This was caused by how I said, divisions and conflicts, and then the spirit of the bottle went away and of course now Andrej Plenkovic does not know how to bring that spirit back from the bottle, I expect that representatives, colleagues and people will realize that in certain things MPs elected by the people have the right to vote by conscience and it does not have to mean those who do not accept a certain definition within this in any way, that they are for violence against women because we are the state that has the possibility of legislation, which can best pass all the laws. and sanctions to be prescribed, however, the law is in the Republic of Croatia, and a respected minister is not implementing in the matter of violence, so I can tell you one example. For example, when we know the problem of addiction that one of the greater causes of domestic violence is against women and families. The fact is that we have judgments when an alcoholic makes violence against a woman in his family, and that is a huge problem in our society, especially now that we are talking about this because of economic and social situations, the problem in the Republic of Croatia is even increased. Well, we have sanctions, for example. that the clubs of the treated alcoholics oversee those who committed the crime. This, however, means that the state and local self-government have no obligation to pay for this association that must have psychiatrists, psychologists, and all it takes to monitor whether they behave accordingly, that they no longer use alcohol, we simply don't have enough worry so that these concerns about law enforcement. So who's going to be for violence? So I come from the city of Sinj where she's headed for the town of women, I'm proud of it. where most of the headmasters and key men are women, and I think that's good, that all the women in the Parliament, than everyone is calling for women, all of them SDP and HDZ, have passed that law and they haven't fulfilled the quota to these women. The Croatian state must be sovereign, it does not just have to listen to Brussels dictatorships and we must not allow us to turn Croatian politics into silences, that they obey only orders. Personally, I believe that Croatia has all the elements to regulate its laws and that the role played by the largest bodies is primarily the prime minister and that it is worthy and up to it and that the laws are being implemented. He's got all the instruments. He's got the police, he's got the ministries, he's got the laws, he's got the Parliament, and no one's gonna be for violence against women. In person today, he opened a theme of workers of the blue Dalmatian woman, for which I was personally detained and tried when they did not receive their salaries, did not have any rights for marenda, and today for 20 years they did not exercise any rights. These are women's problems, it's a cry to the sky that have not exercised their rights, which have been slaves to entrepreneurs. Of course, he's an asshole, a son of a bitch who beats his wife, another woman, and that's what we need to speak out loud and publicly, much sharper than he was prime minister. If someone thinks we should bring this here, that they'll save women, and it'll be carried out just like the law so far, it's a lie. I will not enter Article 3a here) nor Article 28 that my former colleagues mentioned before me on behalf of the clubs, I do not want to get into these problems right now. Croatia is a sovereign state. And those who are against this document don't necessarily mean that because of certain things they can't change that they're for violence against women. Well, maybe it's even different. I don't know how many of you will raise the hand that was brought in for women, workers and others to protect their rights. I can personally say that I am, but the directives, the conventions that we bring here every day and Croatia does not respect to get a bounceboard and to become President of the Council of Europe tomorrow or I don't know which part in Brussels, I don't think it's good. Mostly humiliate people who have reasons for their own nature, whether it's secular, ideological, it doesn't matter at all. If they have objections, they must not be belittled. We must not behave Pharaohically. This is a democratic system, people have chosen people and those who have objections to these conventions and we have to listen to the voice of the profession on the one hand and on the other. However, to say who does not support this convention that it is not a man, it speaks most of itself, all those who say there is no human in those who do not support this Convention, because of the disagreement with a certain one if it is considered a representative, thinks that it is a conflict with his worldview and force people to call them substitute agents yes, we will freeze the mandate or say you are losing some sovereignty as a colleague of the Bacic Club at his club, you lose some sovereignty if you are a parliamentary representative on the side, not if it is some things, people have to vote as they think and how people think they feel. I don't see that any problem, I think it's the biggest demotious oscillator, criteria, or whatever they say down in Dalmatia, in my Burn, Arshin. We must all have the same arches. And those who are in favor, and those who oppose. And not with a tall, underestimating, threatening to finger me here for telling him that it's not good that this is the way the people are divided, what the people share, and what is in the public so now is shared. And I personally believe that the Croatian state can, through Parliament, through its institutions, ministries, police, anyone who has the authority to arrange this state and protect women and send a message to those who beat women, who commit violence to be bastards. We don't need to be given, he didn't say Prime Minister, not a billion, how many millions are given for... which will control this, whether we could invest there perhaps for 2/3 of Croatia where there are no more women in the villages, have living conditions normal, that they can live normally so that in these areas they have no internet at all or can follow what we are talking about today and now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a clear attitude I personally... My position and what I said, I will not support this convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78721	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78722	Kola Bulj, when Prime Minister Plenkovic speaks, then speaks to the arguments, when it is for something for or for something against. In your debate, you did not say a word or an argument why you were against it because we concluded it only at the end when you said a sentence as to how you feel about this convention. In addition, if you are already against it, you cannot determine because you are not part of our coalition so you cannot determine how our party, my party, will vote, whether it will be by conscience or by our rules and regulations that we have made as a party. Therefore, what you need are arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78723	Thank you. A fellow Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78724	Thank you very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much. If I could just say why not. I do not think that Croatia needs anything over the bodies that we will pay above Parliament. Since we joined the EU, we've only been making directives and becoming essentially, we actually need the Protectorate here to declare someone, we can shut down Parliament and we don't need it. So we have one body that we will pay above Parliament. And personally, since we've been in the EU, we've been acting court and servantly, and I don't think you can tell me you won't decide. I'm just saying my position is that the nation is divided, never more than after the war as it is now around this convention. And that is the credit of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who humiliates all those who have different attitudes. My position is clear, legally edit Croatian laws and protect women maximum and all those who commit crime and beat women, these are bastards, I repeat again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78725	Thank you very much. The next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78726	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no friend of mine in the conference room right now. I would like to go back to him because I deeply disagree with his performance when it is on behalf of the club, I will not say militant but these hoofs, with a colossal speech, spoke to a part of Croatian citizens who opposed the ratification of the Istanbul Convention calling themselves almost dangerous militant crusaders. [[/Intruder Reiner: My colleagues and colleagues, please, let's calm down, let's not talk from the bench that a respected representative can say what he thinks. Here you go.]] I think it is not good especially when it comes from the mouth of the club president of the strongest opposition party and I am even more firm, more confident in the position that HDZ as a right-wing party is necessary, necessary, devoid of all extremisms and radicalisms in Croatian society as a guarantee of stability of politics and social relations in Croatia. So in this context, I am also observing the HDZ's contribution to such a situation in Croatian society, ratification to simplify the co-loquial termed Convention, the Istanbul Convention. I think that no one in this assembly is disputed that the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family is brought first in order to protect women from violence and to protect against domestic violence. I believe it's all of us and those who won't support the convention, not two. The arguments cited by a part of our colleagues will not support the Istanbul Convention is that, on the one hand, Croatian national legislation and it seems to me that my colleague Bulj, that Croatian national legislation has enough legal instruments to protect women from violence and protect families from violence and that, on the other hand, it introduces gender ideology or birth theory or I don't know how we will call this aspect to which we should not ratify this Convention in Croatia. First on this first part. I think the Prime Minister in his opening speech, stating the data on the number of crimes committed by women in the past seven years, and especially over the past two years, has been saying enough about being a society and we as advocates who we and law-makers have not done everything to prevent such dramatic figures that speak of women who are victims of violence. I cannot argue, I am not an expert in this, but by reading what Mrs Dubravka Simunovic, who was the Vice-President of the Council of Europe and a participant in the writing of the convention, says that this is currently the world's most comprehensive document that extends the legislative framework, prescribes control and control of its implementation in the world. And that if we really want to protect women in Croatia with a real comprehensive document that it is then the Istanbul Convention. So I'd add that, remembering those sayings if you saved one life, you saved the whole world. If this convention contributes to saving a woman's life in Croatia, then we have saved what the world says. Therefore, as regards this part of the argument that Croatia does not need this convention because we have enough laws, enough legal instruments and tools to protect women in Croatia and families from violence and abusers, I think that these data dramatically, therefore, suggest that we need to do much more, much more to protect both women and families in Croatia. Another thing that is said about, another aspect, another argument that speaks about the introduction of either gender ideology or gender theory or I don't know what I'm not going to say again, but what the key document of the Council of Europe says is whether the Istanbul Convention introduces a third sex and the obligation to allow equal marriages, adoption of children of same sex couples etc., etc. What this key document is saying, which, as we heard from the Prime Minister in the day of the public, is precisely to deny those who speak about how the aim of this Convention is to introduce, no matter what it means, gender ideology or if it is easier to say the attribute of this gender ideology in the Republic, that it is not true. It is on this trail that we, primarily in HDZ, would show our position when it comes to these attributes of gender ideology, try, if I may say so, to write an interpretative statement claiming that the Istanbul Convention does not promote such attributes of gender ideology. And it's not, and that interpretative statement didn't come out just like that. HDZ is too serious and large a party to ask for an integral part of this Act to be an interpretative statement. When I'm talking about an interpretative statement, then I'm going to say that it's not some kind of letter that can be lost somewhere when it's in the People's Newspaper or it won't be at the Law when the law is passed. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that the interpretative statement is an integral part of the Law, in fact. 4th of this Act and everything that is written in all Croatian laws and which obliges the Croatian judiciary, Croatian central state bodies, units of local self-government, regional self-government, everything that obliges the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in any law, whether in criminal law, whether in the Law on State Mothers, the Law on Discrimination and which obliges the Croatian judiciary, the conduct of these documents, by those laws, these same state bodies, and the same state institutions will bind what it says in that interpretational statement, i.e., better said in Article. 4th of these statements. I must say, which I am not a lawyer strangely and almost incomprehensible that my colleagues who are not also lawyers have made it clear that this statement does not have any legal power, that it is an irrelevant document, that this document does not serve anything, and then I hear from the professor of international law in Zagreb, Dr. Nine Vaic, who was in two terms and the judge of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, said that this interpretative statement is in fact an art. 4 Welcome, that she is well-ranked, that she is a legally valid document, that she commits and that we as a government and as a state, or as a state we have the right to manifest ourselves by our... means in the implementation of the Istanbul Convention itself, to call it that, even though it is so, I say, I don't like to call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'll end up with that. Not only has Croatian legislation not responded in quality to what is happening in the Republic of Croatia at this time, and this is a large number of women who are victims of domestic violence and violence, but we need to do much more to contribute to the protection of women in the Republic of Croatia, when it is obvious that as a society, we still need time to understand the importance of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78727	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. The first is the respected representative of Arsen Bauk who heard, even if he wasn't sitting here, as you were saying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78728	Comrade Bačić, my speech wasn't insolent or can be given to him by any such kind or such connotation. He was warning of something that you, within the HDZ, feel that they are working for you and it is time for you to take it a little more seriously and admit it. Also, what I said isn't new. In fact, it is about an authorial text that has been public for at least 2-3 weeks from journalist Novi List Jasmin Klaric, whom I asked if I could use his text and his thesis. This is already answered by Mr. Miklenic, and in fact, I reject that it is a Hague text, it is a matter of warning about something that has been going on for several years, and what he has assisted during the Karamark HDZ which released the spirit from the bottle and ultimately these organisers of the meeting in Split said that this is no longer a rally against Istanbul, but a rally against the government. So, you take care of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78729	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Bauk, regardless of whether it is the text of journalist Klaric from the New List or someone else's text, you read the text as president of the Club and on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club and identified it. I have said my position, and it is that these days I have received many emails, insults from many unknown, anonymous and famous people to me, but to me, I must tell you, as a representative who I am for this Convention, I have disturbed your approach much more than theirs because you are the official of this House, a state official, you are the president of the club of the strongest opposition parties and your word, your speech is, let alone more influential in society than that a hundred messages come to my inbox that offend me or in any other way belittle me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78731	The next replica is the respected representative Mark Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78732	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor. It is true that Croatian legislation and Croatian laws cannot deal with violence for the simple reason that violence has been going on for centuries and it is an international, international and world problem. And we, by ratifying this document, agree to be on the side of this international front that fights violence against women, and in this act we are legitimateized and legitimateized as human beings. The fundamental mark of man is that he has a mind and sets goals for himself. Animals don't do that, and not all people who are driven by a kind of instinct when they belong to tradition, when tradition inspires their instinct to be against something. A man who sets goals for himself can act on the basis of conscience and I am convinced that the man who sets his goals in this document will not see what he does not have, and that is indeed gender ideology, but will see what he has in society, which is violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78733	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that setting the goals set by her and this convention itself will not contribute to the protection of women from domestic violence or violence, it is not disputed. That's what you and I agree on. But this Convention gives, in its other articles and regulations, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to implement this Convention with a number of concrete solutions from the Convention itself, the means to act in the protection of women from violence and, in that sense, I welcome the adoption of the Convention, and as I believe, you agree how much I understand from your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78735	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78736	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bacic, I'd like to ask you a question I asked the prime minister, but I've been denied the answer, and that's what this gender ideology is? I hear so much about this fascinating birth ideology, but I haven't heard what it is yet? Maybe that's what I was talking about, that's what I was discussing, that's what when I asked the Prime Minister. On the other hand, I also didn't take my fellow Bauka's speech as a Hula, and I also saw it as a warning speech. Dear colleague, on the other hand, there are also very inspiring and reasoned debates, so one such reaction says: the shameless lies of Satan’s Jewish representative Arsen Bauk about some Babaque convention. That's really the level to be discussed in this society. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78737	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78738	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I am not this last part of my colleague Hajdukovic, I apologize, I heard, who insulted my colleague Bauk? I certainly never, nor did I, said I didn't agree with his step and nothing else. As far as gender ideology is concerned, I agree with you, someone's talking about gender ideology, someone's talking about birth theory, as I understand from these few months of public discussion about this convention under the attributes of gender ideology is about introducing a third sex, changing the definition of marriage, adopting children of the same sex couples. About as far as I can see, this was what the Croatian public was concerned about, and what we with that interpretative statement refused, especially in the second paragraph that it does not imply the obligation to introduce gender ideology, again I say these attributes of gender ideology in the Croatian legal and educational system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78739	Thank you. The following replicas are respected representatives of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78740	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bacic, this document by the Council of Europe, is the fact that it is not exactly written. That's why, as far as I'm aware, only the Council of Europe has given the so-called "The World of Europe" for the first time. Interpretative statement. The same statement was made by the Croatian Government, precisely to remove the fear of the great work of Croatian citizens, from having to introduce some kind of an anthropological model of the family or introduce some anti-natural order after the adoption of this document, and we know that the family is a fundamental unit of society. I have not yet heard the answer to the question of where Croatia's obligation to introduce in its laws what it has introduced, for example. Sweden, Canada or any other state, where does it say Croatia has to, if not? And to be more absurd, this interpretative statement actually has one legal international weight, and it's not true that it has no value, that this is worthless paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78741	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Irena, I agree with you, therefore, that nowhere in this Convention, however written, and it is written as a compromise that has been reached between the Member States of the Council of Europe, and yet 47 of them, so I have not found the elements that would suggest that this is where I think, is being promoted by some of the attributes of gender ideology. By the way... This Convention on gender-founded violence implies a distinction between male and female. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it implies that there must be one side of this convention, both men and women, and it doesn't promote that third sex, neither transgenderity nor transsexuality, it doesn't exist in this convention, and that's what we've been through the party, through the club on several occasions, and I've never been convinced of it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78743	Thank you. The next replica of respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78744	Dear colleague Bacic, legitimately that you have your right in this convention, but why do I somehow feel like you don't actually believe everything you're saying? So I would advise you both and everyone else who here now, as if they're convincing themselves of something that they actually know isn't and they don't believe in, so maybe it's better if you don't try to interpret what you can't interpret anymore. We all know how to read, we're all written, we're all more, someone less of course, but we all know that Mr. Bacic doesn't have any legal justification. That it's one worthless piece of paper and no matter how many times you repeat it after me that it's a paper that makes sense, everyone knows because they're all written, more or less, that it's not worth a piss bomb. So my well-intentioned advice to all those who are formally democracies might be better off not replicating anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78745	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78746	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, I had no intention of answering your line because you, in fact, as far as I see here in this assembly today, are the only ones who have been trying to talk to me and to us who have been telling us about this document so far that we do not know but that you know what it says there. You will now have a chance in a few minutes when you speak individually to explain to us who do not know what you know about this convention, and then you will step in and not convince others that they do not know what they are saying. I would ask you not to speak for me, speak for yourself, it's your right but don't tell those who do, and you know for yourself how many advocates have been in the debate so far either on behalf of the club, you're the only one or almost the only one who convinces us that we don't know and you know what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78747	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, you have said that there is much in our legislation in this Convention, that is correct. And you said there's something in the convention that's still not in our legislation. And that's right. But what seems even more important to me is the fact that we should all be aware of who we are sitting in this hall and those outside this hall. And that is regardless of whether we build our legislation with this Convention or reverse it with efforts as some people would like by refusing this Convention it will apply to us as it will apply to all countries that do not ratify it with one difference. And that's what I'd like to say to those who are scaring us with a body that should be a body above our sovereignty of the people, which is if we don't ratify it in our name, they'll decide others and if we ratify we'll be involved in ourselves and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78749	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I haven't said a lot of what I've prepared here in 10 minutes, but one of my thoughts was to expose that GREVIO. If the Republic of Croatia has left part of sovereignty to an international body then Grevio is for that little baby. As a member of the Council of Europe, the Republic of Croatia is a party and has ratified the European Convention on Human Rights on the basis of which the Conventions are based by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. This court is also in charge of this Chamber, it is also responsible for the Croatian judiciary, it is in charge of the Croatian Constitutional Court and we have accepted it, the competence of the European Court of Human Rights, and we are aware that this enables our citizens to act in accordance with the legislation applicable to the work of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78751	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to begin my debate with a rhetorical question, who actually read from you colleagues and colleagues this document? Who has read the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence. According to the arguments, most of the arguments I've heard here, I would dare say that this number is very, very modest. It's unfortunate for colleagues and colleagues to discuss this at all. That's where I agree with my colleague, Dark-Taritash. This was supposed to be a point that we would adopt without debate, unanimously, in keeping with the standards of human rights already achieved, gender equality that we are constantly trying to suppress and try to be an advanced and progressive country. And as my colleague Mrak-Taritash said, we would not discuss any colleagues or colleagues at all, but we would have brought this convention long ago and ended this whole gungull and story. The opponents and critics of this Convention, as far as I've listened to them, are all declared against violence, violence against women, domestic violence, but it's unfortunate that there is one. They scare the public with alternative facts that I would openly call lies, delusions, fake news, whatever you want to say. They scare the public with bearded women, men in women's toilets, paedophiles, rapes, etc., etc. My colleagues and colleagues would ask if the sign at the entrance to the men's or women's sex stopped one rapist, unfortunately it didn't. And you know what will stop him? He will be prevented from education, prevented from being raised in the family, in schools, prevented by legislation, prevented from public awareness that such behaviour is not acceptable, not acceptable. I would like dear friends, especially you who spoke with great passion against this convention to speak with the same grumble about other burning problems of the Republic of Croatia. To talk about that there are hungry people in Croatia, to talk about that many women and men do not have a job, that many leave Croatia, that many have no perspective, that many are blocked, that you talk about these problems, rather than just these imaginary problems with which you entertain the Croatian public. Why don't you talk about Agror who's still a problem? This deal is not a settlement but we'll talk about it tomorrow, but we colleagues and colleagues are talking about something that should have been a standard long ago, which is the rights of our colleagues and the protection they deserve in the family and outside of it. It's an interpretative statement, one completely unnecessary document. It's completely unnecessary. I'll remind you of some facts, colleagues and colleagues. The international agreements we ratify in this House are above the law but are not above the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia recognises gender equality and gender diversity. My colleagues and colleagues, we have sworn to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We swore to the Constitution, human rights, my colleague. We have sworn to the Constitution, and we must protect it. I don't see how else we're gonna protect him, but we're protecting human rights, and I'd rather get that article out of this law because it's completely unnecessary to me. I have heard from many critics of this convention the problem of money, how much money we will spend on guarding, preventing domestic violence, on safe houses, etc. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you a rhetorical question again. How many safe houses have you been in, how many have you visited, and how many of your protégés and protégés have you spoken to? I visited them, I talked to them, I heard their stories. And so I ask you, especially those who call on Christianity, how much does a woman's life cost? How much does a child's life cost in Croatia? Like some colleagues who used to say what a kilo of brain costs in Croatia. Well, we may be ashamed to see such things exclusively through money. My colleague Bačić quoted Talmud and I will quote him, "He who saves one life saved the whole world." If this convention helps one family, it helped all of Croatia but it will help more. I'm sure of it. We've heard a lot about gender ideology, and here's a colleague of Bacic's told me a few things about gender ideology, and that's all the news to me that would be said. The definition of marriage, so we have a definition of marriage in the Constitution, I don't think it's going to change eventually. Transgenders are also mentioned here, so transgenders exist in Croatia. Individuals are allowed to change gender in the Republic of Croatia. I fight and advocate the rights of those, human rights, the fundamental human rights of decent life, the right to happiness and legal acceptance in the Republic, and we, by our legislation, rules stemming from the law, etc., dear colleagues and colleagues, have. And I'll repeat again, is gender ideology a fight against domestic violence, is gender ideology a struggle for women's right to decide on their own body? Is gender ideology a struggle for equality between men and women, is gender ideology a takeover for equal pay, for equal work? If it is, then I'm a gender ideologist, whatever that means. I spoke in this Visko home if I was wrong in 2014 about the Croatia I dream of, so I would like to do it again even though it is a little bit different in a different context. The Croatia I want and the Croatia I dream of is Croatia where there is no domestic violence, the Croatia I dream of is Croatia in which bullies cannot behave in public responsibilities. They can't be public officials, they can't be mayors... The pressure of the public forces him to step down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatia I dream of is Croatia in which everyone feels safe, is Croatia in which everyone feels welcome, in which everyone feels accepted. As a person, as an individual, as a man or a woman. My colleagues and colleagues, voting for this convention, I think we are voting for a step closer to that Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78753	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78754	Dear colleague, since you asked the question of how many safe houses we were in, I was only unfortunately in one safe house, I wasn't anymore, I had the opportunity to talk to these women and I have to say that you are actually there and consistent faces. So you've always been on the same track, you've been to Istanbul before, you're for Istanbul and now, just a little bit agree with your party president who once admitted to having birth theories or gender ideology in the convention itself, and that he doesn't really have any problem with that. Only one little reconciliation would be good within your party whether or not there is. But I have to say, this is both funny and more important. Well, at least you had a thousand and one chance, so you were in power on two occasions, for eight years you managed our country nicely, so you had the opportunity to put all these more important topics in focus and correct. And now that one topic is focused, you put, you say there are more important topics. I think you've had your chance to talk about more important topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78755	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78756	My colleague Zekanovic, math may not be my strong suit, but for 25 years Croatia, 8 versus the rest, I wonder who had more time to solve these problems and who was more invited and under whom privatisation took place and under whom such an economy was created, quasi-economics, a partner economy like we now have. But let's not talk about it now. I'm glad you have so many observations about our party, which party are you from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78757	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Alexic's, here's to your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78758	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Hajduković, you are right, since the convention is about the bogeyman, the storks are about the bogeyman, the transgenders are about to be talked about for a month, two more months, and those people who are so afraid of the bogeyman don't have any problem with the fact that the banks are taking Croatian citizens to illegal interest rates, they have no problem with not respecting the judicial verdict in the collective court process, they have not raised their hand for my law which would repay money to people for their overpaid interest. They didn't support a law that would regulate interest margins, no. They are the problem of the grandma horns, they are dealing with abstractions, and they are making problems that are here in Croatian society they do not see and they do not want to see and do not want to deal with these problems. They're hypocrites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78759	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78760	I couldn't agree more with my colleague, Alexic. I think you've noticed that well. And I said, I'd like to have with that kind of rage they're speaking against this convention talk about burning problems in the Republic of Croatia. This is not the main problem of our society, don't get me wrong, but it would be good if it were. We don't have a fixed banking system, we don't have a stable economy, we all work and we discuss nuances, but that's not the case. And I think that the basic civilizational reach to protect those who are more vulnerable in the family is the most common and the statistics are that of women and children. I think it's just one act of humanity and humanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78761	Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78762	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. In your discussion, you mentioned that the interpretative statement was worthless. And our domestic experts of international law, and from around the world, experts clearly agree in one thing, which is that even though there is some kind of dispute about this convention that an interpretative statement can't be ignored, it's very important. And this statement has a legal effect, it would be good if we all knew that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78763	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78764	Thank you very much. So, pal, I didn't say it was worthless. I said it was unnecessary. It's unnecessary because it can confuse the implementation of the convention, because I don't actually see any motive to build it into the law except for the fig leaf for the right, extremists who don't accept except some attempt at compromise by the government. In my view, this compromise is not necessary here at all because I told you, we swore to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution recognises and recognises sexual equality, recognises human rights. I think the adoption of this Convention is only a step towards strengthening respect for human rights and strengthening the mechanisms we already have to prevent domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78765	We are going to the next individual debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78766	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that today we are discussing this document aimed at preventing violence against women in our society and that by adopting this document we will enter the number of those countries that ratified this Convention because it is a civilization step for Croatia and I think it is a good thing that we finally came to that phase and that we will adopt this Convention in this House. I support this convention with no statements, without restrictions because it is something that is good for Croatia, good for our society, and most of all for those women who today are exposed to domestic violence. I am truly sorry that ultra conservative associations have used this document to promote ultra conservative attitudes that I believe have no place in our society or have room in our society because if we consider Croatia a progressive and social state, which takes care of fundamental human rights, then these backdrop attitudes that are promoted these days have no place in Croatian society. But no matter how many discussions have gone in the wrong direction in recent months, and no matter how many other topics were put into the first plan, it is good that we are discussing this convention today and I hope that on Friday we will ratify it with a two-thirds majority, if colleagues from the HDZ are consistent with themselves. Mr. Bukarica is turning his head, but I hope his HDZ colleagues realize that this is a civilization step and that they have to show that HDZ may also have another face than we used to. Over 15,000 abused women a year, the increase in domestic violence obliges us to adopt this convention, but not only that, it obliges us to strongly oppose all the retrograde currents we see today in our society. On Saturday, there is a meeting in Split, the Split Riva is happening again, but I hope that this time it will not work as it was about ten years ago because Croatia is not what it was anymore, and Croatian society will know how to oppose such backdrop ideas that can no longer intimidate citizens with those concepts that are here these days, which these associations that believe offer certain false concepts, speak of concepts that they themselves do not know and cannot explain what these concepts mean. By adopting this convention, Croatia will not solve all the problems that are in this area, the area of violence against women and we do not need to expect miracles. There will be no miracle with this convention, but in any case, the convention will create assumptions that we have a better and better quality system, an institutional system that will protect women from domestic violence. Every woman's life is precious and the Istanbul Convention is a convention that will allow Croatia to no longer be or be less domestic violence than it has ever been. However, from this process that preceded the debate and the adoption of this Convention, we can clearly conclude that in the lack of quality issues this government wanted and imposed such a debate in the public because citizens are entertained by issues which are currently not seen by citizens. We are not talking about the issues of emigration, youth departure, we are not talking about the European Commission and its views, we are not talking about an increase in work for a certain time, we are not talking about the economic situation in the country, and we are talking about these issues and it must be said that the Government has not come to the point when it will set up topics that are important to the Republic of Croatia and the topics that are important to citizens in the Republic of Croatia. I wonder when we will grow up as a society and stop putting on the agenda such a topic because what is the primary task in this Assembly is to ensure free and worthy life for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. However, although we are adopting this document today, it seems to me that we are coming, because Mr. Zekanovic is not likely to stop at this alone, that we will have additional ideological discussions that will be a test of what society we are and what this society can do, how this society can provide citizens in the Republic of Croatia. An open society of high democratic principles that accepts diversity, fight violence of every kind, or we want a society that is deprived of any openness, isolated from the world in which it lives, surrounded by various dogmatics, and that is the question that will be raised before us in the next year or shorter. What kind of company do we want? I want that first society, an open society that respects differences, a society that appreciates its citizens, not a society that imposes frameworks and rules on its citizens. We'll discuss the convention and adopt it, but we're about to have a battle over the Family Law, we're about to have a battle over the Law of Abruption, about the right of a woman to decide what will also mark the debate in this House. But one should not forget those other topics, and those topics that are important to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore call on all progressive parties in the Croatian Parliament and society to gather together and prevent any attempt to reduce the rights achieved. We don't expect much from the government, unfortunately. From the government in which the Minister of Family Violence justifies that this is the case in marriage, in which the Minister of Health asks the Catholic Church to write the Law on Abdition, in this respect we cannot expect any progress, but I expect progress from free, free-minded people in the Republic of Croatia, from free-minded people here in the Parliament. I therefore call on colleagues from the MOST to step away from the laps of the conservative part of the Catholic Church and do a good work and support the Istanbul Convention. My colleagues and colleagues from MOST, the justification that you will not in this way protect HDZ does not stand up to you. You've already done it twice when you went to the coalition with them. Correct it by voting for the Istanbul Convention. I call on my colleagues from the Living Wall, who are not here today, but they will probably hear this, who have today deliberately avoided this debate, to support the Convention and show that they care about open and democratic society. Friends of the Living Wall, if you can hear me, and I hope you can hear me, show that you care about the protection of domestic violence and violence against women and support this Convention. One battle has been won, but there are still battles ahead of us and I expect that this Convention, I repeat, although there have been certain skeptics, will be adopted by the 2/3 majority and I hope it will be a message to all those conservative forces in Croatian society that they do not have a majority and that they cannot create Poland or Hungary from the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78767	Let's go to the replicas. We have seven replicas. He is the first in line to be a respected colleague, Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78768	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Mrsic, first of all, I will correct you in several allegations. You said Saturday's meeting in Split. It's not a Saturday event. It's a meeting tomorrow in Split. However, when I couldn't resist to report back to you because of your expression, because of the insult of the Croatian people, because of the calling, because of the classification, about stories, ultra-conservative forces, about backward attitudes, about therefore options that no longer exist in Croatian society. I know Communism has stopped, that you've gone out, but obviously Communism hasn't come out of you yet. So, other than dictionaries, free-minded and the like. It's all about the spirit of totalitarianism. This way to crash into the Catholic Church, people who think differently, I think it's completely inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78769	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Mara, excuse me. Dear Mrsic, here's your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78770	I can't answer a nice communist speech like this. It is a speech in the best manner of the secretary of the party that speaks of a member who has a different opinion than the party had. Mr. Scoric, that's your real speech, that's what it is. Here, I'm sorry, I got my dates mixed up, but it's very clear. What you want to show on the waterfront is that most of the Croatian people are against the Istanbul Convention and that you will scare us here in the Parliament to confirm it. No, you won't. And there will be no majority of Croatian people on the coast in Split because the Croatian people want Croatian society to be free and that everyone has the right to express their views and opinions. You will no longer be able to sell that reverse ideology in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78771	Let's move on, dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78772	Thank you very much. In your debate, you have properly touched on certain topics that have pushed the Istanbul Convention at the heart of the debate in a country where the problem is as much as you want and unfortunately it turns out that this has drawn the greatest interest and that the most debate is being discussed. It is not debated that hundreds of thousands of people leave Croatia annually, no discussion is being held about the events in Agrokor, it is not debated that Prime Minister Plenkovic decided a year and a half ago that we will buy INA that nothing has been done, there is no debate about the mass of things that are important and this has occupied the Croatian public, in fact what should be clear and acceptable to all of them and what will ultimately be voted in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78773	A fellow Mrssic, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78774	Thank you very much. Dear Maras, if you had noticed exactly what we are talking about today and what it says in the Istanbul Convention should be one democratic reach of Croatian society and should not be discussed at all but should discuss other problems that are very important for Croatian society and I have tried to point out that the debate on the Istanbul Convention is a mask that covers all other problems that arise in Croatian society. What we are discussing today should mean in itself that we have in Croatia and there should be no events of the people or anything because this is a civilizational achievement of Europe and we are civilised to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78775	The third replica of the esteemed fellow Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78776	Thank you, Mr. President. You've pointed to several areas where we as a state no longer have power, not a controlled labour market in the right way, others dictate to us. We don't control interest in our country, others dictate to us. Did we dictate bank privatisation? Did those who raise their voice against the Istanbul Convention vote today raise their voice against it? No, they're not. Do they raise their voice against the way pensions are paid and pensioners are taken? They're not picking up. Are they raising their voice against those who lower the cost of working in our country? They're not picking up. And I'd like to raise our voice against it. So this isn't the only topic where we prove that we can have something called national sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78777	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78778	Dear fellow Pupovac, I fully agree with you, we should not have discussed this at all this long in the Parliament, this should have been done by a certain automation, we should have discussed this long ago and those topics that are important for Croatian citizens are put under the rug and we do not discuss them. And I hope that there will come a time when we will also be able to discuss in the Assembly the topics that are important for Croatian citizens. The Istanbul Convention is a civilizational reach and there is no need to raise such tensions because there is nothing in it that this society and this Croatia does not deserve. What's obvious is that they're... associations felt this as a field where they could raise their visibility and in some way try to reverse the course of Croatian society towards modern civilization society which is, which is all those in Croatia [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78779	The fourth replica of a esteemed colleague, Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78780	Mr. Mrsic, you mentioned the Split coast, I'd like to remind you that there were two Split waterfronts, one in February 2001 when there was a protest over the arrest of General Norco and over 100,000 people gathered. The second Split Riviera has been announced since December 2005, when it was announced as a protest over the arrest of General Gotovina but thanks to the intervention of the Split-Makar Archbishop, Mr. Marin Barisic, who came to Prime Minister Sanader and influenced the organisers, and the rally did not turn into a rally against the government of the Republic of Croatia, but as a gathering of support for General Gotovina and there were much, much less about 40 to 50 thousand gathered. So that's where we have the direct involvement of the church in political gatherings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78781	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78782	I expect to discuss issues which are issues and women on the labour market, their unemployment, their labour market inequality, their economic dependence. So these are the problems we need to talk about. And I'd like to talk about these issues tomorrow, about those issues that are important to all those citizens in Croatia who today have a job that is not permanent, most of them are women, about women who work for a certain time, about all those problems that bother women, about having fewer pensions because they care about family members and these are the problems that need to be discussed. The Istanbul Convention is not a convention on which we should spend so much time because it is a civilizational step and that is what this Parliament should become clear about. I hope she'll be ratified with the great majority. Two-thirds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78783	Dear colleague Lukacic, you're next in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78784	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs., it is good that you raise your hand for this convention with an interpretative statement. This convention wouldn't be complete without this statement, it wouldn't be clear enough, and that's why it's good that the government made a statement and that's nice of you. But it's not nice to say that the minister supports domestic violence. Whatever statement she made in none said she supported family violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78785	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78786	Yes, I made it very clear to my colleague Lukacic that I would support the Istanbul Convention, ratification with statements and no statements. The statement serves only to in some way appease a part of your electoral body and your colleagues to then agree to vote and other countries have done so, and that is not unusual. For me, it's something that won't stop me from raising my hand for the Istanbul Convention. And as for Minister Murganic, I'm just quoting what the minister said, that it is so married, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78787	We're going to the sixth line, the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78788	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister, I must admit that in one part of your debate, I am surprised to you when you started calling on colleagues from the Bridge and colleagues from the Living Wall to support the Istanbul Convention for a simple reason, each of us entered this assembly with his attitude and I am sure that no one in that sense will change, so here to use free painting, the free paints made it. How we got in and out, and we'll come in on Friday as well after the vote. However, there is one thing that I am sure of, and that is that the Istanbul Convention is overtures, converts into Family Law, converts to the topic of banning abortions in Croatia, and will require a lot of energy, a lot of power, a lot of proof and a lot of thought about it, and here to prove what kind of Croatia we want, that some of the standards that have been achieved in Croatia and with which we have now been living are being reviewed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78789	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78790	Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash, to be called upon. Here's Mr. Grmoy and the bridge people I hope will change their minds because this is a convention that protects women from violence, there's no ideology on the left, right, yellow, blue, red, and I don't know what everything is, it's something that's clear to everyone. And I'm sorry if my colleagues from the Bridge and the Living Wall don't vote for the Istanbul Convention. Here are colleagues from the Living Wall and there are none, they are at all debates and Mr. Pernar and Mr. Sincic, but here they are tonight and they are gone. They obviously believe that this convention, the protection of women from domestic violence, is not to be spoken of. And I agree that this is an overture for the Family Law and the Law on Abortion, but we're going to very strongly protect the rights achieved and we're not going to let them be lower than they've been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78791	The last replica of a esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78792	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Mrsic. I will read you a quote, a quite confusingly written text "I think Croatia can implement the interests and values of women's protection by its legislation". You know who said that? It wasn't someone from the Bridge or the Living Wall, it was the prime minister of the government where you were the minister and colleague who also now volunteered for the replica, a government that didn't ratify the Istanbul Convention, and you're here talking very hypocritically about how to waste our time, why we're wasting time to spend it a long time ago. And if you and your colleague are already talking about that opposition to the Istanbul Convention is a prelude to some conservative revolution, then I don't see any more ideal people at the head of that conservative revolution than former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic with whom I share my position in this case. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78793	Thank you. And as for the protection of women, the only woman you've protected is your wife...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78795	... No arguments he goes personally, but what do we do, that's it. [[Specially enabled.]] I call on Mr. Grmoy and the Bridge to vote for the Istanbul Convention because if the Assembly is unique then there will be a much stronger message than in the Assembly there will be those hands that will be against the Istanbul Convention that means against protecting women from domestic violence. And that's the message. We did not ratify Milanovic's government and the SDP government at the time, it was a mistake, we admitted it. Here we go, all of us, right together, with the help of the Bridge and you to raise your hand with us, and then we can make it right together. Help us correct the mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78796	Injury of my colleague, Grumo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78797	Representative Mrsic has repeatedly been false. It is not a mistake, this quote that I have read is a quote recently given by former Prime Minister Milanovic, his position he has not changed. So he had that attitude, and that's his attitude, and the man's right. This is pure fog. We question the protection of women from violence can be resolved by our legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78798	You are probably aware that you have earned a reminder since you have not said any of the articles have been injured, and this has not been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you have one warning. The next debate is now up for a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78799	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues. Here's to the Istanbul Convention we've said a lot, and here's the time for me to have my 9 minutes and 50 seconds to say something about the Istanbul Convention in this High House. I would look back at the beginning of a little bit on my colleague Mrsic who personally called me and I was actually replicating in the same way as Mr Hajdovic. There's a lot of theme. And you had a chance while you were in power to deal with any topic, this is now a topic that is currently focused, currently at the debate in the Croatian Parliament and of course we are dealing with it. And by the way, here it is, I hear you've been kicked out of the SDP, I don't know, I guess you're wrong, so my condolences. As far as the Istanbul Convention is concerned, just a little bit about the metrics, a little bit about the metrics, because there's a lot of things being said, and nobody came in. It's not a measure of the protection of women from the violence of counterpart Vučetic, it's not a measure, it's not. And you can talk so philosophically about it in your own way, but it's not a measure. Because if any measure were in this House, then the part that has been disputed and adopted by the Croatian law as sovereign state would have been cast out long ago and protected by women in the right way, but it does not matter to anyone to protect women from violence, at least to those who bite their fingernails and knees and reefs to adopt this disputed document. Meritum is what you say there is, and there are all Croatian citizens who can read, and most of them can read, they read that there are birth theories in there, or gender ideologies. So what did you think the Istanbul Convention was going to say in that document, under the title of the introduction of gender ideology in Croatia? Well, of course not. However, as much as you try to speak, I especially tell my colleagues to whom I was in the club until the other day, yet the Croatian public is aware of what this document is carrying and this controversial article 3 is clearly and loudly saying separates two concepts of co-workers Jandrokovic, gender and sex, for the first time in Croatian legislation. And the Croatian Constitution recognizes only the term sex, does not recognize the term gender. But I will also agree with you on those loose arguments that we have long since Sanader and the Anti-discrimination Act introduced our legislation and gender ideology to a small door, we have introduced and it is not good and I have never said it is good and no one who criticises this document will say it is good. Unfortunately, we introduced, and then we were cheated under Sanader, and now we're back under Plenkovic, and we are, and I'm sorry about that. And I'm sorry about this HDZ, and I'm sorry for his unbelief. Mr. Claric, you can pick up the replica later, and we can talk. I'm sorry. But Plenkovic will pass, as Karamarko passed, as did Sanader and as did others, and so will the catharsis, I hope, and perhaps not. Maybe some other parties, maybe my HRAST gets a chance to just represent those people who are against this Istanbul Convention and against such authorities because it's wrong and it's upside down and it's not credible and it's not under the slogan under which you were in the elections. Your Mrs. Murganić's voting body, your voters are Democrats, these are people who are with you at Mass, those are people who are formally and truly members of the Catholic Church, and I can read you a whole statement from the Croatian bishops that is extremely clear, which says, only the end of the key, perhaps a little later if there is time. We therefore call on the MPs in the Croatian Parliament to plead against ratification of the Convention, and they say to all MPs in any political option, you don't have to yawn Mrs. Murganic, this says loud and clear, these are six times said, six times it's said explicitly and don't ignore it and say that you have some new age of religion. You may have, but the Catholic bishops were clear, explicit. But a little bit about MOST, so I'm interested in your vote, there are 15 of you at the club, as far as I hear 5 or 6 will vote for, the rest of you will, pardon me will be against, the rest of you for. Col. Dobrovic, Pranic, here comes Mr. Bulj, Grmoja, Petrov you will be against I heard, the others will be for. I think that this is a bit of a schizophrenic situation, I personally as I have come out of this coalition would no longer be party to people who are about one, me fundamental, key things for my worldview, for my people and my country disagree. As it will be about the issue of abortion, dear fellow Boric, I am explicit here, unlike you who will never be. Here I have to rephrase to my dear colleague Hasanbegovic, who is like me here, I am in favour of a referendum, I am in favour of a referendum, and I hope that this referendum will soon show what the Croatian people think, not only in the markets of Croatian cities, as it was in Zagreb and as it will be in Split. And you take a look at tomorrow at 6:00 on TV, look at that rally, and you're all freaking out together. And be apprehensive that you were not credible and that you ignored this document written by our bishops and supported by all the priests and the entire Catholic Church. Because that's the key. It's about the law of nature. It's not about something made up. Genderism certainly exists in many countries of the world because it has taken quite a wave. But when we talk a little bit about the argument to tell you clearly that there is no Hrvoje Zekanovic lonely in his thinking. Nearly 300 European parliamentarians did not vote in favour of this document, of which 750 were approximately. Either they pulled the card or they voted against it or they were abstentioned. And even a great Prime Minister's friend Tajani didn't want to vote for this document, he drew a card. 7 countries of the Council of Europe can list them: Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Hungary, will never ratify, and I am sure that several other countries will join, and some will come out, as Poland is doing, for example. So we're not here alone and it's not the invention of some Catholics or background groups as Mrsic, the advanced Mrsic calls us, but many countries of the world, their policy sees this as controversial. Even today, the prime minister of France spoke very much about Christian Europe and the need to restore Christian roots, and we ignore it. I am sorry about that and I am sorry that Prime Minister Plenkovic disappointed me, I am extremely sorry because after this you all know what is next and do not ignore it. There is a major HDZ coalition, a SDP that will particularly decline significantly in its rating, followed by the decomposition of MOST, because if you cannot meet on this key topic, you will be followed by a breakdown. I personally and there are certain, practical believers, Christians and Catholics, would not sit with someone in the club and explain to them that they should be against this controversial document. It's just that red line I won't cross. But here I still have to get a little bit attached to the general relationship to these documents. Soon we will have Family Law, you know, HDZ will also adopt this Family Law in the same way as it has adopted everything and will give in, Minister you know, in everything it will give in to the HNS. In all things, you'll give in to Miss Pooh who was talking about candy today. That's fantastic. We listened to the other day as the guy made her get married, now we're listening to the story of candy because she didn't want to give birth to children and she's sending a message from a pay phone in the Croatian public's Croatian Parliament, and we're very interested in your intimacy, which is one story that fits perfectly into the Croatian Parliament. But he's also talking about candy how the males got more candy than girls. So do you know what the measure of this convention is? Obviously, neither you nor many others know. It is important and money, I deeply doubt these last statements and ministers and Mr. Prime Minister that it is only 70 million kuna because we have all heard very, very loudly and very loudly from Ms. Shujica that it is a billion kuna. Suddenly the number has changed, I don't know which item doesn't match, and I'm going to get a little bit of information, so we're going to react to that question because that number can't be reduced by 20 times just like that. But I'll say the Croatian people are a tough people and they've survived through their past. So this time, it will also survive political incorrection or I will say treason in the end, and it will get another chance, yes, it will get another chance and it will be wrong for you and it will win and it will beat the Croatian people as it has always won.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78800	We're going in a row, we've got a lot of replicas, and first of all, our esteemed colleague, Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78801	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Zekanovic, imagine for a moment that we are all here around you ignorant. I've been listening to your argument, and it's probably not gonna be hard for you because that's what you think we are, so why don't you explain to us what gender ideology is? What are those birth theories that you call them, I don't understand it, here I confess, I don't understand, maybe I'm stupid, let me explain, tell me what it is, teach me. And the other thing, you, as per your debate, a self-proclaimed great Catholic, say this is an anti-religious, anti-Church document, that against the planting of the Catholic foundations of Europe and one newspaper, you may have heard of it, L'Osservator Romano said on August 1, 2014 that this is a step forward in the fight for women's rights, L'Osservator Romano. The vote of the Holy See, the state of the Vatican City. I guess you know what that is. Step forward to protect women's rights. Explain that to me, here, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78802	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78803	Dear colleague Grbin, that you are ignorant, though, especially you, I think that you are one of the smartest colleagues here, here is counterpart Klaric, perhaps it is a real expression, Croatian representatives, very well-read and eloquent, etc. However, I have now found a definition of gender ideology, whether there is a need to read to you, you can find it online, type in and see. Please warn Mr. Klaric, I can neither debate nor replicate him, but the 17th time he enters my word, please, President of the Parliament. Please let her hold on a little bit, it's almost weekend, so she can relax a little bit. My colleague Grbin, I will repeat, will not and will not write in the subtitle of the document gender ideology or quiet, secretly introducing gender ideology in Croatia but I will now ask you what is the difference between sex and gender, will not have the opportunity to respond, you can answer me later and why for the first time in Croatian legislation separates those two concepts that have always been... Synonyms? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78804	Thank you. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78805	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would love the same if I could define but what I would really like to deny here is what you're saying, which is simply the truth that the first time is to be introduced into Croatian legislation. I would refer you to the 2013 Constitutional Court statement, which, I would dare say here, has little more weight than the Constitutional Court of the Croatian Bishop's Conference, at least in this place for a referendum in which they say in the Republic of Croatia sexual and gender diversity are protected by the Constitution, the rights of all persons independent of sex and gender to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and their dignity of human, Article 35. The constitution, these legal facts are today considered to be of lasting value, counterpart Zekanovic, Croatian constitutional state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78806	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78807	Dear colleague, as I said, we have since Sanader introduced these terms into the Croatian legal system and I deeply disagree and am deeply dissatisfied with it. But I will repeat it or explain it a little bit, for the first time these two concepts are defined, and that document you read is not a Croatian law, it's just the opinion of the Constitutional Court, that's it, just the opinion of the Constitutional Court. For the first time, we have a definition of these two concepts that are clearly separated, extremely clearly separated for the first time in Croatian legislation, however much you ignore it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78808	Third replica, dear colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78809	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic, I am asking you to answer questions about gender ideology as well as my colleagues Grbino and colleagues, since you have not responded twice already. I am convinced that you know this and that here you will explain it to us all so that we can better prepare our discussions and hear what your arguments are. So tell us what gender ideology is, since you talk about it all the time and you haven't yet defined what it is and on the other hand that you don't talk about most Croatian citizens and on behalf of most Croatian citizens, there you are calling on the people, this, look at the latest survey on the Istanbul Convention, 66% of Croatian citizens support full or in the vast majority of the Istanbul Convention, and only 22% do not support it. So three times as many of our fellow citizens, if there were no politicians like you, that percentage would probably be a lot higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78810	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78811	Dear colleague Maras, as I said, we have a google, so googling the definition of gender ideology nicely. But I'll try you, I'll be plastic to you so I don't read the definitions outside, I'll be a very plastic colleague to you, Maras. It's like when they convinced us, so we'll, we'll introduce a life partnership law, so you won't, no problem. Well, in the end, we now have attempts to introduce LGBT IQ departments into Croatian libraries. So this document won't change anything crucial, but what it is is gender ideology, you have to see nicely, for example, one Swedish, Norwegian, means Nordic countries in general, or for example. in Canada. For example. Birth ideology is that Canada has recently erased the names of father and mother in official documents and left only parent 1 and parent 2. With it interesting, no one can choose who will be first, but the others, but they have to pull out of some vessel, who will be number one and number two, that there is no discrimination, that's gender ideology, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78812	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78813	Thank you very much. Yes, or I'm not in the SDP, it defines me as a socio-democracy, and I don't need your condolences. In my debate, I have highlighted everything that the Social Democrats represent and everything that is the essence of social democracy, and obviously you have a problem with that part, which speaks of protection and promotion and preservation of human rights. Therefore, you need to express your condolences to Mr Zekanovic, which is, in principle, advocating the restriction of human rights and freedom and that is what you are saying here all the time. Not what you're trying to sell, through explaining your own ideology, but de facto, clearly say that human rights and freedoms are limited in Croatia. And when you say Plenkovic and Sanader screwed us, who are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78814	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78815	He screwed me and Milanovic to get along,... I was talking about the HDZ with which I was recently in the coalition, i.e., and about neither you nor you were in charge, or you were instituting laws that were contrary to natural law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In contrast to what I believe to be right, otherwise, which is also propagated by my church and the Catholic Church. And you, in fact Mr. Škorić had a nice replica of you a moment ago, very nice. You are referring to democracy, you are a great Democrats, or Democrats, as you said, now I don't know what language it is, a slightly easter variant, that the eastern variant, however, respected Mrsic, is exactly you the totalitarian or you would say torturer probably, is it? And then under the cover of openness of a broad spirit, you would actually easily solve it in your own, familiar way. It is known what was done at a time when yours ruled and once again, I'm sorry for being kicked out of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78816	Let's move on, five replicas, dear fellow Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78817	Dear Mr. Zekanovic, you're exclusive and it's really not nice. Here, that's what I'm saying, a vote of conscience, implies a vote for ratification, is it? He would invite you and all the future, truly honest from the soul, to respect the fact that there are different opinions, is there, conflict thinking, cannot and must not be a personal conflict. The measure of the Istanbul Convention is the protection of women from violence, and we need to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78818	My colleague Orepić, if I've raised my tensions a little bit and called some of my colleagues that I think should have voted against, I thought to them, for you, I don't know under which worldview you're under and under which you've even entered the Croatian Parliament, you don't actually have a bridge, you have the best actually possibility of making a decision, and I've spoken for myself. I wouldn't be, I wouldn't be, because these are key questions for me. They're not the key to you. It's the key to me. And, of course, each of us here, fellow Boric and everyone has the right to decide and vote according to their conscience. But when we talk about things here, I might have been a little dramatic, it's here about conscience, my conscience and my conscience here people here. They don't have a problem there, that side doesn't have a problem. To them this is strong, obviously you don't have a problem either. And here we're talking about a lie and a demagogy where there's a cheated voting body, which is deeply against this document and therefore a little dramatic on my part, there was nothing... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78819	Let's move on, dear colleague of Jack's, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78820	Dear colleague, in some of your media statements, we have had the opportunity to hear that in some countries that have ratified the Istanbul Convention, which are in our environment, this kind of, this gender ideology that you're talking about, it's missed under the radar. If we take that as a possibility, as an option, I'm interested, how about the fact that by the 11th month of 2017 17 Member States ratified the Convention. Among them there is no waste in this short time mentioned, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain and Sweden. I wonder how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78821	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78822	Dear colleagues, here I warned my colleague Mrsic to use Serbian, I warn you too, try, try to speak Croatian, pay yourself a course, speak Croatian, and I think that, as if a colleague of Kajtazi would start speaking Roma or someone when he started speaking, I don't know colleagues from the IDS Italian etc. So, try, that we can understand each other, but hard feelings, clean, there was an opportunity, so I warned you, it's not a short time, but it's been a very long time, so it's been 7 years, 8 and only so many countries have ratified, but I'm going to ask you another key question, so you answer me, you can answer later, and it's about why in these countries there's an increase in violence against women? Why in BiH, there are colleagues of two from the HDZ of BiH, why in BiH who ratified the Istanbul Convention had an increase in violence against women? Here's a fellow dear later you can explain to me why this convention doesn't work in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78823	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected colleague of the Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78824	Your Honor, Mr. President. Please warn your colleague Zekanovic that he finally speaks Croatian, that we understand him as a human.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78825	This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is what you said. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to give you a warning too. [[Pupovac raid: because what he's saying is far from Croatian standard.]] Here's your colleague, Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78826	Article 238 of this has been an insult to a colleague, and I think you need to give your colleague a heads-up because he can't be so inappropriately insulting to a colleague. And this was the best example that he's gone completely astray and this is proof that we need the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, and I have 12 seconds to say that it's very interesting that you recognize the Serbian language so that you're not as big a Croat as you show yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78827	Okay. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, so I'm giving you a heads-up too. But I want to return to my colleague Zekanovic. It was you who asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure when a colleague named Bauk spoke. With whose grades we can agree or not and I then said that your objection and seeking to hurt the Rules of Procedure is not justified because he can speak what he thinks he should speak. In the meantime, you used some expressions that weren't appropriate, I didn't warn you, but you were talking about watching tomorrow's meeting at 6:00 p.m. and we were terrified. I don't know what that's supposed to mean. Is that some kind of threat or something? Second, just a little, take it easy, sit down, you're nervous, take it easy, take it easy, call it all around you, and now let me answer you. And I ask you to be really careful because we don't have here, or we have a few representatives who may not speak the perfect Croatian language, but I will respond if there is a need so please don't be you who assess the quality of someone's language and someone's speech. Now what do you need?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78828	Well, you asked me a question, so I think
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78829	.../The incursion president: no, you'll answer that, I'm just pointing out that you're making threats that I don't like, that's all I wanted to say. No more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Now it's your honorary colleague Marko Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78830	... That's why religion is valuable and that's why religion enters the human rights corps. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] When you talk about Christianity, I think that all those who call on Christianity should be Christianized before that, unless they master the notion that man is autonomous and that man is a picture of God by making decisions based on his own knowledge and his freedom. Christendom is noble to you also because we have an example that one was right, and the whole world is wrong, so it would be good for you, it was Jesus Christy, and it would be good for you to call on the crowd that we will observe, to have this very principle in front of your eyes, that one might be right, and that everyone else may be wrong. That's what happened to you in Christianity. Furthermore, when you refer to Jesus Christ, he knew how to distinguish biology from gender, when womanhood was attacked, for example by prostitutes because society proved to be a woman who does not play the role she should He protected her biology. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78831	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78832	Dear colleague Vučetić, you said well. One against everyone, that's exactly how it is here. Thank you very much, you've very much defended me, so I'm the only one here who's explicitly speaking against this document, all the rest of you MOST colleagues and you HDZ colleagues and your SDP colleagues are all for it. Here I would still take the opportunity, I try to speak in a standard Croatian language, really, which, by the way speaking with the dialect of my fellow Pupovac, mention and ratify are not Croatian words, but there was no adhominem, but it was according to the language, I have nothing against the Serbian language, but in the Serbian Parliament, in Croatian, I am glad my colleague Pupovac speaks with a nice standard Croatian language almost without any dialect, so here is a little more exercise with him and it will be great.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78833	Dear colleague Pranic, please. It's your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78834	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Zekanovic, in your presentation, you touched my personal name as well as how I will vote on Friday. I probably won't even vote. Personally, as farce as I'm concerned, one political curtain from turning away from the right topics, because let's be realistic, this will be voted on by most HDZ, most of the SDP, and when we sum up the last lists, the parliamentary lists for the last HDZ election 9 out of 11 lists had no women's quota at all, the national coalition 6 out of 11. As much as women respect those who talk about women's rights in Croatia today. Thank you. [[Intruder: dear colleague Pranic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78835	Comrade Zekanovic, please tell me otherwise that you want a replica because there is a rule. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78836	Okay. I apologize to the esteemed, calm president of the Croatian Parliament. I am a little upset, but it's my character and mine. Some inside the van are upset, but in fact, inside they are eaten by a colleague named Pranic. But I'd like to say this, I agree that you have, there's a lot of it, and when we're done with this, we're going to move on to other topics and you and me, and I'm really hoping that you're coming from one of the little traditional places of Dalmatian burn anyway, and you're not going to be in favour of this caucus document.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78837	Dear fellow Mattelian, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78838	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Zekanovic, I can try to understand you, but of course I can't agree with you. You said in your discussion that the Croatian Constitution does not recognise the concept of gender, but you did not say that the Constitution defines Croatia as a secular state. By listening to your debate, I come to the conclusion that you would like the laws to be passed not on Mark's square, but on Kaptola. Secondly, when you mentioned these countries that have been ratified, which have not ratified this Convention, you listed Armenia, Russia, Bulgaria, Hungary, is it really the countries that we should look up to, or are those countries whose society you dream of and whose economy you dream of or may be Canada or maybe it's Germany or maybe it's Sweden or maybe it's Norway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78839	My colleague Zekanovic, I'm praying for you to come in, we must have some sort of order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78840	Dear colleague. Here's just a little thought has run away from me, look you mentioned some countries that we need to be role models. I agree that these countries are by something advanced, and in this context they are not advanced. They're not countries that haven't ratified, they're countries that will never ratify, there's 15 more that haven't ratified that we understand each other. And there are very advanced countries that you look up to, to you advanced ones. Or, for example, Hungary, I have nothing against Hungary and I am very glad that there is a Prime Minister of the Orbana, a prime minister who is not ashamed of being a Christian, is not a Catholic but a reformed Christian. But Croatia is a secular country and we all know it, but if Croatian priests will at some point say what they think about a document and point to their believers, Catholics that they should vote, they can listen to it or not listen to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78841	Now it's time for a respected colleague of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78842	Dear colleague Zekanovic. You said that we in the Bridge have a schizophrenic situation because of the decision that the representatives of the Bridge have the right to vote in accordance with their commitment. For us, it is the highest achievement within party democracy to decide on world-famous issues. And I'm going to give you a good example. When they decided in June 2017 in the German Bundestag on a similar world-wide subject, they decided on marriage to same-sex couples in accordance with the worldview. For example, CDU-CSU representatives decided how they felt about the worldview. Three-quarters against the law, one quarter for Chancellor Merkel against the law, some of its ministers for the law, the SDP for the whole of the law, the law has been passed by a large coalition, and that is how a developed parliamentary democracy decides.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78843	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78844	I'm not going to agree with you. That's clear to you. For me, there are red lines in life and politics, and in some things, you wouldn't cross over to your loved ones, not to your family, not to your friends, not to your politics. And I think there are things that we can have a compromise on, so you're going to want a school in Varazdin, and I'm going to want to go to Sibenik, so I'm going to vote for my Sibenik school, you're going to want a varazdin school, and that's legitimate to me. But there are things that are fundamental to me, things that are a red line or over which there is a red line that cannot be crossed. And that's where we think. So you don't have anything that's controversial to you, I have issues, or you'll always be pragmatic, and I can't be pragmatic in some things, but I'll say clearly what I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78845	Dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Often mentioned by the bishops, you mention the church, the Commission "Justitia et pax" of the German Bishop's Conference in 2004 published the document "Born righteousness and the work of the church all over the world" or in German... /Vovornica speaks German./... Please call them urgently and ask them to drop their birth date. Second, you still haven't given your so-called. Birth ideologies. You've been asked twice, three times, three times, you asked your colleague, Maras, to Google. I Googled not to find it, it's a nonexistent term so please since you invented it to give me your fictional definition. And third, you don't know the difference between gender and gender. I'm a female, but before '45. For example, in Yugoslavia, in the Republic of Croatia, I would not have the right to vote as a woman, not because I am a female but because I was such a natural. Before Khetrine Hepburn, women didn't wear pants, they wear them today. You. do not wear the skirt of fellow Zekanovic, but to wear it I do not wear you [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] You'd observe differently. .../Conversation disabled./... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78847	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78848	At one point I was really worried when you said I was female, I thought you'd say you were second-born. I was relieved when you started your philosophy going around. So gender ideology is exactly what I'm saying, and I'm saying that someone can be born a man, and choose to be a woman, and then change to be a man. There's a fantastic case now I don't know which state somewhere in Latin America where one person is to retire early because in that country still women are up to 65, men up to 67, he said that she and he left two years earlier in retirement. That's exactly what I'm talking about, pal. And then a colleague who talked about women's quotas, so we don't have a problem with that either, but well, these are colleagues of kerffecques and you know they're kerffecs. But gender ideology exists, so go to Canada a little bit, get information and start using the help you have on your desk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78849	Listen, don't take too much of this example if he's the one who retired early, it might be a good idea for our people. All right, let's move on, dear fellow Chief. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78850	In your address, you mentioned yesterday's announcement to the Croatian Bishop's Conference. Among other things, it said that all MPs are urged to plead against ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Among other things, they are said to be concerned about the discord of bringing unrest and conflict into Croatian society. I personally as a representative and as a member of the Catholic Church, as a believer, believe that this is a pressure on me as a representative and a member of the Catholic Church, and I believe that the Croatian Bishop's Conference has crossed that red line. The views of the Croatian Bishop's Conference are well-known, and it is not necessary to make statements last night to further pour oil on fire, which causes dissent, bringing unrest and conflict into Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78851	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78852	My colleague, there was a Marin Luther in his day, so he was Calvin, so they left the Catholic Church because they weren't satisfied. The Catholic Church has its clear rules, and those who are believers call them the Holy Catholic Church because they believe in its holiness. The interpretation of the Holy Scriptures and the teachings is catholicly interpreted by Claire. They are priests, monks, and of course bishops. You read it yourself. I know it's hard for you, but you said Croatia is a secular state and I'm about to vote against what the bishops said. Wait a minute, I have to admit, I can't figure out your own thesis right now. You're Catholic, but you'll only take over the part that suits you. It's like some HDZ guy says here I won't support Andrej Plenkovic. He'd be expelled immediately. He'd be expelled immediately. That's how you do with these things. Nicely choose your religion, have them really or invent your new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78853	We're going to the last line. Dear fellow Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78854	Thank you. My colleague Zekanovic, you said that the Croatian people are tough. Yes, the Croatian people are tough when it comes to enemies, but when it comes to Croatian rule, the Croatian people are coming down. The Croatian government has trampled on the Croatian people, it is already known, that Bruno Busic predicted that so will the Croatian government be trampling on the Croatian people. You were part of that Croatian government, no longer. You are part of this Croatian government that did not support my laws which would return overpaid interest to people, which would stop a monster called the Croatian Bank, but because when it comes to a baba-horn called the Convention, you are very powerful, and when it comes to the monster that is before us, which is all around us, against that monster you are not able to fight. However, I hope that now that you have left the Croatian government, we will cooperate in the fight against monsters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78856	Dear fellow, of course I will support you in the fight against monsters, but I still have to give you a little bit, but I have to criticize you, too. A colleague of Škibol and colleagues of Hrelj managed to enforce their laws. And the Temple is the hand of the guardian of the majority. Is that so? And you're not. You wanted to push your law just to push it. You could have come to Prime Minister Plenkovic and told me I want to be a part of the majority, but my terms are those laws, and you've never done that, you've never been completely honest, and you know that on this side, it's been a will for those laws of yours, and you haven't done that. You still get there, but without me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78857	The government's representative, Mistica Murganic, has now come to the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78858	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It may not seem like I'm talking about the subject, but it's very important what I need to share with you right now. Today we talk about fighting violence all the time. However, as in these few hours there have been verbal violence, bile and insult, and I must honestly admit and you will agree with me that it was disproportionate to the woman again. My colleague Zekanovic, I must really ask you, with what right of me as an official, as a minister all the time you are calling, asking about my religious beliefs, asking about my loyalty to the party, and it has been going on since I was a minister, the minister prepared this document and this Law. And as much as it may seem to you, Mr Mrssic, I honestly and deeply believe in equality and against violence, and that is what the women of the autonomous houses who have manifested themselves about it, but of course, when something is positive, it is not interesting to hear. You've also tried to address your colleagues in an ugly way, personally to me, and that's also your birth conditioned verbal violence. My colleague Zekanovic, you even told me that I should, if I am a Catholic, and if I am the real HDZ woman, I should resign. I ask you, if you are so moral, and you claim that you have the right to conscience in deciding on this issue, why don't you resign, why don't you give up your mandate because you're on the HDZ list. Maybe it's your fear, you're afraid you won't be on the winning list anymore, and you won't be in a passing council seat. You pity my colleagues, I smiled and asked them if they wanted HRAST to lead them. You can't criticize my every look and my every smile and publicly call me. Is it because I'm cooperative, happy or because I'm a minister or because I'm a woman? I'm decent, but that doesn't mean I'm stuck in a public space all the time. It's the very ones who know that their ideas in this government won't go away no matter how much you liked it. We didn't go too far from that Parliament when we were terrified when one of our fellow Parliamentarians, a colleague, told, cut the story down, you're not for wise men, you're for mattresses. We, my dear colleagues, are silent and all who now advocate not to adopt Istanbul are starting like this, I am against violence, I would never hit a woman. It doesn't matter, I trust you all, but the question is how much we as a society, as a state, are willing to protect those women who have suffered and suffer further violence. If we're all so strong against violence and nobody does it, then I don't know where the statistics come from. So this debate has shown that we don't even understand what we need to think and talk about here today. And one more thing, of course, I apologize, not everyone. And one more thing, I'd like to highlight this sentence where it's said there's nothing to expect from this government. This government has, however, put it, you must honestly admit in these difficult situations and times, this law on the agenda, and this minister stands for it, however hard you try to demean work, especially women in this political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78859	Thank you. Yes, sir. You're staying in the business of hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78860	.../Intruder: I must./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78861	You're aware you've already had one and
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78862	.../Intruder: I am aware of the Honorable President, I must say this, and then you'll probably punish me and then I'll go home. Not at home, my house is in Sibenik. So 238 is something, my dear colleague. You spoke of my place and I remained credible at what I always said unlike you and similar. Don't just forget that I was the only one in this House defending you when your SDP colleagues attacked you for chocolate bars in Catholic kindergarten, the only me and no one was defending you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78863	Thank you very much. I didn't realize my colleague Zekanovic's time was up, you didn't say what was hurt in the Rules of Procedure, you deserved a second warning and thus you lose your right to participate in the debate. I'm sorry, you didn't follow the rules, I hope you won't abuse it and say that you lost your words because you had different views than the President of the Parliament. You lost your right to speak because you didn't follow the order, and the order is the basis for us to function. Let's move on. Dear colleague Bauk, you asked for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78864	Madam Minister, this is one of the better performances in the Croatian Parliament that you have had and everything you have told your colleague, Zekanovic, you have told him well. But I'll remind you of what I said here today, the Istanbul Convention is not a topic at all, here is the topic of fighting the freedom of individuals, the Istanbul Convention is a means and you take another step, disband the task force that has set you up with this kind of family law, replace Mrs. Brave from that task force, then you'll give confirmation of what you said and in the second step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78865	Let's move on. Next individual, nothing or nothing? Nothing. We're going to the next debate. It's a respected colleague, Maras, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78866	Thank you very much. I must begin my debate with a single finding now offered by Minister Murganic, who says that in these difficult times, the government had the courage to propose ratification to the Croatian Parliament. I would say that as far as the climate is concerned in the Croatian public, as far as supporting it is concerned, these are not difficult times at all. Mrs. Murganic, if 67% of the Republic's citizens support ratification of the Istanbul Convention, then it is much easier to ratify it than to sit as a government minister where 77% of citizens do not support the government's work and the direction Croatia is going in. So I wouldn't worry Mrs. Murganic about what the citizens are going to tell you about the Istanbul Convention or Mr. Stier who's probably suffocating certain things for you right now. I would be more concerned about what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will tell you about your work and the work of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and how they evaluate the work of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, and how they judge how we see 77% of our fellow citizens think that the government is doing a disastrously bad job and that they are not troubled by what the Government is going to propose and the Council will adopt the great majority of Istanbul Convention, but rather that this government is likely to remain in power for 2 and a half years. That bothers them much more, believe me, Mrs. Murganic, than what you just said. Because it's not hard to suggest something that the vast majority of our citizens are for. What we are going to do here, I am convinced by the great majority to adopt, many of our fellow citizens see as something positive in the Republic of Croatia, which is that basic human rights can be reached by consensus in the Croatian Parliament and that this rhetoric of the current flash of attention because of what is the only one who is willing to do a spectacle about certain things Mr Zekanovic in the Croatian Parliament, means that this is essentially an exception, not a rule, and that many of our people are now watching these discussions and support which the Istanbul Convention will receive in the Croatian Assembly, in fact think that Croatia will be a better place for life tomorrow, and it offers them a certain hope and on that side should continue. Because there is no ideology in the fact that gender-based violence destroys the family, means all those who call on the family and who say that the family is essentially the reason they oppose the Istanbul Convention should understand that gender-based violence destroys the family and that it is essentially something that is doing the opposite family, not the adoption of the Istanbul Convention. That the vast majority of victims of violence are based on the sex of women and girls. And that inequality is one of the main, gender-based societies is one of the main, I would say the problem that leads to gender-based violence. These things need to be dealt with, and these things need to be resolved that fundamental human rights are also not ideological, that violence is physically, mentally, abuse or forced marriages, sexual mutilation, that it has nothing to do with ideology. That it has to do with basic human rights and that it is in the foundations and preambles of the Istanbul Convention and I can't understand that what I just listed earlier, that these specific problems that should be solved in the Republic, or some of these things we don't have, but there's a global world of some society and I haven't accepted it yet and there are things that unfortunately are being practiced, and that should have stopped practicing long ago, but in the Republic of some of these things we're going to be more successful tomorrow and we're going to have better results here and we're talking about how many women were victims of violence, how unfortunately their partners killed, etc. So, on that side, I don't see what the problem would be and what anyone would find the basis to be against a document like this. A colleague who spoke here earlier compared us and a little with nostalgia called some countries that did not or as he says will never ratify the Istanbul Convention. Look, I wouldn't rather be around those countries, although I don't know why he figured it out that they would never, maybe sometimes in the Hungarian climate, so someone else will come to power and society will mature so much to adopt the Istanbul Convention. How does he know it'll never be? But at this point, I would rather be within countries like Italy, Germany, all countries mostly of the EU, or not all but the vast majority of EU countries, developed world, standards, human rights, but within these countries that he has cited. And on that side, if that's all a man would look at, of course he should support the Istanbul Convention. Now, looking on the other side, I find it amazing that this kind of ferocity with some MPs or advocates, or opponents of the Istanbul Convention, was not the other day when people and the gentleman who walked with the cross from Rijeka came here to Mark’s square. Then where was Zeljka Markic and Hrvoje Zekanovic? Why didn't they welcome this man? Don't sick children have that kind of attention and support from both associations and churches and Zekanovic and Zeljke Markic to get support in the way that they now defend certain other attitudes with so much energy. Where were you when our people had a problem with the Swiss franc? Where are these people when we expect a pension reform that will drive 300 thousand of our fellow citizens into retirement five years later, or, excuse me, two years later, where people will have to change their life plans and everything they planned? Where are these people when they need to talk about minimum wage or poverty in the Republic of Croatia or about leaving youth from the Republic of Croatia? It's amazing to me that this topic has so busy their attention, and all that I've listed before, everything that's an objective and huge problem in the Republic of Croatia, goes past them, and that's why they don't meet, that's why they don't march, they don't threaten gatherings, groups of people, people, etc. In the end, I'll say that I'm glad that the vast majority of believers in the Republic still don't need someone to tell them what to think. Because if 66% of our fellow citizens want to ratify the Istanbul Convention, it means that, regardless of the recommendations of our church, they will do what they think. They don't need the church to tell them what to think, they don't need to tell them who to vote for, how to live, how to form a family, people have the right to have a family and their life the way they think it's right, if they're not hurting someone else and if they follow the law and certain social norms that we've adopted as a society. And for that reason, I would like to join here and invite my colleague, Bauk, Minister Murganic, to consider this, in my opinion, the wrong attitudes that went public with the Family Law, that it does not restrict the right of people to choose the life they want to live. There is no right of the state and you, Minister, to determine to me how I will live my life and how I will live in my family and with my family. Keep your fingers off my family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78867	Let's move on. There's not a single replica, so now it's time for a respected colleague, Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78868	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Domestic violence is one of the most common forms of violence against women and affects 30% of women from all over the world. It's the most common and widespread form of human rights violation. In Europe, every 3rd woman experiences domestic violence during her life. 75% of women employed have had sexual harassment at work, each ten women are victims of harassment or stalking on the Internet. Croatia is not the exception in this data. In Croatia we also had opportunities to hear here today, every 15 minutes a woman suffers violence, i.e. the victim of violence. And faced with this problem that crosses actually the borders of the countries, which is what counterpart Pusic said nicely yesterday on the Committee, even cultural differences between the countries, the European Commission decided not for the first time to take any more significant measures and to realise that the rise in violence against women in the Member States is actually visible, and that countries have different practices facing this problem decided for the first time to legally balance practices and the Istanbul Convention was created. This is not the first convention of this kind that the European Commission has adopted and called in some way for the signing and ratification of certain social groups, in order to strengthen the protection of the human rights of individual social groups or of some more serious social problems faced not only by Member States of the European Union but also by much broader. Thus, the Republic of Croatia is also a party to the Council of Europe Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which the Minister also said yesterday on the Committee where the areas of protection and promotion and protection of the rights of persons with disabilities were particularly highlighted, and then the Convention on Corruption, all of which are international agreements and international conventions which Croatia has accessed in some way, which it has accepted by means of signature and ratification itself, have undertaken to transpose certain solutions into its legislation and some of them to implement these conventions show the results today. And no one has ever really questioned them in this kind of strange way. If the ratification of this Convention will contribute to our country's obligation to allocate more financial resources to various segments of prevention of victims' protection and more intense persecution of violent persons, and it will because we see it by strategy and budget that it plans to invest something more than 71 million kuna, if it obliges us to have one shelter for women and children victims of violence on every 30,000 inhabitants, and it will because its ratification will take over that obligation on itself, if this Convention contributes to that, and it wants us to set up free phone lines for women victims of violence victims of violence, then I see nothing controversial about this Convention. If this convention will contribute to women getting stronger financial, legal assistance as victims, and will, then there is nothing disputed about this convention. If this Convention will help us to invest more in prevention and education on the awareness of the problem of violence against women and violence in the family, that it is not something to be silent about, that it is not a problem for a woman, a child who needs to stay in four walls but is a problem where you can address state institutions and the state for help, and it will, then I do not see any reason not to approach ratification of this Convention. These are only small parts of those segments that we as a state will commit are not the only ones, but what we as a state will do after ratification in a stronger prevention of violence against women and a stronger protection of women who, unfortunately, are already victims of this violence. But these days not only for days but also for months, we have a strong anti campaign against the Istanbul Convention, which we have had the opportunity to hear and in the Croatian Parliament is being led in a way that the protection of women from violence is just a front, and that the Istanbul Convention is actually a mechanism for establishing some kind of birth ideology, a term that is here today all day, and even the previous few days we haven't had a chance to hear what it is. And we won't even hear it. You know why? Because there's gender termology, but the concept and not just the notion of life of gender ideology doesn't exist. There's gender-related violence, there's gender as term, there's gender equality, there's gender equality, there's gender discrimination that we're fighting, but gender ideology doesn't exist, it's an imaginary enemy. But yes, this convention deals in one part of the root line, combating gender-related violence. Gender and gender are not the same, we've had opportunities here but to hear something about it, but I wouldn't go into more detail right now about what's the difference between gender and gender. But what's interesting is that in the last three years, some scenarios have been repeated, civil education is being introduced which scares us by the same people who say that we are planting their own ideology. They say that we promote, as they say, civil and health education promotes gender ideology, homosexualism, and even goes so far as to say that we promote pedophile through curricular reform and a new lecture. They also organised public consultations to show that most Croatian citizens are against these documents. The same thing they did in public consultation on the Istanbul Convention, it's all already seen, it's all the same principle just different shades. And it's always the same imaginary enemy, nonexistent gender ideology. And now I ask you, a civil and health education was introduced in Croatian schools, not as an object but as an inter-species topic, which has changed over the past few years, which has damaged the Croatian family, which has undermined Croatian society? Nothing, he won't either. Did the boys start nailing? No, I don't. Have they started going to women's bathrooms? No, I don't. It's nonsense, it's deception and it's lies. But, yes, to teach children in schools through civic and health education that there are different, that there are different from us, but that we should respect us, not condemn us. No matter how different they are, yes, that teaches us civic and health education. In the end, faith teaches us. What's most valuable is faith, life, life, that, but more importantly, that life after death. Life as the greatest gift man as an ideal creation on his picture. But the life he deserves is a living being who deserves dignity, and dignity and a life without fear is a life without violence. And when we hear today that someone in the name of faith, calling for faith, calls for a Split coast, threatens and says, as it was, to see, will be you, come to see how many you will be, you will be afraid. I don't know, I don't know, I don't really know where we live, and then what faith it is, I don't know that faith, and I've been raised by a Franciscan, my whole life, where they've always taught me to respect a living being, regardless of his knowledge of property, body and department. The soul is what matters and protect and respect every man. And I sincerely hope that this ratification of Istanbul will happen, but I'm afraid this is just the beginning. These kind of scenarios we've seen, for civil, health, curricular, Istanbul... Go on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78869	Comrade Voter, thank you very much. Time's up, colleague Klisovic, you're a little late. Comrade Škorić, you've reached out to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78870	Thank you very much, Your Honor, dear colleague of the Voice. Here, listening to a colleague of the Voice and exposure and advocacy for ratification of the Istanbul Convention, I cannot take the impression, so after 3 years here's what was in the Parliament, what you had the opportunity to do, discuss coming here today in a position, that women's rights try to traffic into a monopoly of the left political centre, I find it totally unacceptable. And when you say there's no birth theory, you'd ask a few questions, is it true that the human dispute is not male and female, but a continuous transition from male to female? Is it true that a human is born sexually neutrally and compensated for socializing a woman and a man? Is it true that with an adult male or a woman only a social structure, this structure should be called gender, and the storks have two or so, according to this, as much as 70. Is it true that every man has a birth identity, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78871	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78872	I will allow myself, Mr. Skoric, to be a fellow member of Skoric, to be perhaps a little politically incorrect, and perhaps also gender-conceptive, and I will answer you this way. If you were a real man, then these questions, which you're asking me, you'd be asking here today at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78873	Let's move on, individual debate, esteemed colleague, Dragana Jeckov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78874	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. One of the colleagues in the debate today said that there is almost no longer anything that has been said about the Istanbul Convention and has not already been discussed, however, I believe there is and I will just talk about it. In fact, I'm going to talk about sexual violence against women as a particular topic and a special category to point out, because there's a little talk about this subject, and it's just that these cases are kind of a gray zone because they don't log in. So there's, say, a reported rape, in fact, even comes to 10-15 unreported. Furthermore, one of our well-known experts, Dr Ivana Radocic, in her one analysis, has expired and has come to the conclusion that, when it comes to sexual violence, or rape, it is in fact the most pronounced expressions of stereotypes and prejudice, both when it comes to decision-making and judgment. So it happens, unfortunately, that the defendant was also released in our country, because he couldn't know that the woman didn't want sexual intercourse, because she was in pajamas, and that's why she was dressed provocatively, that's why she challenged him. Furthermore, unfortunately, there are sad cases, when the defendant was released, because his ex-wife had stopped resisting, subsequently agreed to sexual intercourse, and in fact she suffered serious physical injuries. There are also situations where the defendant was released, because by throwing the knife past the bed, the court actually interpreted not as force, but as a masculine guess, aimed at emphasising masculinity. So that's a classic example of birth stereotype. The study is also what needs to be done as a serious problem, is to examine the victim's personal life, so when the victim becomes a corner. characterized as unbelievable, among other things, because she, for example, discontinued schooling or had a short skirt or did not immediately report, or the question arises whether she is leading a decent life or not. According to information from a criminal legal expert, for this sexual delinquency, very often, therefore, when it comes to rape, due to lower obstacles, and simpler proceedings, they qualify as a criminal part of sexual intercourse without consent, for which it is... the sentence of up to 5 years shall be imposed, for which a sentence is issued or a sentence under the agreement of the parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's a simple practice, a state attorney or a defendant and the defendant agree that without anyone asking the victim, they actually agree to make this a conditional conviction under the party's agreement. Just like these and similar situations, the convention will fight them explicitly, and such alternative ways of solving problems in such cases will explicitly state the conventions as well as in the right way, in fact, edit them. Therefore, according to the 2016 DORH report, it is said that in fact a small number of applications for sexual delinquents should primarily be observed through the unprepared nature of the victim's adoption, to file a criminal application despite a diapazon of additional legal provisions defined in Article 45. The law on criminal proceedings. Why the Istanbul Convention? It is necessary, therefore, that the Convention in the field of sexual delicacies, through recommendations, specifically speaks of increasing services and services for persons who have survived sexual violence. The Istanbul Convention is, in fact, in a comprehensive way and for the first time recognises sexual violence and defines it through its phenomena and highlights the necessity of victim safety and the fact that it is important for victims to have access to specialised support services. We in the Republic of Croatia have only one such centre, and we're about to have them, not roughly but precisely, we should have 11 of them, so I'm not talking about safe houses, I'm talking about centres that help victims of sexual violence. The Istanbul Convention speaks very precisely of sexual harassment, which is therefore a very widespread form in which in some ways it is lurks to a good extent, as in the form of violence that should be sanctioned by criminal or other legal sanctions. Current practice in the Republic of Croatia is sexual harassment is not prosecuted by official duty, but by proposal, and such cases especially if violence occurs within the framework of the workplace, so they regularly end up unfavourable for the victim. One of the reasons why, I will return to why victims do not report sexual violence is the practice so far that the victim is also questioned by the circumstances of his life and behavior as well as something relevant to rape as a criminal offence, and the Istanbul Convention explicitly determines that the behaviour and previous life of the victim will not be questioned. It is clear that the perpetrator is responsible for rape in any context and that there is no such thing as rape. easy circumstances that would reduce or undo his responsibility. The Istanbul Convention also clearly defines that rape is committed in marriage or partnership equal to any other rape and falls under sexual violence. So it's clear that it can't be something that's a private matter, but it has to become a public matter that must actually be spoken out loud and clear. Furthermore, the Istanbul Convention indicates the need and obligation of the perpetrator's psychosocial treatment during which he would accept responsibility for his actions. What is still to be pointed out is the femicid and the defeating data of the MUP from 2012 to 2017 in Croatia was 90 women killed by their spouses, partners, former spouses or close persons. I just want to point out one more situation that I came across by asking questions about the effects of the Istanbul Convention and some of the results following the existence of a time distance in BiH and the Republic of Croatia, speaking with some associations, I asked them what really changed, is there progress? The answer was devastating in some way, they told me there was no progress, the number of victims of violence increased. I asked how is that possible, how is that possible? They told me so because this time violence is reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78875	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us. Several of these weeks have been wondering what is happening to our citizens, which is in the Istanbul Convention that it has occupied so much attention, and that they are the other most important problems of society, economically, demographically thrown not into the second but third plan? Indeed, at first I will say, it is true that the Istanbul Convention will not achieve what is most often mentioned, it is the protection of women from violence, but it is primarily ideological food for the two largest parties so that this particularly now HDZ with its coalition, to remain and remain in power. This is a key reason and I am telling all women in Croatia that this is a key reason, not to be protected above all. But what do we see? Step by step, part by part of the ruling structure is increasingly cutting off from Croatia's national and state sovereignty. An example is the Istanbul Convention. By ruling, they are unable to protect women and families from violence against our laws and institutions. The Istanbul Convention has become another means of division in our society and you can see the divisions. Only on these ideological issues, and those who talk about gender ideology, so gentlemen here are building ideology, this is ideology, creating a fake picture of something that is going to be achieved. At that time, the economy, the shipbuilding. You see, shipbuilding has been taken over by people who have no idea or experience about it. Petrochemy collapses, viaduct, Agrokor, people keep moving out, demographic decline is worrying. None of these topics have been discussed here in the Assembly, but for these problems that I have cited, there must be a solution, and they are not, because the government's management potential is far below the problems to be dealt with. That is why ideological issues are always welcome to remain in power or to come to power, and so is the Istanbul Convention. Let's be honest and open, we all know how to read, we don't need anyone to translate. Well, the Istanbul Convention is a real problem for the ship, and that's not a question. But what's the problem? The problem is that the president of the Croatian government first assures members of his party and the public that it is not there because they are all illiterate. He also doesn't tell the truth when he says that the interpretative statement is a patch to this document, he said it eliminates all fears. But look, look at the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts, there's an interpretative statement that means nothing, it's a unilateral move that means nothing in an international contract. It can only be a short-term camel. So why manipulations related to this Istanbul Convention, interpretative statements, etc.? Party Change Croatia is a sovereign party, we understand and globalism and we want to work with the world. We cannot shut Croatia into any wires, borders, but we strongly advocate protection against violence both women and families and all weaker and threatened in Croatian society. Unfortunately, no international convention, charters, declarations before or after will solve the problem of violence in itself if we do not deal hard with it and deal with it at national level. The problem is in political structures and justice that does not function decisively and quickly and sanction and prevents such violence. Party Change Croatia requires zero tolerance for violence against women and families, improvement, and especially strict law enforcement, I stress, strict law enforcement because there is a key problem. My people, so here the people of the Parliament have chosen us as advocates to arrange their own state, to make everyone feel safe and free, and now this task of protecting our wives and family wants to be transferred to someone else at international level. If we are not able to secure such a situation here, protect women and families, so let's pick up the suitcases and we need to get out of politics as soon as possible. Where is the end of jeopardizing our sovereignty of the gentlemen, the service and the transfer of responsibility to others, so...? The party Let's change Croatia for the reason that the Istanbul Convention is primarily a means of division, the identification of Croatian society will not participate, it will not support it because it is ideological food, the left attacking the right, the right attacking the left. It has now become clear that the Istanbul Convention has become one of the important issues of testing preparedness for a large coalition of HDZ and SDP, it is quite clear. To whom it has not been clear to this day, it will be clear to him. In politics, as you know, the most important thing is to have an attitude and be honest. In a time of modern technology when people quickly come to the information everyone will eventually check what anyone was saying. So let's stop manipulation, investment, deception and finally deal with the real problems in our society. Now let me tell you why the party Change Croatia supported this point on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament. Why? So let's get the cuffs out of their dens and see who's who. So look at the HDZ that says it's a national democratic party, so now look at the citizens who are there, say, a Christian. And look at the SDP they could adopt the convention a few years ago, now suddenly they're coming at it now is the most important thing. Well, it's all clear here, so it's all clear. But let me ask you something else important, is today a woman just threatened by physical violence? It's not. Women in Croatia, as never before threatened at work, are discriminated against, especially if they have one child, more children especially, have to work on Sundays etc. A particularly endangered woman as a mother. All these forms of endangerment have been created by you gentlemen who have led the state over the past 20 years, you have killed more women because they are today, done, blocked and poverty than they have suffered by physical violence. In addition to protecting against physical violence party Change Croatia will protect the dignity of women as workers and mothers when we come to power. And finally to conclude. We are sick of fighting, division, emigration and poverty, Croatia needs new people, newer politicians who will not share this ideology in order to throw everything else aside, but we need new politicians who will gather Croatian people and fight for the interests of women against domestic violence and for Croatian national interests and believe more in their own country, their laws and what is particularly important to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78877	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78878	Thank you very much, Vice President. Professor Lovrinović, you have said several times that this agreement, which we have on the agenda, endangers Croatian sovereignty. You're a professor, a professor of economics, and you know how much international speeches are made in the area of economics, for example. For every international contract, you can thus say that it endangers the sovereignty of a country. But you should know that you enter your sovereignty into that contract, first through negotiations on that contract, and then through the possibility of signing or not signing as well as ratification and non-ratification. You build your sovereign will into that contract, and no one imposes it on you, no one twists your hand, no one threatens you with sanctions or gives you God by aggression unless you accept that international treaty. So it's a manipulation that you said, and I think we should pull it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78879	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78880	Well, dear colleague Klisovic, obviously we understand differently the concept of sovereignty in the context of globalisation. So we in this House don't even talk about what's going on in the EU, what's going on in America, Russia, China. So look how the world has changed over the past half of the year especially, dramatically. So whatever we want, where we want to go if we don't know, if we don't have goals. What we should still, which we still need, means this is an approach, a functional EU approach, selectively means that certain parts of sovereignty are being abandoned. Yeah? So should our prime minister have gone to the Ukrainian border to show the muscles there to the Russians, instead of the French and the Germans, for instance. Who's he courting? Why doesn't he defend Croatia's interests like that? So when we talk about sovereignism I repeat I do not want Croatia to be fenced But it's clear what he's saying. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78881	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78882	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Lovrinović, you've really broken up in your discussion of everything and everything so I don't understand what your message should have been. Then you could at least say in the end whether you were for the Istanbul Convention or not? So this isn't an ideological topic. This is a topic of the protection of women, protection of families, protection of women from violence against family, and this is a key topic to show that we here in this assembly and you are calling us to have an attitude and to be honest. Here's the SDP we honestly say that we are fighting for the Istanbul Convention because it will mean more protection of women from violence and domestic violence. That's why we're fighting, and that's the only point of today's debate in the House, and what you're talking about is everything and nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78883	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78884	Dear counterpart Jovanovic sees you have a long internship, endlessly in politics, that you like to judge others. So don't judge others so you won't be judged. This is the Parliament, everyone here can say what they thinks, but you rise up behind all of it, you do the doctoring, and you give lectures. Right? But I repeat what I've said over the past twenty years, and you're a participant. You created the less visible violence against women in Croatia and it cannot be washed, although you would like to do so with yes and no, so you learned to work. But that's no way to go, gentlemen. It's time for some new people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78885	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague of Lovrinovic's about an hour, an hour and a half ago, I tried to get an answer from my colleague Zekanovic on the question of what is gender ideology. You have seen neither me nor my colleagues who have asked the same question after me have received an answer. And like your colleagues, Zekanovic, whom you were extremely similar in your act and you have repeatedly called for gender ideology. But to me as a notorious ignorant, it's still not clear what this gender ideology is, so now that you're calling on this gender ideology, when you're using it as an argument that prevents you from raising your hand to ratify a document that fights violence against women, you're teaching us all here, I won't be angry if you're telling us what this gender ideology is. Here's a very simple question, a request, I plead to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78887	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78888	If you haven't cleared up by now that ideology is generally regardless of what happened to this or that, then in a minute don't expect me to lecture you here. You're a young man politician. Unfortunately, I think you've come too young in the ambience where ideology was created in various segments, and apparently that virus has all taken hold of it. In this context, I have no intention of dealing with ideology, explaining these things, but at all I want to draw attention to the fact that this society needs to be deideologied and turned around, not paper-protected women, but really protected them, and I've counted exactly what needs to be done. So we will not feed each other with ideology but with concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78889	Thank you. The next debate is that of the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78890	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The SNAGA party conducted a legal and sociological debate on the Convention, it was read until the end and comments were read and the SNAGA party found no legal problem in the Convention and the SNAGA party found no sociological problem, which is why I would not vote in favour of the Convention. So, I'll vote for the convention. Well, since it's a little bit of an argument to what I'm saying, I'm going to call on some parts of the convention, which some of them here in the assembly are controversial, so let's go from clue to clue. Rod is the main concept that is controversial, people who oppose the convention, MPs who oppose the convention. What's a stork? It says, the stork marks socially shaped roles, behaviors, activities, qualities that a particular society considers appropriate for women and men. So, we all know what we are by sex, but society still conditiones some roles in women and men. There are no roles for women and men, except for those that are biological, woman of birth, a man cannot bear, it's biological. But what's sociologically seen, stork, it doesn't actually exist, because a man can cook, a man can raise a child while a woman goes to work, a man can take maternity leave, a woman can play football, a woman can be a boxer. So these roles are gone. It's the past, it's over. There is only a woman's biological role to give birth to a man's biological role to participate in the creation of a child. Furthermore, gender-founded violence against women marks violence directed at women, because she is a woman or who is disproportionately affected by women. I'll caricate what it might be. I believe that gender-founded violence against a woman, violence that can happen when a man and a woman marry, and now a man expects a woman, that she irons, cooks, washes, that she herself raises a child and that a man goes around outside, landras, cubes, and destroys a family. So if a woman has to do all this and suffer this male violence, then it's gender-founded violence and I certainly don't see anything controversial to prevent it. Article 4 of the Convention will ensure that the provisions of this Convention are implemented in particular for the rights of victims without discrimination on any axis, such as sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, and now the problem of sexual orientation is happening, imagine, someone may be gay or bisexual. Someone doesn't feel well in his body, he's a man, biologically, but he feels like he's a woman, because it just happened to him in his head because someone who believes in God thinks that God is perfect, however, that God who may be someone else's natural isn't perfect. It's not perfect, it's just nothing's perfect. So there's a mistake, it's not a mistake, it just happens in creating a man, that you disrupt things in his system, and then he's just not a man, although he has all those characteristics that a man should have. So he feels bad about his sex and that man needs to change sex, he's actually a woman. What's the problem with that? Such people, or vice versa, a woman feels like a man. And that convention protects people like that. What's the matter with that? Such people may have 100, 200, 300 in the Republic, who's afraid of that? Well, it's not a virosis, it's not a transient disease. If someone's bisexual or homosexual, it's not even a transient disease. It's not my people's virus. That's what a man's born with. It can't be transmitted by air. I remember when I was a little boy five years old, I was already watching women under the table, when my mother was talking to her neighbors about the table, I was playing under the table, and I was looking at women under my skirt, when I was five already. No one could convince me that I was gay, because I was a real man in a heterosexual sense. So there's no way it can be transmitted by air. The one who thinks it's being transmitted by air, the one who's struggling with the grandmother's horn. And this convention is actually for these people, grandma horns. Instead of fighting monsters, I said, "Who are monsters?" Monsters are banks. And all of you who are part of the government, instead of truly fighting monsters that are banks, these monsters have taken to Croatian citizens, already some 20 billion kunas on the currency clause and at the interest rate, which is illegal, instead of fighting that monster, you're fighting the grandmother horn. Fight something that's abstract. Because you're listening to some authority that's false authority. Well, then some of them honor me, and I'm going to go a little bit and a little bit, some of them honor me, how I can be, and I am, and I claim that I am a Christian, a Catholic, agnostic. How can you be a Catholic, so you're agnostic, you're a Christian and you're agnostic, it's possible. I was baptized in '65. Mr. I've never been a member of the Communist Party, I've never, three times turned it down and that's not why I got hurt. That's never why I got hurt. And how can I be a Christian then agnostic? By imagining myself, I'll say that I'm imagining myself, I'll say that I'm imagining myself, I can't claim to follow the path of Jesus Christ, and that's why I'm a Christian. Because being a Christian means being on the path of Jesus Christ, it does not mean being on the path of a Roman but being on the path of Jesus Christ. And I choose what is the way of Jesus Christ and I believe that Jesus Christ is my brother and that my brother would confirm this convention. He would have confirmed this convention. Why? Because he's not someone who can convict anyone for anything. And this convention right now allows people who are different, except that it protects women, that's true, but yet here is an awkward ideology, rather than the protection of families of people who are different who need to be protected and taught young people that there are people who are different, who are very few, that we need to protect, that we need to protect. I don't see any problem with that. Why would that be a problem? There really are people who are different and this convention protects them on paper. Whether it will protect them in reality, it is a big issue because we often step on paper, as we still have the judgment of the power of power since 13 June 2014, in which it is clearly said that banks are illegally operating, but after that, no one is doing anything to prevent banks from doing any further illegal business. So the paper suffers everything from us. Let us all ask ourselves how sincere we are to ourselves, how sincere we are to the people we represent, how sincere we are to the citizens we represent, how truly we represent their interests. Let's all ask ourselves, and let's start fighting those things and those things that stop the development of the Republic of Croatia, which, because of what exists, make it possible for people to leave the Republic of Croatia. This Convention should be voted upon and we should continue to fight monsters, not grandma-horns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78891	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78892	Dear colleague Alexic. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, you say that some commitment, some proclivities defined by sexuality, any male, any woman is not a transitional disease, and I agree with you. But someone's commitment and use of violence and authority to come and satisfy their proclivities, including sex, is sexual, and can be transitional. Whether it was used by a friar, whether it was used by the director, whether it was used by a teacher at school. And that's what we're talking about and we need to talk about. No one should be prevented, restricted in his definition, but one should prevent what is done behind hidden doors behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78893	The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78894	Thank you. Yeah, it's true. What affects children are parents in the first place. What they do is called learned behavior. We are determined by what we experience by the age of six, seven. As our mother and father behave in the family, so will we treat society around us. If the mother beats the father or father beats the mother, anything is possible, it will happen with the child. So the family is the fundamental value where the child will acquire his future behavior. Nothing but family. All right, society's going on, too, a little bit. But mother's behavior towards father and father marks our future, and my role models are my father and my mother, no other authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78895	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78896	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll start my debate with one number, and that's 215 grand. The figure identifying the number of crimes against sexual freedom with the characteristics of violence reported in the EU in 2015. So, 215 grand. There were so many victims of crimes that they committed against them. 80,000 were rape crimes. Only in a year. 90% of the victims of these crimes were women, with this figure still being taken with one reserve, and this reserve stems from the fact that there are still a large number of victims in today's society that have not been reported by crime. Unfortunately, they are not reported for fear, because of the fear that the environment in which they live and that the environment is more traditional, this fear is greater, that the environment in which they live will reject them because unfortunately today in the 21st century we have witnessed that the center of the victim treats them in a much worse way than the perpetrators of crimes, especially crimes against sexual freedom. That's a fact. And already this information should be enough for each of us to vote on Friday for ratification of the Istanbul Convention. An international document that fights precisely these events that I've been talking about. Who fights exactly these acts. However, this information is not enough. There are those who find something else in this Convention and we still have to talk today about what this Convention means, and what this Convention does not mean. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we still have to talk about the fact that this Convention has in it exclusively and only provisions relating to the prevention of violence, relating to the support of victims, which relate to the issue of limitation, which concerns the issue of jurisdiction, but also to provisions that require it to be international rather than domestic legal act, because we are trying to extend it to a much larger circle than, that is, to a much larger area than Croatia alone, it also contains provisions on the prohibition of such practices as genital mutilation, forced abortion, forced sterilisation or forced marriage. This convention speaks of it. This Convention extends such practice to the area from the Azores to Kamchatka, to Vladivostok. That's why it's international. In order for the circle of those who have protection that is in some countries of norm, some still need to be explained and introduced, in order to expand that protection. Today I tried to find out from a few colleagues, which is gender ideology, the answer I didn't get, but what I do know is that based on my own study, I haven't been able to find any fact, any evidence that would convince me that such ideology, gender ideology exists. And that's why this convention can't even talk about her. Unfortunately, this gender ideology will still be through art. 4. The ratification law enters the Croatian legal system. Now I have to say, when we're discussing this convention and some things that I'm sorry about. And we have to talk about it, especially us from the SDP, we have to say that we must be sorry for the fact that despite the fact that, in our time, this Convention has been signed, despite the fact that at a time when we had the responsibility and had the honor of exercising power in the Republic of Croatia, this Convention has not been ratified, even though much has been incorporated into our national legal order. We have made a mistake and that is why we must apologize even though such an apology for the withdrawal and for everything is not worth much, but I will apologize now and Friday voting for the ratification of this Convention. However, another mistake stemming from such a failure is another thing that I am sorry for, which is the fact that some of us today have had the opportunity to listen to some of them, such as counterpart Zekanovic, shamefully used an international document aimed only at fighting violence against women, to talk about something else and to create that ideology and those divisions that my colleague Lovrinovic was talking about is probably unaware that he is the one who shares society on something that is not an ideological issue because fighting violence is not a question of any ideology and there is no right to either left or right because it is a question of fighting violence that is a question of relations with civilization. It's a civilization issue. And I'm glad that in the Republic of Croatia at least once, at least from time to time, we can reach an agreement and that's good. Some, however, abuse it. Some use this to release a variety of stories and scare citizens and citizens of Croatia. We've never heard of gender ideology before, I guess we'll have a chance. One of the organizations that I think were wrong is the Catholic Church in the Republic of Croatia, which is particularly surprising, and I'll tell you why. In 2014, on 1 August, therefore, on the day this Convention came into force after the ratification of Andorra, Loservatore Romano, the official note of the Vatican, the Holy See officially welcomed the entry into force of the Istanbul Convention of Words, now the Istanbul Convention is a step forward in the fight for women's rights. Locator Romano, Vatican, Holy chair. Step forward in the fight for women's rights four years ago. Now I ask someone to explain to me why what was a step forward for the Catholic Church in 2014, today is no longer, but I'm afraid no one can explain it to me and I'm sorry, I'm extremely sorry. I will end this with the reasons why I will vote for this Convention on Friday, but unfortunately, I also have to talk about something that is not in the Ratification Act, not in the Convention, only in the Ratification Act, which I do not support. That's an art. 4. Unnecessary, excessive, guilty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal It is what it is, it will exist precisely in its content, whatever it is written to me in Article 4, and that is why the Club of Representatives of the SDP today submitted an amendment proposing to delete this article. He's unnecessary. He does not mean anything to the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. However, it will create a problem because it is the team of Article 4 of the Croatian legal order that enters the term of gender ideology, without even trying to explain what it means. Well, we can't do that because gender ideology doesn't exist, because gender ideology doesn't exist. In fact, I may be wrong because yet there is one ideology highly represented in many societies, including in Croatian, which could be called gender ideology, and this ideology, it is the patriarchate of colleagues and colleagues. The only gender ideology that can be spoken of is the patriarchate, which is the gender ideology that we all have to fight together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78897	Thank you. We have two replicas. She is one of the respected representatives of Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78898	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, at the beginning of the exhibition you introduced us to the numbers of violence against women at EU level. You also mentioned cases of rape, or sexual intercourse without consent. I don't know if you know what the data is for the Republic of Croatia, but here, I have that data for 2017. The sexual relationship without consent, 33 reported cases, the rape of 25 reported cases, and these numbers show exactly what you're saying is pressure on a woman not to report abuse because she'll be demonized as a victim and that's the social role that's being asked of a woman, which we're opposed to. Can't be a woman because a woman is in a position of subjugation to a man. That's what we call gender equality, and you can't justify it, so that's how it's married, as our minister said. We just don't agree to that. It can't be like that either in marriage or out of marriage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78899	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78900	My colleague Klisovic, the data I called for, is Eurostat data. According to these data, the largest number of rapes among EU member states is in Sweden and England. And now I ask you, is it vital that in Sweden or England a few dozen times more rapes, of course, are proportional than in Croatia. Whether our society has made so much progress in relation to England or Sweden, that our citizens are aware, that they must not commit such crimes, I'm afraid not. And that's why, I was talking about, there's a serious problem, and this problem is being trained by the Istanbul Convention, a serious problem of victims, who don't report violence, which has happened to them because of the fear of Stigma, the environment, that they're going to experience. And that is why we need to ratify this convention, and that is why we need to invest those resources that some of them are afraid of, which are very much needed, because we are going to help our fellow citizens, and unfortunately, as statistics have shown, most of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78901	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Mira Kovac. Microphone
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78902	... text under heading... [[Specially enabled.]] It's in Italian, so step forward in the protection of women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The text published on 1 August for the entry into force of this Convention, quoting, preferring a statement, Secretary-General, Council of Europe Jagland. They passed on only his attitude, and you pulled out, that person, that's Romano, that's. The Vatican supports the Istanbul Convention. Let's be serious, let's not fall for manipulation, let's be exact. So I repeat, Jagland Thorbjorn, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, has communicated and calls for ratification of the Istanbul Convention, on 1 August, came into force 4 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78903	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78904	Thank you for reminding me of that article one more time. The first sentence in it is... And that text isn't under quotes, it's not listed as a quote from anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those quotes are a little lower in the article. This is the view of the editor, who prepared that title and who published it. The fact is that on 1 August 2014, L'Osservatore Romano said this was a step forward in defending women's rights. Dear colleague, you've been in politics for a long time, also in diplomacy. In 2011, just before that in 4 months, a meeting of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Europe, was held by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, then adopted this text. Nine times before that, the Committee of Experts who was presented to the Republic of Croatia met, why didn't you react then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78905	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it turned out, in the end, that it was actually good that this debate was conducted in this way, that it didn't go all the way under the radar, because they went out of many interesting things and I think that the awareness of the importance of ratification of this Convention, the even greater importance of its application in Croatian society, became much higher and much higher and came to a higher level. One simple thing that changes, for example, this convention. A domestic bully, someone who beats a woman, after the ratification of this convention, is no longer a rat, not a receiver, not some awkward type, but a criminal. And according to our laws, after that ratification, he is tried and tried, as a criminal. It's already in itself a significant shift in the right direction. Another significant shift in the right direction is the fact that knowing the real life, knowing our culture, knowing what's going on, now it won't be necessary for the prosecution to depend only on reporting the victim, but the prosecution for violence continues if the victim withdraws the application. So it goes on and if the victim, such as, very often, exerts pressure on the family, neighbors, people in the workplace, the environment, withdraws that application, gets scared, makes her uncomfortable, is, etc. The prosecution continues. And this gives a very significant and great contribution to the fact that violence against women, violence against children, domestic violence is a public matter. And that may be the key topic of this convention. Here in the debate, it's said that you should throw out what bothers you. Namely, gender ideology, a lot of colleagues have already talked about it. I don't think there's any need to further elaborate this, except for the fact that this could be compared to, say, those who are against racial discrimination are spreading racial ideology. So, if it's a struggle against discrimination in a part of society is some ideology, I've never seen it before, nor heard of such things being called ideology. The second remark that was made was that we could bring such laws ourselves and protect women from violence and prevent domestic violence and not be dictated by someone. It's in my opinion one basic argument against multilateralism, against multilateral organisations. Why do they exist? So that some civilization standards become common. I don't want anyone to fight me sovereignly because sovereignly in my country can do it, and sovereignly in Sweden can't. I want those standards and our people are right, our children and women have the right to higher standards. And not the sovereign right that as part of our culture someone beats up their own or another woman so much. And that idea that you can beat a woman and practice it doesn't come from the fact that a woman is weaker. Many women are stronger than many men. It comes from social roles, which is gender. So this stems from the expectation that a woman is in a position where she has to suffer it. And very often you have cases of a much weaker man killing a much stronger woman who could beat up like a cat but doesn't do it because it's in that syndrome what's the role of a man and what's the role of a woman, she's in that position to be beaten. Thus, it is in itself saying that society constructs certain roles. If you compare Saudi Arabia and Norway, you will immediately see how a society in Saudi Arabia defines the role of a woman and a man, very different from what it does in Norway, therefore there is a certain social structure. Before my time runs out, let me say what I think is the essence of the debate over this convention. I don't think it's related, I don't think it's a rebellion against something called gender ideology here, I think it's really one fundamental difference in two perverse attitudes. One who believes that violence against women and domestic violence is a private matter and that it should be locked behind the door of the apartment and the house where people live and that people within the family must deal with it alone. And the second attitude that I represent, which represents GLAS, which also represents this convention of happiness, which seems to represent the majority of the citizens in this House, is that it is not a private matter, that no matter who beats you and no matter who commits violence, violence is violence. It is a public matter, and it is the task of the state and society to prevent it from teaching children to give it unacceptable, to spread awareness of, that everyone who engages in this as a criminal, and let us not be deceived, such topics as a major debate on gender ideology, there is a serious problem in Croatian society that there is one segment of this society that really thinks that violence against women and domestic violence is something that you should be tempted about. And you need to sit at home and put up with it and deal with it inside those four walls. The debates that were held are also largely tied to this convention, are discussions about power or power relations in Croatian society. The Catholic Church is a great organization, it has much like in every large organization of various people, smart people, enlightened people, but unfortunately this convention has been spoken of by those who through this measure of strength with the state. Who's stronger here? Does a state with democratic institutions have the right to make decisions or should it fear someone else? And from that point of view, it is very important that the people chosen to represent the citizens here stand strongly in defense of the institutions of the state which I do not think is a negligible issue. In the end, MP Hasanbegovic said at the end of his debate that we would not be led by some B.A.B.E. policy. And I still don't know who else. Well, that's basically opposition to the Istanbul Convention. Well, he wants to run some B.A.B.E., he's gonna run this B.A.B.E. policy. along with some grandfathers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78907	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78908	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Pusic, you mentioned well, and that is definitely true, this convention that I believe will be ratified on Friday, for which we will raise our hand means that the state also takes on a greater role and responsibility in preventing violence against women. You also mentioned in this statistics that says that actually women very little report violence. All research shows that they are not reported for fear of perpetrators, due to lengthy court proceedings, because of mistrust in competent institutions, fear that no one will believe them, fear that they will be blamed for experienced experience, guilt and responsibility. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78909	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78910	Thank you very much. So it is known to everyone, for this it should not be a sociologist, nor a politician, nor should it simply live in any society and especially in Croatian society. There are a number of films, books of fine literature, that I don't speak sociological studies that show the same and the same that the middle is pressing, it's simply a tradition, one of the reasons why it's important to be members of multilateral organizations is precisely so that we don't sovereignly beat our own wives. So it's important that it gets this public dimension and it gets persecuted by official duty, it makes a huge difference and it's good that you're undermining it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78911	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78912	Thank you very much. Comrade Pusic, you were elected on the National Coalition list and in the elections you had an obligation to be 40% of women. You, as a promoter of protection and this convention, were not meant to be on 6 lists a satisfactory number of women. So, can you explain why it was? You were the so-called Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, you did not bring up this Istanbul Convention which will solve all women's problems in the Republic of Croatia because the Croatian state has no power to do so. And when the Deputy Prime Minister says that, then you know how you led this country. First of all, you're a promoter, an inequality of women because you were on a list where there weren't women, I was on a list where there were enough women and more and I'm proud of it. So demagogy that a sovereign state cannot protect a woman, that we must have a directive and a dictatorship is an absolute lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78913	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78914	Thank you very much. I can't decide who's gonna put the other parties on the list. My party at the time had more than 40% of women among the candidates on the lists, and that's all I can answer for, I can't answer for any other party, for my own. And mine had this, meeting that condition today, as you can see from the four representatives of my party 3 are women. As for the ratification of the convention, I thought absolutely necessary, we proposed to coalition partners for various reasons that I had already presented in public. At the time, Croatia was in the position of an excessive deficit programme, these arguments were used, to me neither today nor today they are not acceptable but it is simply the result of the coalition's functioning. But that's when I stood up for ratification. And as for the real woman, I started it probably when you were a little kid.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78915	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78916	Dear MP Pusic, I answered the replica because you were also Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, so you are addressed to international relations, international documents. You were talking about the importance of ratification, I'd like to talk about the importance of implementation. I was in the Croatian National Archives last Friday at an event organised by our colleague Kajtazi, World Roma Day, where everyone talked about the importance of respect for minority rights to high standards. There were representatives and Presidents of the Parliament and Prime Minister and President of the Republic of Croatia. One of these standards is also the ratification of the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages, which was ratified in '97. But then unfortunately, a reserve was made that it would not be applied to those territorial languages, and that includes the Roma language, and we actually have a 20-year reserve in the Roma language. I talked to some diplomats who said we had to take it off and we made a promise but today we didn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78917	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78918	I agree, and in this regard I also supported the introduction of a Roma language programme at our Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78919	The next debate will be her respected representative, Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78920	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The fight against violence, especially the fight against violence against women, is a topic that must unite us all in Croatia. The problem is real, it is not made up, it is necessary that after this debate and after voting on Friday, no matter how we vote individually, we continue, we show all of us, the political will to give genuine support to the competent institutions, raise the world in society and do everything in our power to combat violence against women and girls. I believe all the MPs and all the MPs in this House are against violence. There are, however, differences on the assessment of this Convention. Istanbul Conventions. We must speak openly, without pressure, without demeaning, but knowingly and truthfully. It should therefore be stressed that the opposition concerns not the issue of fighting violence but the concepts of gender theory. For those who are in favour of or against the Istanbul Convention but who, above all, want to speak to the Croatian public, it is quite clear that the convention is based on birth theory. Moreover, the advocates of the convention consider it necessary to define gender-separated gender as an effective fight against violence. For them, such understanding of gender and gender identity is of fundamental importance and an essential part of this Convention. This was confirmed by the Council of Europe's legal services itself in a document recently declassified. Indeed, the legal service of the Council of Europe rightly found that this is exactly the kind of understanding of gender as different, but also gender-separated, i.e. separate from the biological facts on which the Istanbul Convention is based. That is why, for those of us who believe that gender is a concept that cannot be separated from sex, it can be different, but not separated from sex, apart from biological facts, from nature, we have nothing left but to vote against ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Therefore, the definitions set out in Articles 3 and 4 are essential for the implementation of the entire Convention. These concepts cannot be interpreted differently in the implementation of the Istanbul Convention at national level. The interventions are really two different understandings of man. For the Istanbul Convention, it is those who believe that man has absolute autonomy, that he defines himself, regardless of the biological facts. As stated in paragraph 53 of the Istanbul Convention’s Explanatory Report, this means that a male person can define himself as a female. If, however, you believe that a man is born free and that freedom is achieved in accordance with biological facts, not against them, then you will be against ratification of the Istanbul Convention. So it is not a problem to mention the word storks, nor to interpret that the roles of women and men have changed throughout history, or that they are different in different societies, the problem is that in the Istanbul Convention, unlike other international documents, the gender is separated from sex, from biology, from nature. Mostly supporters of various ideologies have a view of man, and then society, which doesn't care about natural law, of course order, and then neither about biological facts. If the facts don't agree with their ideological postulates, that's worse by the fact. It's a typical ideological approach. It's an approach to such a birth theory, it's an approach to the Istanbul Convention. On the contrary, it is classical thinking that respects the natural order and believes that human laws must comply with natural law rather than go against it. It is true that Christianity has accepted such thinking, but it exists before Christianity and beyond Christianity, for example. Ciceron speaks of a natural law that is present in all peoples, in all nations, it is the same in Rome as in Athens, it is the same law today and tomorrow, and ignoring the natural law says Ciceron, is the same as to despise human nature. So they're not the words of a theologian, a pope, even though the pope will agree with it, even Pope Francis, but it's actually classical thinking. So it's not religious dogma, it's reason, from Cicero to today. counterparts and colleagues, accompanied by an interpretative statement, do not dispute the understanding of gender-separated gender, the statement does not remove the dispute over the Istanbul Convention, it is true that the statement mentions that gender-separated ideology will not be implemented, but it is not said that neither birth theory will be implemented in terms of gender-separated concept. It would already make more sense, but instead it's about gender ideology, which the Istanbul Convention itself, says it doesn't exist, that birth theory is science, not ideology. So, since supporters of the Istanbul Convention believe that gender ideology does not exist, nothing is achieved with a sentence that says they will not implement what they themselves say does not exist, it is absurd. Therefore, the interpretative statement does not eliminate such a concept of race that is contrary to reason and nature and then contrary to the Christian view of man. Even the recently declassified opinion of the legal service of the Council of Europe does not change anything, on the contrary, the legal service confirms that the genus must be interpreted as something separate from the sex, i.e. apart from nature, from biological facts. And it confirms that it can't possibly be changed by any subsequent interpretations. And then all of this has to go to school, to sports institutions, to Croatian society. My colleagues and colleagues, I have not heard today a single argument denying that the Istanbul Convention does not adopt an international obligation to separate the understanding of gender from biological facts. The international obligation to form social norms is, of course, possible for some time to delay the fulfilment of these international obligations from political considerations, but this does not mean that international obligations are gone and that they will not be required to implement them fully. They're not fears, they're facts. Based on these facts, we can decide to be in favour or against ratification of the Istanbul Convention, but let's not close our eyes to facts. I respect each and every one of you, and I respect you, and I will always fight for those who have a different worldview than I do, a different view of man and society have the right to say it publicly without being Satanized for it. But then I also demand that Croatian people who oppose the Istanbul Convention should not be stigmatized. And when there's a vote Friday, don't ask the MPs, don't ask me not to follow my conscience. I'm not saying this from a position of power or high. I don't judge anyone because of his attitude, I don't imagine I'm some kind of moral authority, no. I am well aware that I am imperfect, if you want a sinful man. But I'm aware of that because I have a conscience and that's why I don't want anyone, but I'm not letting anyone take that freedom of conscience away from me. Because that's the only way I can be and remain a free man, and only a free man can lift his head up, eyes in the eyes of his people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78921	Thank you. We have, unfortunately some of them are late, but we still have a whole series of replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, what you said is absolutely correct. It is your duty, it is your duty, and it is your responsibility to vote by your conscience and by your belief, and therefore you should be appreciated, by the fact that in much of what you have said I do not agree with you, but that is why we are here and therefore there is a parliament and therefore there is democracy that everyone, even if symbolically on your side of the assembly, may speak differently. And I appreciate you more than any of the colleagues I've replicated before you, so I'm not going to ask you if you know what gender ideology is, to define me because I'm sure, even though I won't agree with your answer again that you know exactly what we're talking about. But I'll ask you something else. And I'm going to ask you that precisely because you're principled. Why didn't you react when you were special advisor to the Prime Minister and when the Republic of Croatia actively participated in the preparation of this document that you are now opposed to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78923	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78924	Thank you for that, for one and the other. And the one you don't want to set up, but you've set it up multiple times and which, in fact, should torture you because you know that your amendment won't pass. You will again raise your hand for a text mentioning gender ideology, and you say you don't know what it is. So you'll raise your hand for something you don't know what it is. You have about it from Simone de Beauvoir who said, no one is born as a woman but becomes a woman. So you have various definitions, but you've been looking for those definitions before. We can talk about it, but I absolutely think in this debate I've explained what the problem is. Not that gender and sex are different concepts, because they are also sociology is talking about it, but when they are separated. So, when the gender is not protruded, that is, on that biological fact, of course, it's different. You don't even know what I didn't or did tell the Prime Minister, but you can certainly ask her about these secular issues, [[Intruder Rainer: Thank you.]] We talked a lot, but I wasn't in charge back then. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78925	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78926	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Stier, you have often been perceived in public as, let's say, a hard conservative politician and in some political respects and in some of your political decisions, you have been too exclusive to me, but you have the right to do so and that is your opinion and your exposure has gone in the direction of certain freedoms, parliamentaryism, and it is constructive and I appreciate it. However, there is one principle that is very important, which is the principle of separation of the church from the state. Maximus pontifex on the lat. means the one who builds bridges. I hope, Mr. Stier, that certain church structures don't build bridges in both HDZ and so in the future in power where the church would assume state authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78927	Thank you. My colleague Stier's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78928	Thank you for that question. You know, it's precisely thanks, if you will, and to Christianity we've come to this concept of separation of church and state and that's not questionable. For a Christian Democrats, this is not really a question. I have today, and in this presentation, if you have heard carefully, based my discussion not on any dogma, I have even explicitly told me, as far as I am concerned, it is my conscience that will dictate to me, not a statement. I'm not saying I don't respect the church's position, but it's my conscience that dictates to me what I'm going to do. Christian democracy respects plural society, but it also enters the plural society with clear attitudes. It's not to be exclusive, it means to have clear opinions, but to be open and respected and different opinions. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78929	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stier. We're talking about the metrics. So when you're talking about the course of order, you're implying and you're not, you're implying inseparability from biological facts. I mean, what it is, what we consider a biological fact is the subject of social interpretation. So our perception of what we think is reality is socially constructed. In that sense, the idea that, I mean, this natural order is actually a social concept that combines some ideas about the world, so that's also ideology, which means that gender roles are attributed strictly to men and women, when there's a violation of that, there's some sort of social sanctions, no. So it's a birth ideology couple excelence such a view of the world. And finally, Cicero, an excellent speaker, I love him, but, you know, in his day, they believed that by tranching a bird's liver, they could predict the future. I mean, not everything from that time on. We've made progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78931	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78932	You see, as far as the law is concerned, as far as accepting biological facts is concerned, there's no real dispute. Biologists, scientists will even tell you that even in this Istanbul Convention, it is not disputed that it is gender-determined by biology. And I don't have any problem with saying there's a concept of gender that's different from gender. My grandmother, for example. She graduated from the economy at a time when no one in that generation probably graduated from women, but today it's a frequency. So the stakes changed. The problem is that it's not just about saying that gender is different from sex, but that it's separate, so the roles have changed, and that doesn't mean that it's my grandmother because she was born biologically, naturally, as a woman, then her identity is still as a relative regardless of all those roles and even when she graduated when no one else graduated she was still a woman. You understand that difference, so the thing is not that there are different concepts The problem is when she says they're separated, when nature is not accepted. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78933	Thank you, Comrade Stier. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78934	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stier, I have listened with interest to your debate, I appreciate your opinion and, of course, I absolutely support your freedom of conscience. I have listened with interest to your discussion for the simple reason that in Croatia the last months when it comes to the Istanbul Convention have been given an incredible amount of nonsense and misinformation, which is why focus with the prevention of violence against women has been moved in the convention without the existing concept of gender ideology. So I wanted to hear from you to tell us where this phantom gender ideology is in this convention. The only thing it says and that's what you said, Article 3. "The gender marks socially shaped roles, behaviours, activities and characteristics that a particular society considers appropriate for women and men", that is all gender ideology that is written in this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78935	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78936	By definition ideologies is when you want not to actually accept reality, reality but to create a new,... a new socialist man etc. And if the facts don't agree with that then that's worse by the facts, so it's ideological. This is where when a gender separate from sex is defined into the field of ideology, that biological givenness is not accepted. And that's what he tells you in this declassified document of the legal service where it's said... /Special speaks English./...so gender and sex as different, but also separate terms... /Special speaking English./...so this is the key thing where the whole structure of the convention is based. That's the ideological approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78937	The next replica is respected MP Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78938	Thank you very much. My colleague Stier, I have a text in front of me, and when you spoke, I found it interesting, finally a little articulated position, and I looked at Article 3 and Article 4 that you referred to and said you didn't hear that it wasn't separate. You haven't heard that it's not separate, because the convention doesn't say anywhere that to what extent the definition of gender-restricting is being defined, it just says that these are two different categories that seem to me and you admit that there are two different categories, but it doesn't say anywhere here whether it's leaning or to what extent. And this is not a philosophical document, this is a document that needs to regulate the reality that exists, and in reality there are people who feel and express themselves in different ways, and this document refers to this rather than a philosophical debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78939	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78940	If, by chance, it is not clear to you from the text of the Convention, that is why you also have from the legal service of the Council of Europe interpretation and this interpretation tells you that they are separated that the race must be interpreted as separate from the sex. If you think that's not enough, you have an explanation report that goes with a convention that you're going to ratify where in point 53 exactly you can see that these are separate concepts because exactly the darkness says that birth identity can be different from sex. So someone who was born for example. A man can be born to be defined as a woman. So I'm not saying that it's a problem for you at all I'm not contesting your right to accept such an interpretation, I'm just saying let's not say it's not in the Istanbul Convention. Based on these facts, someone will decide to, and some will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78941	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78942	Dear fellow Stier. Our program when we went to the elections says that we will adopt the Istanbul Convention pages 93 or four then you knew the same thing, and now I don't understand all of it when you say you can't accept that gender is not the same if in definition it says that gender is exactly what a colleague is and reads therefore socially shaped roles suitable for women and men. In the 21st century, can't we accept that there are some kind of transvestites that are sexual, and by gender they're something else, right? Can't we accept that there are homosexuals as well? I can't read it from this convention so we just can't define it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78943	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78944	Yes, thank you, colleagues. As far as I'm concerned, I can tell you that he's famous. When the amendments on ratification of the Istanbul Convention were also in the European Parliament, I voted against such amendments. It's kind of weird that we're saying in the program that we're going to ratify, and there's no word for ratification in that program. That's a bit of a rough line, obviously, and then we don't even have it in the government program. But what is clear here is that you have introduced a series of elements that are not really part of this, so it's not about homosexuality, about same-sex marriages, it's not about that. It's about whether gender will be treated as something, not equal to sex, I said it's two different concepts, but whether they're separate, whether gender can be developed, and whether it's separate from sex and against sex. There's a fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78945	Thank you. The next replica of respected Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78946	Dear fellow Stier. I must admit that your performance saddened me and your debate because I have seen you as a European and a Christian, because I personally consider the ratification of this convention to be a civil achievement and a civilization act. Because if your exposure is correct, then it is actually an accusation against the Council of Europe, the organisation of the first international organisation established after II. the global war in Europe to promote democracy, protect human rights and strengthen the rule of law. It is an accusation of experts working on the convention, the indictment of the Committee of Ministers which adopted the Convention in 2011, in fact, it is an accusation against all 27 countries that ratified the Convention. Surely you know that natural law is often used in history to justify social injustices. Galileo Galileo waited 360 years to admit the error of legal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78947	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78948	Dear colleague, don't be sad. Don't be sad, though, Europe is pluralism, Europe and those who really understand Europe, and I think I know something about it, and I think I've been doing something about Croatia being a part of the EU, Europe respects diversity, different opinions, and because of its different opinions, there's no need to think right away that we're accusing someone, that we're tearing someone down, no. It's just that we're having an argument, in the spirit of pluralism. This pluralism, I'm sorry that pluralism saddens you, pluralism should be good and it should be good and here is exactly where we have to come out and show you what our thoughts are, but reasoned. I'm trying to do it, don't be sad about it, but be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78949	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stier, you said in your statement that for the first time in Istanbul the concept of gender differs not only for the first time but also for the first time. I just have to remind you that according to Croatian legislation, gender is not already defined by birth, birth is defined by gender, and gender does not have to answer gender, which is why, in at least 10 Croatian laws and sublegal acts, these two concepts are already clearly separated. So men in the Republic of Croatia have been able to plead as women for 15 years. Take the name of the opposite sex, in documents to change the mark of sex, not only in Croatia, but also in the good part of the world. Despite that fact, both of course and women can do it in a different way. Despite that fact, 99% of the Croatian population continue to live in the same gender in which they were born, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78951	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78952	Yes, esteemed colleagues. You didn't hear clearly, I said unlike other international documents, so I was talking about international documents. Because, for example, Here you have maybe you can give a fellow coat of arms who was very interested, I don't need it, but if he needs it, you know and what position, the official position of the Holy Table, if it affects his opinion, not mine, but if it affects him you can give him for example. the official position distributed by the Council in March 2017 to all members of the Council of Europe where it clearly states that the genus is e.g. Used without this gender separation in other international documents, e.g. In a document on the creation of a permanent international criminal court, so I was talking about international documents, and here's only if you caught that part from my presentation, then you'd see that there's really no real concern that you've raised in this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78953	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78954	Dear fellow Stier. In addition to Cicero, I would love to see you look back at Tom Aquinsky and his 3 laws, the eternal law of nature, that is, the natural law and human laws where this great philosopher also speaks of the law of course and the way a man can choose how he will behave in life, according to which it was not only Ciceron who determined. But I would ask you the only thing, here in your discussion, all of your discussion is whether gender and gender are the same or separate, and in your discussion I have not seen anywhere what the measure is, which is why you think this convention should not be supported, which is why you will vote against? Because quite certainly with this definition, without a definition of whether it is in the Istanbul Convention or not, as far as the work is concerned in Croatia is concerned, nothing will happen, but it will happen a lot if this convention is adopted on the issue of violence against women.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78955	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78956	The fact that gender and gender are one and the same, we've already made it clear, but obviously you haven't figured that part out yet. So they're two different ideas. The point is whether gender can be separate and even go against sex, so different from sex, in terms of gender identity. Okay, so we're clear on that. Why does it matter? Well, I didn't say it was important, and that's also the legal service of the Council of Europe in this document that has recently declassified it as a key term so that everything can be further implemented, including, of course, the part concerning education and curricula on education. So these are some things that must be derivated from such a definition that the Council of Europe's legal service itself says it is fundamental and that this whole convention has been built on this basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78957	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78958	My fellow Stier, I rejoiced that some of them were saddened by what you argued, and what you showed the breadth in democracy how to function and what you emphasized that freedom of conscience and freedom of man was most important in key decisions, so I was saddened by my colleague and SDSS earlier that he was saddened by it. I think you've just said a few important things with your own exposure. And I would ask you how you interpret the whole process, a public debate from a prime minister who said that people who don't think like him don't understand that convention that he has to explain it. As a result, the debate has started in the wrong direction and opponents of the convention for reasons of diversity, and those of you who said you were going to vote, it turns out that basically all those who think that they should be Satanized, that simply in society the magicians have lagged behind. I believe this debate has contributed to the democratisation of this society, you've respected, you've included all the views and you've said that you will vote on your conscience, which is the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78959	Thank you. An answer from a respected fellow Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78960	Dear colleague Bulj, I think that if we are to adopt one convention between us, which is that we must respect ourselves first, it is the first convention to be adopted, to respect one another. I'm against Satanizing anyone, demeaning them. Neither are those who will vote in favour of this convention any persecutors of Christians, nor are they those who will vote against this Convention some retrograde, catalysts or how epithets are invented but simply we are people who must listen and follow our conscience because I say, it is the only way we can be free people and only a free man can look into the eyes of his people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78961	Thank you very much. Next Discussion You're a little late. [[Mr. Vice President, I've raised a plate for the replica...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78962	But I picked up a replica plate for Mr. Stier's last sentence to replicate on this free man and I couldn't get it up before, and I don't think it's in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure that it can't be replicated in the last sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78963	Well, if we're going to talk about free people, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78964	Thank you, sir. Mr. Stier, I'll only replicate your last sentence. So I'm glad you're feeling and that you've set the criteria for how you feel like a free man, but that's not the criteria for me. I think the criterion of how a free man feels is when he speaks and freedom of others and if you let me, wanting to understand if you feel freedom of yours and others, I would just like to ask you a few questions. Do you feel that women should be restricted to abortion, the right to medically assisted insemination, do you feel that the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex should be abolished, do you feel that it is necessary to amend the Law on State wombs that separates gender from birth identity and do you feel that the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination should be abolished where the birth identity is first defined? That's my question... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78965	I doubt Agent Stier's answer will be able to answer all that in one minute, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78966	Of course not, the first thing I want to tell you is that in plural society I will always respect different opinions. I'm going to go into a clean heart debate and I'm going to say my opinion. Yes, I do, and you already know that one of the fundamental human rights, the most important human right, is the right to life. If we go as Mr. Miranda Mrsic asks, watch what theology of the Middle Ages says, then that life does not begin with conception. If we watch what the 21st century geneticists say, then we'll see that this life begins with conception after all. We'll have that debate, be patient, don't be nervous, have enough hands obviously, and when the debate comes, we'll all be able to discuss all these issues very freely and freely.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78967	Thank you. Here is where the next individual debate will be those respected representatives of Grosdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78968	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's the question again why we're adopting this convention. By reading it several times and in this entire halabuca that's been going on all this time, one wonders whether it's written enough, whether it's read well enough or not. And then what's a fundamental question is I'm actually asking us women, how come women don't talk about this anymore, but from the angle, from the point of view when they're the ones who are most often at risk in families and why this is all happening? So in my line of work, I've also funded and shelter for women and children, and I know how many of these cases were not only from their own territory, but they've gone from different parts of Croatia, and then the man asks himself, so is it possible that it's not possible to recognize that such cases and that there are such obvious problems and why this violence against women, in fact, in this case, we need to admit, or not to admit men. So give the women tell me if it exists in my family not. But by talking to their adult children, they support exactly this form of convention, which will be prevented and given and in fact everything that happens in society to care for and society. So, institutions, which are created in one way or another, that we finance through local budgets, through state budgets, through the institutions of Caritas and the like. If we admit that there are problems, then I think that we should and solve them as an orderly society, politely to say, that such problems exist and that all these things that are numbered here, that there are both rapes and various forms of violence that exist mutilation, that there are sexual violence, that there are forced abortions and everything else. So, what is strange is that we and that actually our opinions should form the opinion given to us by our Croatian Bishopial Conference. And I respect it because I'm practically a believer and I have nothing to hesitate at all and say that I am a believer but I can't accept it, that no matter what, my opinion forms an institution and that's all we have to stick to. I think we're responsible people who have to think a lot about the future of their children and think about what can happen to any one of them. What I'd like to point out is that we as women, so in the former state, we got the right to vote in '45. It was only '71 in Switzerland. in Lichtenstein in '84, the Emiraths in 2006, that is, Arabia in 2011. So I wonder why now, after many years, voting rights, now suddenly, we as women should not have the right to say that family problems exist, why should we be ashamed of it and try to solve problems in a way that can help, that children in such a situation are as protected as possible. I always say that our Catholic people, says and cherishs three O's, and that's family, education and education. If the Catholic attitude cultivates this, then we must respect that the family is sacred, that children, through education and education, will become adults, modern and quality people, who will bring into their lives and into their future lives, therefore, their next families, something that will certainly contribute to this human race as such. So I can't agree with the fact that we stick our heads in the sand and we can't face the fact that violence exists, that we've made terrible, mutual recommendations, because I think that women, that children and families should be protected anyway, that every violence has to be clearly marked, that it has to be detected and that as such, it has to be processed and processed. Here, therefore, I think this is a civilization reach that we can actually cultivate in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78969	Thank you, we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78970	Thank you very much. Comrade Peric, you said you were a little surprised, which is not enough to hear the voice of women related to this topic. Well, I don't know, I from my experience, I've talked to a lot of women and I haven't met any woman who's against the Istanbul Convention. The only one I've heard of on the radio is Željka Markic. What your impressions are and you're talking to your colleagues in the party. What they say about the Istanbul Convention, do they think the Istanbul Convention is something that is really necessary if we want to be part of a modern European society. Do you know what a prominent professor from Rijeka, Sanja Baric, says, who spent hours and hours of her spare time to point out the importance of the Istanbul Convention. She says the ignorance and lies surrounding the Istanbul Convention are used to preserve the position of the woman as secondary. So the real target of the Istanbul Convention critics is women's equality. And there's the background of all these ultra-conservative right attacks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78971	The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78972	Well, here's my motive, and it was to tell the public that it's the woman who has to say whether the convention protects her rights or not, there are different views within my party but that doesn't mean that I can't understand why they think otherwise, but I also think that this is actually an attempt, what you said, that a woman must actually be second and that she has no right to vote and that she can't actually rank with a man. That's what's the worst that could have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78973	Thank you very much. Next... The debate should be a respected representative of Steve Cule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78974	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to throw out everything I'm saying because it's really a lot of things and it's said, so we don't repeat ourselves, but I'm going to agree that the metric is beyond what is the basic measure, which is violence, that is, preventing violence against women and family, the metricism is whether or not the birth ideology wanted me to admit it, so whatever it was, whatever it was we interpreted, accepted, didn't accept, believed it existed or not. As a result, a whole atmosphere was created in a society that is mildly sad. So whoever ignores, whoever disdains, insults the efforts of the people who were in Zagreb the other day for a protest or who will be in Split tomorrow, are mistaken. These people have a feeling, someone convinced them, or convinced themselves, that their system of values is in danger and that they protect this system of values with a normal, democratic process, which is a protest. And OK. It must not be underestimated by this need to belong, to reflect on the general and large number of acceptable values of life. However, we cannot get out of the very document that is actually spoken of. In the Istanbul Convention, whoever says otherwise, I think they're wrong, there's literally no formal evidence, no evidence of gender separation. It's interpreted, the definition of gender is offered, it's what it is because it's a sociological category. Gender is biological and clear. So there's no evidence that they're separating. Just like there's no evidence to connect, right? So if we're talking dry, clean about the Istanbul Convention, to put it that way, we can't interpret, at least my deep conviction, we can't interpret that it's some kind of gender ideology, so whatever it means. After all, and all the conclusions so far, as far as I'm aware, if I'm wrong, I'd like to be replicated, the scientific conclusions of all experts can be reduced to one sentence, which is that each generation belongs to the same sex. There are opinions of these and such, but the position of the world health organization is in that position and in this context, in which we observe the definition of gender in the Istanbul Convention itself, we will see that it is put there to explain, to simplify the explanation, to explain the essence in terms of the spirit of the convention itself. To explain what it is, what is the context of violence and birth conditions, or any violence against women, you'll see if we analyze it a little bit, we'll see that it comes down to it. What's worrying here? It is alarming that this gender ideology is placed in some starting point of a new ideological division in a society that we simply all need to have energy together to recognize and all together, while still in time, cancel out this starting point of division and such a significantly divided society. So even some new rulers appear, beware, who stand in the protection of families, peoples, homelands, faith. Do you understand me? They're being positioned, I'm going to say political positions, we need to be extremely responsible and in this direction talk. So, there's a definition of some new ones, they like to call themselves sovereigns, so I'm just going to be taxing, unsystematized to a few facts that are very important at this point. The Istanbul Convention was attended by Croatian experts, one who participated in the work. In 2013, the Croatian government adopted it. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention by our experts, the people of our government, who signed it, is a matter of political responsibility and consistency. We should take care of that, too. And we need to know that it's simply the position of a serious state. We can accept or not accept what's called gender ideology, I'll tell you, if birth ideology is what I've heard these days about it, I wouldn't, not that I don't accept it, but I'm not even close, is it? Sovereignty means the position of a serious state is that of simple ratification. I don't want to talk about Gravey at all, we've said everything. An interpretative statement has been offered, which is somehow given the hand and understanding of all those who see interpretation in the Istanbul Convention, i.e. see this birth ideology, and I understand people who read it that way. However, here are an additional tool that directs this reading of the Istanbul Convention, just as the legal document that Mr Stier mentioned earlier does, to interpret how the European Commission's legal service interprets that gender can be separated from sex and in such a way that they are diverse. I can't help but say that we have a fact these days, so you have a person, you have a thesis, attitude, and when people attack a person, and not what that person advocates, then make sure that these people manipulate and speak unargumented. The same thing about lack of arguments, when someone sets up attitudes and digs into some trenches and then calls for some sort of authority, make sure that one doesn't know what he's talking about, that he knows what he's talking about, that he's manipulating. We've also heard often a statement that someone in this situation is going to profit, that's correct. From every kind of political decision, every event, and from life, someone is profiting from it. But put in context this, this serious question socially, in that context, it's the same thing as telling you that undertakers are going to profit from the death because they're going to profit from it because they're going to be leading the cost of the funeral of the deceased. So we can't simplify the matter, we need to recognize manipulation, we need to recognize political goals in all of this, or even some concrete political projects. Regardless, however, I return to the need for a truly great need to understand the other and different, and so in this context the position of understanding and accepting the other attitude. The conflict of thought must no longer turn into personal conflicts that have come to the minority as the people say on the knife. We cannot allow it as a society, I appeal to all together to vote on my conscience, but by conscience the vote implies both for and against ratification of the Istanbul Convention. It's just normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78975	Thank you. We have one replica of a respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78976	... I never expected you to support this convention in view of the way you always showed when it came to domestic violence and many aspects of how the sacrifice should be protected. [[You can't hear the phone.]] But I would like to point out once again that it is equally important that we have not put in place a regulation that has not abolished a provision that prescribes the responsibility of the state for compensation to victims who have suffered severe physical injury or health damage to the extent that this damage is not covered by other sources. Namely, the right to compensation is too bad to repeat, i.e. Compensation by the State and the right to use legal mechanisms is one of the most significant rights of the victim of a criminal offence which represents the whole concept of paying the victim's compensation regardless of the source of payment or the mechanism used or the types of loss to be compensated. So they can be property, medical, hospital, etc. and may be non-proprietary And that's something we need to secure. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78977	Answer from colleagues Orepić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78978	First of all, respected colleagues, which should be recognised in this Convention is the fact that, after the adoption of this Convention, violence against the victim will not only be a problem for those victims, but for the whole of our society as a whole and simply that problem, we have made a step in solving these problems. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78979	The next debate will be her respected representative, Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78980	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before I begin to deal with the metrics of these arguments we have heard today during the day, I would like to say one thing. Some starting point in my thinking, and it reads like this: Yes, the SDP was supposed to ratify the Istanbul Convention, yes. We've missed that opportunity, and I'm truly sorry about that. At the time when this happened, I was the assistant secretary of defense and I fought, I tried, my proposal was to do it, it wasn't accepted, it would be talked about by someone else, but in the laws that I wrote, and most important of them was the Law on Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, the Istanbul Convention was implemented and I'm proud of it. In this debate today, we had the opportunity to hear four basic arguments. The first of them refers to the birthal ideology of the so-called “Ideology. ” The second relates somewhat to this previous, interpretative statement, the third concerns the issue of sovereignty and finally the fourth concerns the issue of the church's position, i.e. the Croatian Bishop's Conference on the subject. As far as gender ideology is concerned, the first and most important thing to say about this and what needs to be known about this is that we cannot talk about gender ideology without talking about radical neoconservatives in Croatia and Europe. The question, therefore, is the question of people who believe that there is a gender ideology and in the political and social life of Croatia and other European countries are fighting strongly against the so-called. The gender ideology that actually doesn't exist is very well recorded. From 2012 and '13. Furthermore, there are radical neoconservative movements across Europe, especially in civil society that are pushing the agenda, so they are pushing the idea that such a thing exists. For those who want to know more warmly I recommend the scientific work under the title... /The speech speaks English./... is published last year, the authors are Roman Kuhar and Aleš Zobec. So you have a very nice chronologically documented history of the antigender movement in Europe as well as in Croatia. So the question of gender ideology is a fictitious question, gender ideology does not exist. It is something that the radical and unpreservative movements in Croatia and Europe have invented to enter a political arena across European countries. Ten days ago, I held a press conference here in the Croatian Parliament, where I first talked about the question of radical neoconservators and their activities in Croatia. The first comments on that were in the media, some mostly transmitted, but there were those who shook their hand and said, "Here's a conspiracy theory. " Since then all mainstream media have started to write about radical neoconservatives in Croatia, among other things in HDZ has started talking about it, the Prime Minister has talked about it today. So from something that was kept silent in this country ten days ago today, the most important government officials are talking about, and that's good. Birth ideology is the only one that a colleague Grbin spoke of, it's the same gender ideology that has for centuries denied equal chances in society in which we live. That genealogy is called the patriarchate. It should be in this place maybe, and yet it's also about the next point, and that's the question of the interpretative statement and this argument of how it's actually introduced for the first time into our legislation of gender. So I was already quoting today the opinion of the Constitutional Court of 2013 The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 138/2013. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees a guaranteed right, i.e. everyone has the right to a decent life regardless of their birth identity, "anyone guarantees respect and legal protection for his personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor", regardless of any identity. The Patriarchate is a gender ideology that equally discriminates both transgender and cystic persons should say the same. The question of the interpretative argument which we have heard a lot about today is that we cannot, in an interpretative statement, be engrossed from something that I have just explained to you that it does not exist. It doesn't make sense to build on gender ideology if we know what it is and that it really doesn't exist. In this sense, the SDP will, and we have already said this today, propose that for these reasons this article is deleted because it can otherwise lead to manipulation and discrimination of a whole series of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Then this issue is about the sovereignty of the famous GREVIO, so some colleagues and colleagues here especially from what is now popularly said sovereign political options believe that we should never have entered the EU anyway, that even so the people were wrong when they chose it all in the referendum and here, a little by little, the Republic of Croatia probably lost its sovereignty. But look, I mean, if we're part of some larger community of political, social. There's something we have to be afraid of. It is up to us colleagues and colleagues and in our country, to us who lead this country, who have been elected and have been given the mandate to lead it to make sure that everyone lives well in this country, and then it is irrelevant every Grevio. Finally, there is a question of the position of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. As I said earlier, we were given a mandate to lead this country, to take care of the well-being of its citizens. How many terms did the Croatian bishops get, how many? They didn't run in the elections, they didn't get a single vote, but it seems to me that there are MPs and MPs in this House. You should think about it. The church is a very successful social organization. Being a believer is a constitutional right, it's super all right with that, now that you need to be able to live your faith and it's also constitutional right. However, the church, first and foremost, is not a democratic organisation of colleagues and colleagues, which is an organisation that does not treat women equally and equally as men and they do not dispute. Okay, the Constitution gives them a framework to practice it, but at the moment when such a structure tries to re-images itself to a democratic society, then we have a problem because this country is still secular and it is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This is the first time we colleagues and colleagues have had the opportunity to see that the Croatian Bishop's Conference and the Church in Croatia are said to be, although all of us who are believers are actually this church, but its Claire has become involved in the conflict and in political processes in the Republic of Croatia to decide in politics. The Church can and should have its position, should communicate it, they had every right and were called upon to say, we believe that the Istanbul Convention should not be ratified, but campaigns, letters, calling MPs and MPs in a certain way, angry sermons of Easter Sisak will just say that, for example, there were other places, so it is not appropriate, it cannot be appropriate. Among other things, we had a chance to see where the church positioned the woman. You had a priest, a professor who said a woman was second. With all due respect, so everyone has the freedom to live their faith, if it suits anyone, thank God we fought for freedom, we bloody paid for it, this is the kind of freedom everyone should have. But at the moment when you try to jeopardize the freedom of another, then we have a problem, and the church has gone beyond what is actually sending them. In that sense, a colleague and colleagues would end up talking about what is really the only matter in the Istanbul Convention, at least in the last months when it comes to the Istanbul Convention, about what I have implemented in my time in the Law on Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War, about protecting women from violence. Point. Anything further than that is a complete fabrication, a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78981	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Ines Strenja-Linić's respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78982	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you can see today, I don't want to replicate to those who are against the Istanbul Convention. I will replicate a colleague to whom I will actually only add that the argument that Croatia will be less sovereign because of the signing of an international contract on the protection of women from violence is at least ridiculous, bearing in mind that we have been part of the international community for 20 years and that we are signatories of a whole series of such international agreements, created within the framework of the UN, the Council of Europe and the EU, that we are part of the EU legal system. However, the most difficult thing to accept is the fact that the instruments to strengthen women and girls' protection against violence are rejected, that is to argue with the issue of sovereignty, while in matters of regulation of food imports, food production, issues of creating self-sustainability in energy, the protection of public goods from excessive exploitation and concession of maritime goods for projects with questionable environmental impact and sustainability of island communities do not raise the issue. If there is somewhere to strengthen sovereignty and the protection of our values, these are the areas of the protection of women against violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78983	Thank you. The response of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, too, for the comment of my colleague Strenja-Linić. So the issue of sovereignty is one of those places where conservativeism can be distinguished from radicalism, among other things. So the Croatian people, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, chose among other things to join the EU for a referendum. So even though this framework set by the Istanbul Convention for Oversight is not the only link for the EU, but the point is that this famous GREVIO against which it was spoken, I think, we will be the same GREVIO, in the same way that Croatia is the EU, in the same way that we would be the GREVIO that presents itself as some kind of babarog that should take the Croats to third Yugoslavia, approximately.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78985	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78986	Comrade Glavasevic, I think you made a mistake when you asked in your debate how many churches there are mandates. It is known to everyone that the church does not go to elections and it is not a church mission to participate in political life. The Church has the right to speak its mind, it has no dilemma at all and it is not disputed. I also stressed that by mentioning a statement from the Croatian Bishop's Conference. But the church has no right to call for demonstrations from the altar. I think that is where the Croatian Bishop's Conference was wrong, not only the Croatian Bishop's Conference but also the priests who called for demonstrations on Sunday's Masses. So here you have today on the portals that some of the priests who took the right to call for demonstrations. They have no right to do so, and they have no right to put pressure on parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78987	Hey, buddy Head, time's up. My colleague Glavasevic's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78988	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Glavas actually didn't realize where I was wrong because you said it at the beginning, so you actually said about what I said, the church certainly has the right to say its...... Yeah, yeah, possible, that was metaphorical, but that's what it's really about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's problematic, because here I am going to read article 41. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says, "All religious communities are equal before the law and separate from the state. The religious communities are free to perform religious rituals in public, to establish schools, universities, other institutions, social and charity institutions and to manage them and to enjoy the protection and assistance of the state in their activities." But when religious communities are placed unfairly, when they interfere with what is not here, then we have a problem, does the state need to deny the protection that is guaranteed to the religious communities in this Constitution? Well, I think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78989	Thank you. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78990	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The aim and purpose of the Istanbul Convention is to provide a modern and effective and legal framework to prevent domestic violence and violence against women. So empower the state authorities and make the state authorities and the state responsible to compensate for the damage or to prevent domestic violence as much as possible. I have not heard in the assembly today any MPs who are against it have not heard any MPs object when we discussed the national law on preventing domestic violence. We people have a consensus on the fundamental issue we're discussing today. That's the point. The rest, which dominated the debate, is pure politics and taking up a position both on the right hand or within a particular party. The Istanbul Convention wants to be shown as a lacmus paper which is a true rightist and who is not. In my opinion, that's wrong. It's wrong and we're putting such an important issue as a hostage within a party or a struggle within a spectrum, a political spectrum. We are trying here to provide the world's highest standard, the golden standard for the protection of women against violence, just as we have provided our country's golden standard of national security by entering NATO, so we are trying to ensure that at one individual level, we provide safety to one human being, so to a woman. The interpretative statement that goes with this convention, I said today in the replica of the Prime Minister, is not pointless, but I find it unnecessary. And why do I think it's unnecessary? Redundant, immaterial. Well, because she says that the Republic of Croatia believes that the aim of the Convention is to protect women from all forms of violence, so that is absolutely evident and we agree on that. Then he says the Republic of Croatia considers that the provisions of the Convention do not require the introduction of gender ideology. We've all been convinced here today that these ideologies aren't there, no one knew how to define it, why he didn't know how to define it, so because it just doesn't exist. And then we say that we will implement the Convention in accordance with the provisions of our Constitution. Well, of course we will because although the Convention is confirmed above the law, it is not above the Constitution and therefore must be implemented in accordance with the Constitution. But if this statement is needed to calm down certain spirits and passions, then we accept it in the SDP and we have nothing against it because it only confirms what we all know, behind which we stand, this time it's just put on paper. Now, about the topic that dominated our debate, which is the question of gender. So we all agree that sex is biologically conditioned, so we have a man, we have a woman, we have 1% of the world's population that is transgender, so it can't determine if they have a characteristic of each other sex. This Convention does not introduce a third sex. That must be clear to everyone. That the stork as defined by this convention is separate from the sex, so that's evident. We said sex is a biological category, whereas gender is a sociological category and in that sense they are not the same. So gender is a socially shaped role, behavior, activities and qualities that I consider appropriate for women and men. So, for sex. Simplifiedly speaking, gender is the social role of sex. Now, they're separated as two categories, one is biological, the other is sociological. But I didn’t get the best idea in which way they were further separated. Is it like a fellow Stier or someone in this assembly who thinks they're separate in a way that a man can say I'm a woman? Even if he did, so what? So she can paint her nails? Here's Ronaldo polished his fingernails, so today he's playing games in Real, and everyone worships him like a football god. A man wearing a dress? Well, in the Middle Ages, they used to wear tunics, dresses, all kinds of things, and today you have people behind the altar wearing dresses, so what? So I don't see what the problem is. Is the problem if the state body stops the person who is a man and she declares herself a woman, how will the state authorities treat her? Well, they'll treat her the way it's written in the documents. As the legal order recognizes a particular person, its sex and thus gender. And now what's the problem? So if I get stopped by a cop and my ID card says Josko Klisovic, I can tell him a hundred times I'm Marko Markovic, that doesn't mean anything. The legal order recognizes me and gives me all the rights according to what it says in my documents. If the documents say I've changed the sex because the legal order allows it, then they'll treat me that way. What's the problem? Gender, biologically conditioned, gender social construct, sociological category. What we're talking about all the time and what the convention is based on is equality, gender equality, so no sex can stand a certain role just because it's a woman and it's not a man. The example is a handful, we'll only mention one, and that's from the beginning of the last century, in Great Britain were dominant theories about the connection of cognitive ability, so the brain of a woman with the reproductive abilities of a woman. The woman was considered and her social role was only, the most important society was to ensure the offspring, to give birth. As it was believed that any enhanced cognitive activity of women led to a weakness of reproductive organs, it was then encouraged that women did not go to study, not to learn, not to go to schools, not to work, not to stimulate their brain activity because it would negatively affect their reproductive activities. So it's wrong, it's a birthplace. It's gender inequality, and that's what we're actually fighting against. The same thing that we're fighting for women getting less pay for the same job than men. Here's data in the EU today, 16% of women get less pay for the same job than men. It's gender inequality. Sexual inequality will always exist because they're different biological men than women, they can't be the same, but before the law, in society, there has to be equality, and that's the sociological gender equality, and that's why I don't see where the gender problem is. Birth ideology as such does not exist, gender ideology can only be reduced to gender equality, so equality between men and women before the law, equality between men and women in society, equal treatment of two sexes in society. That's what we're talking about and beyond that we're not talking about and there's no further than that. Of course that also means changing certain stereotypes that have been created throughout history. So we are changing them today, until yesterday in the last century, and in Croatia there have been arranged marriages, today there is no more. So things change, they're all born conditioned things, and let's not be so skeptical that we're creating a new modern society for ourselves and our children, in accordance with the moment and time in which we live by respecting the values that we inherited from our old, the values that teach us and our faith or our worldview. But let's not stop in time. Let's face it, some things have to be improved and they weren't good until yesterday. And that's what this convention is about. So once again this convention does not promote any third sex, it does not promote the possibility of a child having two mothers or two fathers. So these are things that aren't objects here. The subject of this convention is merely an attempt to combat domestic violence, to combat violence against women and to ensure equality between two genders, two sexes in one society, and that is all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78991	Let's go to the next individual debate, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78992	Mr. President, here's a lot of thesis being said. I will express my position, therefore, this Istanbul Convention, I must say, has divided the Croatian people and I think it is not good, at the moment thousands of young people emigrate from Croatia, I think it is a demographic picture of Croatia, such that in some way, it endangers the national security of HR and imagine that such a topic happened as a result of the Homeland War, when the survival of the Croatian state was at stake and I don't think it's good. We've actually had two monologues through public discourse, and I don't think two monologues do dialogue and you're using hard words on both sides. I personally do not think, as well as fellow Stier, that those who are for the Istanbul Convention, are under the influence of some foreign forces, Satans and such things. I was shocked when I saw it, and on the portals there were some colleagues from HDZ, who were congratulating Easter for the Istanbul Convention, here, colleague Irene, that was a terrible thing, congratulating me in a very tolerated way in the Easter, experiencing from Christians, from Catholics an offensive message, and I can't accept it, because I don't think it's a Christian speech. I also don't think that those who are against the Istanbul Convention are backward, clerofasticists, but people who have their own position. I entered the Bridge as a man who, with my worldview and for 20 years, I was a believer in school and in the City of Zagreb I had 99% of my children in religious science and had children who did not enroll in religious studies, were not in the hall, but were in my class because they wanted to come to my class because they did not feel discriminated against in that class. I led the children as a believer both in mosques and synagogues, so I introduced them to other religions, and I think I'm quite toleranced as a man. My position on the Istanbul Convention is to vote, I will be against it for several reasons. The issue of sovereignty was mentioned here. For me, it is in some way a ratification of the Istanbul Convention, a recognition that we are to some extent incompetent. Unable to protect women and families without some foreign intervention, this as a parliamentary representative is difficult to admit. You could also ask a question, if we're already copying something and in some way ratification is copying something that we didn't bring into our dreams, why didn't we approach some other laws like that? Why didn't we prescribe the Executive Law, the Slovenian, which solved those completed in Slovenia? Why don't we act like that in other things? Why don't we rewrite some other laws that would solve existential problems in Croatia? And I mean, here's the question. And what I would still like to trouble you, which is still in the public debate and in this debate, no one has touched, and that is the concept of safe houses. Is that the happiest concept? So, the beginner of safe houses, a lady who was, she started it, she publicly fenced herself and said she was wrong about that concept, because in a way, there's a double punishment for the victim. So, the victim is singled out, not the bully. I just have to mention that some foreign countries, which have introduced the Istanbul Convention, have given up the concept of safe houses and are getting pucks from Grewi, because they do not implement the concept of safe houses, because they have found that one concept is much better, or more just. At the first touch of violence, they single out the bully, in special institutions, motels and the bully pays himself therefore, there the accommodation, there is the rehabilitation, the treatment of alcoholism and such things, and the woman, that is, stays in her apartment, so she stays in her natural environment, and the bully is singled out, stays in the labour market. Well the same, here, I'd like to... and this concept in the debate, and we know that the Istanbul Convention, in some ways, prescribes the number of safe houses that we have to make. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I say, I'll make my point at the vote. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78993	We have one replica, dear fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78994	Thank you, Mr. President, colleague of Sladovev, at the beginning of your debate, you said that the ratification of the Istanbul Convention was divided by the Croatian people. I disagree with you, that is not true, because before the government sent ratification to this debate in the Croatian Parliament conducted a survey among Croatian citizens and that poll showed that 66% of Croatian citizens support ratification of the Istanbul Convention and 22% do not support or generally do not support and 11% have no position. So 66% versus 22% is the fat majority. But this ratification of what she shared, she divided the HDZ and divided the Most. Right parties in Croatian society who have among their members a distinct right-wing member and a right-wing centre. And that's what the issue is divided. So not Croatian society, society is not divided there and society is clear there. The divisions are in HDZ and they cannot agree on what they should do. Here are the only divisions and they're very loud in showing each other their side.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78995	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78996	Dear fellow Djujic, I do not believe you too much in the polls and I also believe in my senses and eyes, so you saw how many people were in Ban Jelačić Square and will probably be in Split as many numbers. Divisions in society exist, that anyone can see when they go to facebook and what kind of words are used, so it's inevitable and I don't think it's good. As far as division in the Mosto is concerned, we have publicly communicated that we will vote differently on world-wide topics, for example. CDU, that's what Mr. Podolnjak already said. I have people among my friends who are in favour of the Istanbul Convention, against, even in my family, I have yes and no doubt I will not give up such people because I think they are good people. So this whole division thing, so more politics shared the people than they thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78997	Thank you. Let's move on, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78998	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. This debate today was extremely interesting for a number of reasons, for me primarily because for the first time in the Croatian Assembly I experienced so many quotes of philosophers but unfortunately wrongly, in the wrong way because everyone went to those quotes and arguments to defend the position of their fixed world. Our current fixed world is all violence against women. The future world, the evolutionary world, the world we're heading towards is the world that's going to end this violence. We're not going to discuss this in any way and put it in the political frameworks or the party frameworks. Personally, I'm an independent parliamentary representative, and I vote that it doesn't come to my mind, it's my judgment. Evidence and burden of proof whether I am an independent parliamentary representative is not on me because I am acting out of my own conscience and my own mind, but on those whose club I am mostly in, especially lately, voting the opposite of what they are doing and I do not view it as any problem. For what? Because I believe that it is a fundamental feature of a human being, which is that by reason of knowledge, freedom decides and does not act violently. This third category of non-violent action is contained in the Istanbul Convention and its ratification. And in order to be able to ratify this third dimension, we first need to start with this rational and this free one. Now let me tell you what's reasonable. It was said that gender is separate from sex. However, it is not the first separation we have experienced. Let's look at it a little bit logically and ontologically, nobody mentioned it, they called for natural order, natural law, but unfortunately there are colleagues who have avoided the law of logic and then we have no natural order but we have a logical mess and logical illegality. I'll tell you what that means. In the logic and philosophy of which I say today most often called, there is something called a substance, which is a being within itself. The creature that exists inside is human, or if you're going to tell us to include both woman and man. A man is the first thing we must not separate anyone from. After that, we attach someone to that being, it's sex. After that, we attach the following particulars, which is gender. We without a man who's a fundamental value, a fundamental being that exists inside us, we can't have sex, sex ontology is a lie. Ontology of gender is a lie. Violence is a lie. The world of violence is not a world of faith, it's a world of dead gods and dead human gods. These dead human gods were brought into the world by a bully. The one who beats a woman into the world has brought a dead god. The one who rapes a child into a child's world has brought in a dead god. And for what? Because he's got value in him. We are now, indeed, a document where we are civilizedly determined whether we will belong in a world where human rights will be respected and religious rights are entered into human rights, and these are the rights of the living God that has been discussed here again and again. I have already said, in one replica, that Christianity is a noble religion. For what? Because it promotes a man's idea as images of God. What does that mean? This means that man is a picture of God by being free and knowing what can be determined. Man stands before that freedom, and before that human freedom, God stands. We must not act on the freedom of others by divine or human violence. And I'd like the institutional church to put her in the place where God left off without taking a step forward and not telling me how I should vote, what I should be doing. The principle of conscience, as subjective standards of morality, the principle of my freedom, the principle of my rational activity is that no one in my ear, in my conscience, in my freedom, in my metaphysical being will whisper. They won't whisper to me what I'm supposed to do, but I'm going to act very hard, and I'm going to argue that my actions, my actions and my actions of society are not violent. And we can only do that if we introduce a lot of distinctions, not separation, but dystrations, and it's really not hard to understand that sex is a biological category and we claim that we're just biological beings and it means that we do a biological reduction. We've developed today, unfortunately, I hope that no one will do it because it's too late tonight and it won't start with the development of genital politology. We're so focused on this sex area that we've developed an entire perverse discipline that I call genital polythology. Let's give it up, engage in humanistic debates, engage in the construction of a society and the construction of a world that will cease to be violent, a world that will be plural, a world that will understand, for example, that calling on this accumulating sovereignty, that's another logical irony again. Look, sovereigns deny internal sovereignty. In what way? Internal sovereignty means that power comes from the people. The people are not homogeneous, it's a heterogeneous reality, it has many identities, birth, sex, religious, national. Sovereignists who take into account only one category deny internal sovereignty, just as they do not realize that parody appears in front of the world when they declare someone to be ethno-business. The largest and only ethno-businesses in the Republic of Croatia are those who, based on the majority of the people, are nationalised by bringing it down to a global minority, while at the same time receiving funds from the budget. These are the only real and most dangerous ethno-businesses in Croatia. The most dangerous, the only and real dangerous people and the Republic of Croatia are those who have decided to make their instrument of violence an instrument to treat other people. We have to, this is really a simple question, and that's a question of whether we're going to admit that women are historically, historically reduced to beings that we men have bullied. They were entering the family. Families instead of being communities, privileged communities in which love will be distributed, create an emotional community, create a family, create children, we have for years, for centuries women have exposed violence. Now we've finally decided that we're going to get out of this covertness of violence, that we're going to make violence hidden, and that we're going to humanize the world, and that we can humanize everyone today only if we say, we've unjustly humiliated women, humiliated them, exposed them to many injustices. This Istanbul Convention is again philosophically not a reference to how some divine... the former man who is a good Croat, a good Catholic, to create a new future being. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will not be a new being, this is not a guide to the creation of a new man, this is not a guide to creating a new world order, but is a guide to how to stop being violent in Croatian society and to stop being violent towards women and children. And that's why I'm saying, if a referendum were to be organised in which the whole world would participate and the whole world would be against ratification, I would still be for this ratification because this ratification stops with our spiral of violence and this ratification is compassionately approaching the present woman because we see in it the symbol of the woman who has been historically, for centuries, historically oppressed. This decision to ratify, to participate in the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is the decision of me as a historical being who has a responsibility to all women of this world and to all women of this century and all ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u78999	Thank you. It's a very interesting debate, I congratulate you on it. We have a debate, dear colleague Djujic, here you go. I'm sorry, not guilty. Dear colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79000	Petrijevcan, colleague Jandroković. Thank you very much. Comrade Vučetić, you deserve a round of applause. If more priests were to talk about this impeccable pure Catholic science that you were now talking about, then we wouldn't be in this situation today. Although I must admit that there are indeed priests who did not spread for Easter what counterpart Glavasevic said, hate speech and called for demonstrations. But to find ourselves in a very anti-threat situation full of oxymoron also says that while we're talking and while my colleague calls me here to receive some threats, a new threat comes to me in a series of e-mail threats and SMSs where, now listen well, he calls me to suicide after we vote for the Istanbul Convention because, as Judas betrayed Jesus, So we can't live with that shame, I have to say, I'm sorry. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] That way, we cannot live with that shame, that betrayal, and everything that carries a conscience, if we have it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79001	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79002	Thank you. It's funny I didn't get any threats. Is this the consequence of these very roles that men do not approach, not threaten, but it is very worrying that this threat is addressed to you, that this threat is directed to anyone and that this threat is precisely to those who do not support women on the historical stage, that is those who want a woman to be delivered to death, to social death, and this very message that you have said that someone wrote to you to commit suicide, that is a message to every beaten woman when she is beaten, it is sent a message to execute suicide, that she ceases to exist as a worthy being. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention will end this, even if it will bring the public to light. I'd like to say that human rights don't rule out each other. Religious law remains a strong right and must not deny it. Human rights are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79003	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79004	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's already too late, a lot is said today, and I'm really going to try to be brief, and I'm going to change the direction of the debate that I wanted, that is, how I imagined it today at the beginning of the day. I will try to sum up some of my vision of this whole debate and everything that has been heard today in the Croatian Parliament, but what is heard in our public over the past few days. So, the question of ratification of the Istanbul Convention for me is not at all a question, it's not a secular issue, it's a civilization issue, and I'll be for ratification in the fifth. And I think that the last days I've been listening to in public is not at all the subject of what's being imposed, so I'm not going to speak in my debate as some of my predecessors explain what gender is, what sex is, etc. but I want to point out one problem that has been crystallized in my view the last days, which is the role of the church in policymaking, in state-leading. I don't think the church has been involved in politics since yesterday, nor has the church started at the altar yesterday as some have spoken, started calling both MPs and politicians on what to do and how to do, she's been doing it for 20 years, always for local elections and for parliamentary elections and for presidential elections we listen to messages from the altar for whom to vote and how to behave and what to think, just now it's the first time that they've called against those for all these years, and that's what's come out now. I've listened to a lot of interesting debates today, I've listened to my colleague Stier, I don't agree with him on a lot of things, but I agree with what he said is his right to have his own opinion and that his right to vote as he wishes on Friday, and that it's the right for each of us to think, in this and in all other matters, with my own head and thinking what's right and that's right, and that none of us should be aggressive towards anyone else who thinks differently. However, we witnessed a protest 10 days ago and we will witness tomorrow a big protest on the Split Riviera that you believe me, there will be a full message of love, unity and Christian love for your neighbor, while today I took a break, I went home because I've been here all day for an hour, so I saw a show of a convicted drug dealer who spreads so many messages of love calling for tomorrow's rally and spreading messages against the prime minister, against the government, against the officials of the highest of this country, along with a lady whose main concern is the struggle for the family. Now, that is so hypocritical and so much should be said by the right name and what I'm going to say here, I'm glad HDZ has just launched ratification of the Istanbul Convention, that it has been able to push this into this parliament and go to these aggressive right-wings in Croatian society. Here's a colleague who just said, I just had a replica where I didn't insult anyone, I didn't touch any of the world's light questions, and here I got seven messages on Facebook. It's our day-to-day thing. After his speech today, Bauk received a dozen threats, all half-written, but I understand them, I don't need an interpreter like his colleague Zekanovic, who I don't know, doesn't understand some languages in the Croatian Parliament, so we have some rightists who don't speak either English or Croatian so I can't understand them at all what they're saying, but it doesn't bother anyone. Some of the other things bother me, although I advocate that Croatian language should be spoken in the Croatian Assembly. What I'm glad to have opened up here is the question of the church's role in politics and I hope this debate goes on and we're going to open up a little bit of the Vatican Treaty issue, that we're going to open up some other topics when it comes to the church. And I say that as a believer, as a person who goes to church, who goes to mass, but I don't want to be told from the altar what I need to think and how I should think. And when the great believers call upon the teaching of Jesus Christ and God, Jesus Christ told God God, the king's king long ago, so let our church leaders start acting, and let them deal with the church and what is their business, and let politics let politicians go, and I only want to end it. Kolega Aleksic said well on Friday, when we ratify this Istanbul Convention because the debate shows that most ratification advocates, there will be no more homosexuals in Croatia on Monday, people with two heads will not start walking in Croatia, there will be no abnormal situations, everything will be the same as today, on this issue. A colleague, Zekanovic, said he was in BiH, and BiH is a great example, in 2013, they ratified the Istanbul Convention, already for 4 years, it is a country of 3 people, 3 faiths and 3 churches that are more involved in the lives of those people, than the church has interfered with us, so nothing happened to them, but last week they said amy in Croatia is a problem, that we have passed nothing. And that's the point. That's supposed to be with us. We should have ratified this without some big pomp, but behind this is worth some other stuff and trying to destabilise and I'm worried about the prime minister's statement yesterday who said there are pressures on certain parliamentary deputies to vote, he's asked that question this morning, he doesn't have the courage to say it, I'm taxing it, I understand it, it's not easy for him, but it should be openly said that these pressures certainly come from the ranks of the church to certain parliamentary representatives and it's unacceptable. Because both the Constitution and the Croatian laws state that we all have the right to decide by our conscience, without the pressure and interference of anyone, and whoever puts pressure on any parliamentary representative is above all a criminal act and can answer. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues on Friday, each by your conscience, respect the will of others, but do not aggressively pressure other colleagues who do not agree with you. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79005	Let's move on. Now it's my esteemed colleague Branimir Glavas, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79006	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, I'll say a few words for the end. It's all said today. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna use this opportunity to track social networks. The reaction of an Ossetian I know, I will say his name, Saša Malcic: The head of the Red Ustasha says that he is a Catholic and a believer and that the church puts pressure on the believers in what he is asking what he believes? So here I will take the opportunity to respond to Sasa Malcic, who was a member of the Sombor group and ended up in Serbian captivity for a period of two years after which I personally as mayor of Osijek-Baranja via the parliamentary representative Veselin Pejnovic was humiliated and wrote a letter to Slobodan Milosevic asking that the exchange between Croatian prisoners in Serbian prisons be made as soon as possible. He asks Malcic what I believe in. I believe in God Almighty in God Almighty, I am a member of the Catholic Church and Catholic faith, but that does not mean when I say that I will vote for ratification of the Istanbul Convention not to vote on my conscience. I vote by my conscience, by my free belief and by my determined political stance. I believe that the Istanbul Convention is not Satan and the black devil as individual friars send messages through social networks to the Croatian public and manipulate large, large numbers of believers. I am against it, and I am against it when the altar calls for demonstrations both in Zagreb a dozen days ago, 15 days ago and those announced for tomorrow. It's not the church's mission in their sermons to rattle and invite citizens to some kind of protest. No one contests the right of the church to express its views, its opinion, and to send messages to the believers, but it cannot move them to such activities because I have the right to doubt that something else is hidden in the background of this rhetoric. I am a believer but I do not accept such a way of working the church from the altar, I accept the way in which the Croatian Bishop's Conference is sent to them last night, such as the one in which they directly address the parliamentary deputies and give them practical guidance on how they must vote. And those who will vote in favour and those who will vote against me deeply believe that they vote in accordance with their conscience. I do not dispute the right of those who wish to vote in favour of having the right to vote and act in accordance with their conscience, but I do not allow neither the team nor others to label us who will support the Istanbul Convention that we have no conscience, that we have no attitudes, that we do not know what we are doing, that we support the stone resolutions because it is simply not true. It's pure manipulation and politicization of altars and churches and all messages sent from church institutions. How else do you understand the message of one of the bishops who said, those who support the Istanbul Convention if they were members of the Catholic Church have disfellowshipped themselves. Is this a shepherd or pastoral rhetoric of the priest and the Bishop's Conference? I don't agree with that, and I don't accept such rhetoric and reject it. Nothing more and nothing greater is a Catholic than me who votes for the Istanbul Convention accepting or voting against. So I don't consider myself anything to be a minor believer or a member of the Catholic Church for the reason I will vote in favour of ratification of the Istanbul Convention than the one who votes against. I also don't consider myself any smaller Croat and patriot if I vote against the Istanbul Convention or if I vote for the Istanbul Convention compared to those who vote against the Istanbul Convention. I am voting in accordance with my conscience, voting in accordance with my decision and in accordance with my conviction, voting in accordance with the HDSSB programme, and HDSSB is a political party, regional, national and European party, the right-wing party and is not any rigid extremist political party that has tried to show us in the past ten years. I vote with full conscience and full responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79007	Thank you. We have one replica, a re-respected colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79008	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My dear colleague, you're in charge. I don't need to attack anyone and even less defend them, but we're testifying this afternoon to people who are so-called. The main fighters for Christian principles, now he is not here to protect society from some of the ghouls that will be introduced by this convention, saying they need two more MPs to bring down this government. So at least I'm being exposed to something that's in the background. And I'm asking a question, what if this convention is actually well used and a time bomb to bring down this government for some reason? What if all these people are in some way who honestly believed that this Istanbul Convention was some sort of evil that would arise, some kind of adhesion, some kind of ideology, which if they were actually, perhaps used as someone's A lever to come to power? [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79009	Thank you. Hey, buddy Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79010	That's exactly what my colleague Irene is talking about. I justifiably doubt the Christian intentions and Christian initiatives of those who, from last night to this day, are trying to gather some new majority to bring down power, the current power, and I agree with you that there must be something else in the background. The backdrop is the destabilisation of HDZ, the destruction of Prime Minister Plenkovic. And to Croatia, I am neither a member of the HDZ nor a member of the SDP thank God, Croatia needs a strong HDZ and a strong SDP as the leading two largest political parties to carry out true real reforms in Croatia at the most recent time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79011	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79012	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm glad our ministers are here today, all the ministers with us tonight. I've been the victim of violence from my husband for over 25 years. When I gave birth to another child, he started drinking intensely. At first, he beat me with his fists, accused me of having a lover, taking money, and denying me and my children food. Then I could still complain to my relatives and friends, and now everyone's avoiding me on the street. When the sons grew up, he threatened us with a knife, forced the pitchforks and axes around the yard. The neighbors called the police for the first 10 years, and then they gave up. After every arrest he was even worse, the cops welcomed us on our way out soon enough. In the elementary school attended by my children, everyone knew about our situation. We were visited several times by social workers, hospitalized multiple times, broken bones, stabbed. Last time six months ago, I was lying unconscious on the kitchen floor for two days before he called an ambulance. They told me I was lucky to be alive. My older son saved himself, went to his cousin abroad, stopped answering me, was no longer so lucky, died five years ago because of a sepsis caused by an injury he did not seek medical attention in due time. Lydia. That's the name of this woman who experienced this, she doesn't know right now that there's a debate here tonight about the Istanbul Convention because there's no television or electricity in the house that's been unplugged. She lost her job a long time ago, friends and support and trust in institutions. Now he's just hoping that his husband won't be coming back from prison soon because the next beating won't survive. And today, here in the Croatian Parliament, I will speak for her, on behalf of all women and all children exposed to domestic violence, which, despite all the laws passed, we have failed to prevent, and therefore it is necessary to ratify the Istanbul Convention. In the name of all those women whose lives we can still save, in the name of all the children whose childhoods we can save, who suffer daily. And because of that, I as Ines Strenja-Linić and as a representative of the Most, as a Catholic, will invite all of you to imagine yourself in the depths of your soul and put on the scale of whether the argumentation of those who are against the ratification of the Istanbul Convention is really stronger than what we want to achieve by ratification? It should become a legal instrument whose purpose and sole purpose is to prevent violence against women and that is where any debate on the Convention should be stopped. I think it is necessary to distinguish the imposition of an ideological discourse from the adoption of an international legal document that allows legal protection of victims of domestic violence. According to data from the Ministry of Interior from 2012 to 2017, 90 women were killed in Croatia by their partners. So femicid is 25% of all homicides, and our public space contaminate with unspeakable views, not only of the convention, but of society in general today, social relations still colored by misogynism, sexism, dominant patriarchal. Different political actors seek to control and sexually, control women, whose subordination is mirrored at all levels today. The reason for more than 11,000 misdemeanors for domestic violence in 2017 is in the formalist, disorganised and domestic violence-free system of protection and support of victims. Exceptionally mild penalty policy of the judiciary against the offenders, the overall ineffectiveness of the implementation of the victim's protective measures, with a low number of measures taken, a lack of quality and long-term rehabilitation programmes of the perpetrators, which is very important and primarily psychosocial treatment. And lastly, I'm going to quote a theologian you may have read, perhaps you've heard, who may not have been able to reach the public enough, a woman from Zadar who was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, theologian Rafay who said: I am for ratification because I believe neither the state nor the church act appropriately in order to prevent violence. As a Christian, the following gospel that is against every violence, I see no ideological recommendations in this convention, but a document whose ratification would contribute to reducing violence, especially gender-related violence that is not yet discussed in the church. I believe that within the Catholic Church there are no sermons that would speak against violence against women. We Christians must not be passive about this matter and make mistakes if we are against ratification because we are then against the fundamental Christian value of righteousness, so within theology it is necessary to work on a dialogue with science and to update church doctrine in relation to the social context. And to conclude, I would just like to say that all the measures provided for in the Convention therefore strengthen family foundations and links to prevent and fight major violence, the main reason for the destruction of the family, and the only reason is violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79013	Thank you. Next individual debate, dear colleague Miro Kovac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79014	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Minister and Secretary of State. Here it is, we heard in the Parliament, that it is interesting to have different opinions, views and in Croatian society, and we noticed, we realized, that in HDZ, we have a very interesting, lively debate and that is positive. I personally think it's very positive and I'm not among those who say it's bad for HDZ. No, HDZ is the main party in Croatia and the only force that can transform Croatian society and we are aware of these obligations and forces. I'm aware of those strengths and obligations. And precisely on the basis of this convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, we have shown that we are and can be a democratic party and make a step forward on this plan. Not only in HDZ itself, but also in Croatian society. This is a step for Croatian democracy, a step and in my party, I am proud of it. I'm very proud of it. The convention as such, that's where we agree. very noble with its purpose. We want mechanisms to fight violence against women, to fight domestic violence. However, when we look at Croatian laws, we are cornered. They've already implemented everything. And we can be proud of the Croatian government, which has made the plan a big step. Congratulations to the government that almost everything or almost all the measures contained in the convention have been implemented in Croatian laws, it is an honor. What is controversial is that, that this is the first document, an international document that imposes the definition of gender, gender, no more Mr. Hajdukovic, no longer exists in the Croatian Constitution. The term line doesn't exist on an EU contract, please find it, Gender, it's gone. The term family, not in the EU's first international paper, on fighting, on mechanisms to combat violence against women, is one document from South America, Atlantic America, where there is also no definition of gender. He's got an appointment, Gender, in English, but there's no definition. And this is the first document that has a definition, which is binding. And colleagues have already implicated that definition before me. Not to go into detail. So we have a biological sex on one side if you want, we have a social sex. And what is now the idea of people who are proponents of birth theory that we are born with sex, however, that the environment then makes us a man or a woman, that's the theory. When someone tells you that this theory doesn't exist, so make sense to my people. The birth theory, which contains the word stork and if there was no birth theory, there would be no such expression in that convention at all. You understand Gender studies, it's one study group that can, it can study angles. in the lands of the Anglossa world. Cambridge University has Gender studies. So Gander, the stork, so it exists. And don't say it doesn't exist. This exists and is imposed in this Convention as an obligation to define gender. Is he necessary at all? Is this convention even necessary for you to have a definition of gender? It's not. And why is that in there? Well, we can talk about it for hours. Because someone might want, as Spiegel wrote, 12, 13 years ago to create a new man. Is Spiegel a right-wing leaf, Mr. Giujic, not, but a left-wing liberal leaf. So it's not a mirage, there's a birth theory and there's also a stork, it's in there, it's got to be accepted and it's a central concept for the implementation of this convention and there's no possibility of putting reservations on the use of the definition of gender and it's clear as day. And that's what's problematic in Croatia. But not only in Croatia, we had a vote in the European Parliament last year at 9 months. Mr Tajani, who is the President of the European Parliament, has not pressed the button, he is from the European political party, no one is saying that he is a right-handed, backward, that he knows nothing. Mr. Webber, our colleague, president of the CSU Club, didn't press the button. Mrs. Rachida Dati, French, Justice Minister, while Sarkozy was president, did not press the button. And no problem at all. It means there's still one problem. That people have problems with the term of gender and tell me what it's going to do to me. If we have in the Croatian Constitution, gender equality as a value, and if we have the same, it is very clear that we are combating discrimination, based on sex, sexual orientation, what kind of gender, if we can put it all into concept, sex, sexual orientation, as is the case with the EU Treaty and the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. When things like this are current, then the Usus is acquired in the countries of democracy, in the democracies of free, democratic, legal order, as is Croatia to vote by conscience. Last year at the 7th month in Bundenstage, same sex marriages. 70% of the CDU members were against it and Mrs. Merkel was against it, CSU 82%, the SPD was mostly for it and passed the law. Seven years ago, artificial insemination of preimplantation diagnostics. So the test tube, the tube embryo, is being examined by defects genetically possible before implanting it into the uterus. The parties split both the SPD and the CDU and the CSU, and all after that, when it passed, they remained normal, no consequences were, the society worked. It's a vote of conscience. And what does the Croatian Constitution say when we talk about conscience? He says in Article 17, even in the event of a direct threat to the survival of the state, it is not possible to limit the application of the provisions of the Constitution on the right to life, the prohibition of torture, cruel or humiliating treatment or the punishment of legal determination and criminal offences and penalties, and to free up thoughts, consciences and religion. So that we, our distinguished colleagues and colleagues here at HDZ, who have had a very lively and internal debate, have made one step for our party and since we agree with the definition that HDZ is the central party in Croatia that can transform Croatian society, we have therefore made a step for Croatian democracy which I am personally very, very proud of, and therefore I will very clearly say, since I am handling this thought the same way that I am, I mean, and I am, therefore I am going to act on my conscience, and I will not be able to support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, but I remain a normal man and I will fight every day for that there is no violence in families, against women or children, and neither will have that. And when we talk about Croatia, when we talk about the church in Croatia, it was always a factor, it was in power in Croatia left or right, it always was, and even now in France, which is the lay state pair of excellence where Mr. Macorn's president was invited by the French Bishop's Conference to give a speech and he invited the Catholic Church in France and Catholics to political engagement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79015	There are three replicas, first in line, dear fellow Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79016	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Kovac, thank you very much for this explanation and how you explained to us what gender ideology is and what it contains. Now I'm much smarter after hearing you, thank you. What I'm saying is, I'm seeing you as a man who has no problem expressing his position ever. For the first time, that courage of yours came into my eyes when the press asked you what you thought about the appointment of Mr. Stier to be Minister of Foreign Affairs instead of you, so you said it was the ultimate nonsense. That was very brave back then. I also remember that you and your colleagues three years ago called the SDP government to ratify the Istanbul Convention. So I'm curious, since you're a person who has no problem expressing your position when you've changed your attitude? Because knowing you and following your work so far I'm sure you thought otherwise you'd tell your colleagues just a little bit, let me say two things and then you'd explain what a stork is and what's wrong with all this. Here, I'm just curious when you changed your attitude on the walk?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79017	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79018	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Djujic, I'm glad you won't have to enroll in... At Cambridge University, if I had convinced you, it's a pleasure that you still accept my persuasion skills, it's a pleasure, it fills me with joy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as my colleagues are concerned, I was at that press conference, and I said the following. So I said then, I said on behalf of the party's presidency, on behalf of the male part of the party, I join in condemning every form of violence against women in society. I express my support for women's equal status in Croatian society and the evaluation of women's status in Croatian society. That's what I said, that was my position in 2014, 25.11. I kind of felt like you were going to ask that question, so now I've read a quote, a quote of what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79019	The second line is a respected colleague, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79020	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Kovac, in the name of not the democracy we are developing in HDZ, I need to replicate two things for you. So gender and gender distinction, which you have been opposed to in the Istanbul Convention for a long time has existed in Croatian legislation. Even Pope Francis in his encycle Amoris Laetitia says that gender and sex can differ, they can't separate, that's what my colleague Stier was talking about, I couldn't replicate him, I wasn't there at the time. And it should be shown how and how gender and gender differ in this convention. When you say that gender is not an integral part of the Croatian Constitution, then I will remind you of what the Constitutional Court said before the referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage in November 2013. "The rights of all persons, regardless of gender and gender, to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and their human dignity and legal facts are also protected and are today considered to be a lasting value of the Croatian constitutional state." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79021	Thank you. Here's your colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79022	Thank you very much, Arsen, for taking over. So this, please, means like this, dear esteemed colleague Bačić and club president, I was talking about the Croatian Constitution and not the Constitutional Court, so I'm talking about the Croatian Constitution, I was quoting the Croatian Constitution. Another thing, when it comes to gender, is that it is often mistranslated. A colleague of the Voice just quoted the German bishop's conference. In German there is only one word, called geschlecht, and when they spoke of geschlecht they thought of biologistisches geschlecht, not so on. ... Geschlecht, therefore we can talk about this text, is certainly not a genealogy, so we know what I'm talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79023	Don't throw it away, please, later at the bar. And finally, respected colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79024	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Kovac, I will try to refer to two things. The first thing is absolutely I think it's good that we think differently, and it's good that we vote differently, and it's good that we argue differently because it's just a value, but it's very interesting that here you praise the party where you are and have decided to show that on what? At the weakest in society, in women, in the problem of abuse of women, in the problem of domestic abuse, and in this problem we have now suddenly shown, that is, you show this diversity and that democracy. It might be good to show up on other things, but you've decided on the weakest things in society to show what it is. And something about the church, you know, there's something called small and big Croats. It's small ones who get baptized when they're small, and it's big ones who get baptized when they're big and it's good, let's say, if we had only one minimum standard, that Claire from the altar has the same ban on speaking on election silence because then the results might be a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79025	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79026	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've never managed the category of small and large Croats. There are no big and small Croats for me. There are only Croats. And those who feel like such. I may be of foreign origin, but if they feel like it, they want to be Croats for me are Croats. So there is no greater or less conscience, I have my conscience, you have your conscience, everyone votes on their conscience, everyone believes what they want to believe, and I accept it. But I'm sad to hear from you that we're supposed to be living on the weakest. That's not true. We here, we are not talking about, we are not questioning mechanisms to combat violence against women, we are only talking about the definition of gender and that it is a binding category in this Convention and I do not accept it. Nothing else. So don't insinuate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79027	Let's move on, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79028	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we've been discussing this for a long time. If we were to do a survey now among those who are opposed to the Istanbul Convention, probably no one would respond to what is gender ideology, and those who might answer what is gender ideology would not be able to explain why this gender ideology threatens Croatian society. Therefore, in a brief debate, not to take up time for all of us who have stayed here, I must make it clear that there is no gender ideology in this Convention, there is only the right of a woman to live without birth-related violence and that is the main message we must send and which we are sending through the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. However, it is only the first step in the fight against violence against women, against domestic violence and all other forms of violence that we can face in Croatian society. Of course, I will refer to messages from the altar, messages from church dignitaries who used Easter this year for their messages terrorising citizens who did not think as church dignitaries, as they used Christmas a few years ago when they went to health education in Croatian schools where they felt that some kind of gender ideology was also being introduced that would destroy Croatian youth. A few years have passed since health education in all schools, as the module of gender and gender equality and responsible sexual behavior has been conducted, I have not noticed that there has been any major disturbance among young people in Croatia. Also, since Mrs. Murganic is here, I hope that she will prove herself right, not Mrs. Brave, and that the version of the family law that has appeared, which points out that more extramarital communities will not have the same rights as marriage communities, or that in schools she will learn in a way that respects the religious and philosophical beliefs of parents rather than scientifically founded facts, it should be the next step that should ensure that we go forward in Croatia rather than go back to the Middle Ages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79029	There's no replica, so we're going to the next debate. Dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79030	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, listening to the debate all day about this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention and preventing the fight against violence against women. The truth is a lot of things are said, but I would like to look back on some of the things that I've been thinking about reading this convention and I have to admit that when I did that, I didn't have this document about the Council of Europe convention that actually explains certain articles, and only then did I actually see through these explanations of certain things that didn't fall into my eyes at the time. So I certainly didn't talk to these church dignitaries in such a way as to bring my judgment on all of this, but I was guided by one logic, reason, all of what was actually happening in these today for 31 days in the media space related to the Istanbul Convention, so 31 days is talked about the Istanbul Convention. I don't know if any of the topics in the last three or four years have prompted as much attention as this convention, noting that as far as I know, the Republic of Croatia has signed about 402 conventions, so international agreements. So what I noticed and what I see in society, which is that it polarized. So, I can and I don't have to accept the fact that my electoral body and the constituency I'm in may not have read enough, I don't know, maybe the arguments that have been put up for this Istanbul convention haven't been well explained to them. But believe me, any argument actually refutes the perception of the Istanbul Convention in a way that in this polarization, in fact, and from the words of the Easterners it happened that they explained it and talked about gender ideology. So in the convention itself, when you look at Articles 2, 3, 4, 6, 12, 14, 18, 49 and 60, it's about gender-based ideology, it's about gender, it's about gender-founded violence against women. Now, in preparation for the Istanbul Convention and for this debate, of course, I also saw that technical part related to the convention of its only adoption or signing of this Istanbul Convention by the Kukuriku Coalition at that time in January 2013 and in fact their statements that came at that time did not accept this convention, they all spoke in turn because they could not provide sufficient resources. I'm not going to talk about these funds here as much as she would be, but the fact is that from the convention you have to provide help not only through security houses but through free legal aid, through social workers, doctors, psychologists. Of course, if there are children, children’s kindergartens, schools, health care, and child abuse must also be provided for abused women. Now, some countries have not ratified the Istanbul Convention because it is said and it is said that they have actually implemented all the measures in the Istanbul Convention in their national legislation. So the Republic of Croatia passed the Law on the Protection of Family Violence, we discussed it in the Croatian Parliament in the 7th month of last year and it entered into force on 1 January 2018. At that time, some statistical indicators were also discussed in the light of this law, as well as the reduction of violence against women in the family. At the time when this law was passed, it was also discussed the implementation of certain directives and was mentioned the truth, the Istanbul Convention and discussed the access of services to support victims of domestic violence, the right to effective psychological assistance, the right to protection against intimidation and retribution, the right to accompany a person of trust, the right to be informed, without undue delay, of the suspension or escape of defendants, etc., etc. We passed the Penal Code, we passed the Law on Criminal Procedure, we passed the Law on Monetary Compensation of Victims of Crimes, the Law on Police Affairs, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, and the National Strategy on the Protection of Family Violence during 2017 to 2022, which itself contains 33 prevention measures related to the Istanbul Convention. Today, it was actually possible to talk about the concept of sex and the concept of gender. Therefore, the Convention in Article 3(c) defines the concept of gender for the purposes of the Convention itself, in a way that marks the socially shaped roles of behaviour, activity and characteristics that a particular society considers appropriate for a woman and a man. The clarification of this Convention in point 33 states, among others, that the basic gender is based on two sexes, male and female, which explains that there are socially constructed roles of behaviour, activity, attributes which a particular society considers appropriate for women and men but also points out that the term of gender is not intended as a replacement for the terms of women and men used in the convention. That specifically stands in this clarification. In point d, gender-founded violence against women is defined as violence directed at a woman because a woman or who is disproportionately affected by a woman. So here this notion of gender could be interpreted as gender because it does not refer to socially shaped roles but to the biological sex of women. The fact is that the concepts of gender and gender are used as synonyms in a number of documents. The example can be found in the convention itself, where in the preamble, in the second paragraph of the Croatian translation, gender standards and mechanisms are discussed. And that's explained in English but also in French. The introduction of the concept of gender identity is set out in Article 3(3) and is further explained in this Convention 53 and says that certain groups of individuals can also experience discrimination based on their birth identity, which simply means that the genus with which the identity is not in accordance with the sex assigned to them at birth. Now we only have five minutes, right, for the individual? Just two more minutes. [[Two more minutes.]] I would just like to say that in certain documents, let's say the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, for the purposes of this Statute, sex is marked by both genders male and female in the context of their social roles and differences, and in the UN Convention, the removal of all forms of discrimination of women is not really used by the concept of genders as gender-based differences. So maybe what I find problematic is art. Article 12 14. where it's actually about stereotyped roles of women and men. I don't think that's good, I don't think a GRAVIO can judge it, there's no definition, there's no certain criteria, and then it's said that it would be promoted to educational institutions. So it's just not good. Since colleagues also talked about the works of birth theory, I'm not going to talk about it. I only mention, not mentioning at all the church or Claire, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts as a roof scientific institution which has also given its opinion and which is relevant to me. What I also want to say from these 12 chapters regarding the Istanbul Convention, I think we should think about two things. We are a receptive tourist country, last year we had 17 million tourists, and as you remember, in 3 years we had over 660 thousand refugees who went through a transit through the Republic of Croatia. If you look at the chapter on migration and asylum, you'll see that at that point that any abuse of women that would happen in the Republic we have to take care of, we need to talk about it, you have to have a uniform court practice, you have to have translators, which would almost be impossible to do, and that's again I'm saying, one extra cost. You and similar reasons actually lead me to think about it very well and I think, personally, the Istanbul Convention is not acceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79031	Thank you. We have one replica, dear fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79032	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Babic, I've contacted you just for this last 30 seconds. So, when you said that if there were any abuse of women or someone in the way of the migrant crisis, then we would have to act in our area, of course, the Republic of Croatia, then we would have to act, we would have to finance it and take care of it. And what are we supposed to do, by you? There's been abuse in the Republic of Croatia, and what are we going to say? Ha, we don't have to do that, you're not our citizens, you're here in passing, so we'll push them further into the neighbouring country, so let's think about them I don't know, Slovenia or Hungary, if there's no wire. That's a little problematic for me, and when you talk about the financial part of this aspect, we're out of recession today. So the government boasts super results, increased VAT revenues, GDP growth. So I don't see the problem. Now we're in a situation where we can financially endure it, and if we couldn't handle it, then the government and the Ministry wouldn't even propose it. Please, just give me the last answer because I didn't catch you there. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79033	Replication response, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79034	Yeah, it's been too long. So, I was talking about having to think about that in such situations, we're a receptive country, 17 million tourists were, say, last year in the Republic of Croatia. You can't ignore that fact and I speak hypothetically, so it can happen that refugees who go through the Republic of Croatia, say from Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria by coming to the Republic of Croatia can say that they were abused. You must then run this whole spectrum of shops, I say both judicial and translation and practice which we do not actually know as such in the Republic of Croatia. As for the 18 countries that ratified the Istanbul Convention, you know that according to the article. 78nd, 2nd century, detentions or reserves related to the Istanbul Convention itself may be placed in certain articles. Some countries have taken advantage of all these articles, such as one Germany, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, Austria has just placed such reserves for damages to victims, where the perpetrator is unable to settle that damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79035	Thank you. We're going to the next debate. Dear colleague Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome four distinguished women. So these are two vice-presidents and even three ministers and a secretary of state and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. So, the fight against violence, I don't think there's a more noble social goal and not just against women, but against children, against all the weaker groups, and about that thing wouldn't be a big problem at all to achieve a general social consensus, I'm definitely saying so. But why is this document ahead of us, the Istanbul Convention does not have the sole purpose? So it's obvious there's no, because there's still some content here, and I think the explanation has given one of the authors, therefore, the convention that said that it was originally planned to make three conventions. One about, therefore, domestic violence, violence against women and gender violence, and that it was stepped into one, the convention and we definitely have here and the question of birth theories or gender ideology. But to what extent it helps statements I don't know, the ruling ones at the time when this Istanbul Convention came into the public interest, that there was no gender ideology here, so we had a negation of the fact that this document also includes this segment. So it's actually a detachment from the scope of debate because if there's nothing, and it's actually controversial in Croatian society, then we can't discuss it at all, so it's a deviation from dialogue, from reasoned debate, so, from what should be one value, especially in parliament, and then it should be nurtured in society. I don't know how to understand laughing. ... Was there anything irregular? [[You can't hear it.]] Okay, so let me get on with it. [[No, no, internally something, I apologize.]] I say, the negation of the problem of gender ideology in this document has distanced the whole society from the possibility of debate and I think it's very bad and that it created the atmosphere of the camp, so basically trenches where it only communicated between groups through the aim or by accusing, the labels, the insults that we could finally hear here. My position on the Istanbul Convention is that I cannot support this document for three basic reasons. The first is, we have experienced several countries for several years and it is evident that the fact that these countries ratified the document did not lead to a desirable result, which is to reduce violence against women. This means that it should definitely rely first on domestic legislation, work on the development and implementation of the legislation itself, as well as on implementation. Secondly, the second reason is that the interpretation that there is only one benign way in the Istanbul Convention and at the same time there are definitions of gender and gender, or gender, that separates from biological biology, so one social construct that creates a whole new social opportunity, so it certainly cannot be by chance because it is clear that such a convention is being prepared by legal experts and that in the end everything that is currently the will of certain structures is contained in them. Of course, there is a very important question here, and that is to what extent this fact helps the quality of this document to combat what should be, the first thing that is highlighted and that is the fight against violence against women. The third thing is that the ratification of this Convention is, in fact, subject to arbitrary interference in the internal legal order, so legislation, judiciary and education, as well as on an independent supervisory body that has quite high powers. However, not only are the powers to comment, edit, determine some things, but also give away financial resources. We heard different information about how much this would cost Croatia, so today we finally heard that 70 million kunas are scheduled per year but for associations. The associations of course which here have large specific associations dealing with this issue, which here intend to play a very important role. 70 million kuna is presented as just one little thing. I will remind you of another association or one institution in fact it is the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. I don't know if it's familiar to you or the Croatian public that the HGSS gets anything more than 10 million kunas a year. So 10 million kuna for an unusually good result, for an excellent service that is capable of 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to react and expose itself to any weather conditions at any position in Croatia, also help neighbouring countries. If that were the case with these organizations that we are going to help out with this convention, it would be a great result, but I'm not sure because there's enthusiasm in the HGSS, love of nature, therefore quite an important set. And we'll have to make sure it can be in other areas. Well, in the end, I would end up with one appeal that a different opinion, a different view about certain things, is valued as one of the qualities of society, so pluralism, the diversity of opinion, so the use of words as an instrument of influence on one another, so the word to which arguments are being built and to which counterarguments are going, and then in one way or another defines opinions, positions on some important social issues. We didn't have this here, but we had busy positions and a moment of labelling, a back-to-back approach, a Middle Ages or I don't even know the insults that definitely don't go to create a society where different opinions, respects, respects and builds society and achieves consensus wherever possible. So I would like it not to be so, and here I invite all of us to change our behavior in this regard. I think the result could also be significant on these threats that individual representatives receive because people don't need much when they see such rhetoric or such an approach in Parliament, they only know how to add we have a very bad social outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79037	Thank you, too. We have two more discussions. The first is a respected colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79038	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Since I'm finally here, I'll somehow take the opportunity to sublime all these previous discussions. Someone here said the Istanbul Convention shared Croatia. Well, it wasn't the Istanbul Convention or any document shared by Croatia, but I would say by my deep conviction it was used as some kind of tool as some sort of lever of some kind that had other goals. Here I am not thinking of an esteemed colleague, but of some others, and it is known who today communicated in what way both through the media and here in the Parliament. The question can be asked, several questions, which are here and asked, and let me round them up in some way, is this document, at all, so powerful that it can enable some kind of rooted out, changing the fundamental value of the family, the fundamental postulate of Croatian society? Is this document so powerful that it will violate the basic definition of family, when I say, the basic definition of family, I mean man, woman, child, children? Whether it will be possible to introduce, for example, 5 years, 10, 15, 6 months. native neutral kindergartens such as in Sweden or middle sex Hen, like in Sweden or some kind of novelty as they are called in Canada or in some other countries. So if one of these questions were to be answered, I would not personally support this document, which is, however, a hand to heart, one of the not very high-quality ones written by the Council of Europe, which I am responsible for, because I have several colleagues working in the Council of Europe and also a new Commissioner Dunja Mijatovic, who has been appointed recently known to her for many years, since before. So, the Council of Europe had more skillfully written documents, which were, so to speak, more explicitly written, more precisely, and then what eventually opened the space of some dubious, some wrong interpretations, what is not accurate, therefore, causes certain interpretations, raises certain doubts, certain uncertainty, and that this Convention is better engaged, that it is clearer, that it is more clear, and then the Director of the Council of Europe himself, for the first time, as far as I know, gave an additional statement to this Convention in which he has a need to highlight what is not in this Convention. And, and it could be misreaded for that to happen. The question was whether there was a possibility of equating same - sex marriages in a future. Well, I'm responsible for saying there's not a single shred of it in this convention. And what everyone will be asked logically, and I have asked myself several times, if this Convention does not answer yes to any of these categories, I couldn't even count them all, then whether this Convention, this document, in some subsequent period, any elements that could compromise or a family, as the basic unit of society, or introduce any new one, as the anti-natural order or anything like that is said. Well, obviously not. And I repeat, once again, my opinion based on international law, therefore, on two interpretations of experts, which are not only international legal experts, but also judges of the European Court of Human Rights, who explicitly say that the adoption of the Convention of the Republic of Croatia, does not impose any need for any change in this regard, in a legal sense. Therefore, once again, this add-on to the government, this interpretative statement, so it's not some Croatian fiction, it's a legitimate legal document, which is used and used, and it's not true that it doesn't have any legal effect. And if it is clearly said that, if it is said clearly that there is no introduction of any new order, if it is clearly said that there is no new change in the definition of marriage, that there is no introduction of any gender neutral kindergartens, and what do I know about everything, if all this is clearly said and such a legal document is still given in addition to the convention, so I really don't understand, how is it wise to claim the opposite? The fact that some state, for example, introduced Sweden into its legislative framework, something or went in some direction 10 degrees away from another country, which they chose, does not mean that this government, or that the Republic of Croatia, wants or has to go in that direction. But whether a future government will go that way in 10, 15, 25 years, it really doesn't depend on this convention, but it doesn't depend on us here either. That will have something to do with these governments. What I'd really like to say is that I can't take the impression that this convention is used as something that's so far unseen, at least by my own personal impression, that it wants to impose some supernatural evil. Because the fact that we've been suffering for the past month, I really don't know, of course I don't need to say, I don't need sympathy or compassion from anyone, because otherwise Parliamentarians aren't the category that respected citizens would too, with whom respected citizens would feel too much compassion, but this amount of insult, humiliation, spitting, living, cursing, and ultimately threatening and all to say professionally, mental pains that we have endured, we, but not just us and our families and our children and our husbands and everything in the name of what? In the name of who? I wonder where the prudence went. My colleague Vučetic had a great discussion and really talked about pure Catholic science. And in the last month, so many times my conscience has been questioned that I don't really know anymore, in which way we've even communicated to someone in the first place something sensible, when there's no reasonableness here. I still haven't heard the answer to the question where is the commitment of Croatia, that Croatia will have to go in the direction of this famous Canada or Sweden, where is the commitment if Croatia doesn't want it? No one answered that here, and the gender ideology with which the Talambasa here all along, I didn't purposely want to replicate, is an uncanny colloquial term that has been commonly used and is actually marked by gender equality in a way that wants to end egalitarian society in some way, starting from the point of view that the traditional social structure should remain the way it is. And now there's a lot of absurdity, as she says, in everyone and in anything you can say bad, it just needs a reason. But in the end, I'm going to say, my conscience, whatever it is, I guess one day someone will judge it whether it's right or wrong or not, tells me never to hate it, not to use a hate speech. I don't think you've ever heard me say that in that speech here, I don't think you'll even hear me because it's unnatural to me, and I didn't report any of these e-mails and text messages on purpose because I want to show that I don't want to return the same measure because I live by respecting others and I don't do to others what I don't want others to do to me. And that's why it's really unclear how it's possible for so many people in the name of faith to send so many hate speech, threats, blackmail, as he said, again for the second time I'm going to mention to a colleague of Vučetic, obviously Jesus himself would rather forgive some people than some people and what individuals claim that this convention brings, I really respect pluralism of thinking, and it's legitimately right for everyone to claim it, but if I'm perhaps mistaken and deceived that this document doesn't bring it, I don't see it, then wouldn't it be logical that those believers who do this beg God to forgive me for this sin, because I'm wrongly reasoning, but what if I'm not deceived, but someone else, and what if this document is really just an excuse for something else? That's what we all need to ask ourselves, in my deep conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79039	Thank you. We have one replica, dear fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79040	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, you are not deceived, nor are you in error, you think very well, and I why did I answer? I answered, you're asking how people fill their faith so spread that hatred? Look, we've been witnesses for years, I say it, I happen to run into something, they tell me something, I pass on something and I look at it because I'm interested, but for years we've been witnessing a TV show of a convicted drug dealer who paid prostitutes with cocaine every day running a campaign, he's a crusader of our time and he's running a campaign against all of us who don't think, on behalf of the church, on behalf of the faith, he's calling MPs and he's escalating it now, day by day. And in a normal state, such a person shouldn't get a public space at all, let alone have his own show on 15 TVs. Just what happened now? Many government officials today have been frequent guests there, only now it's coming back to them all, but let's say that's a problem we're going to have to talk about soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79041	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79042	So on the seriousness and arguments of some individuals, the best answer to my question yesterday is whether the person elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Community and who sat in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community yesterday read the basic document, which is the electoral programme which on page 94 says: we will fully fulfil our obligations to the Convention, etc. If a person hasn't read it, for me it's something that's unserious, that level of approach to the problem, that level of argumentation, or unargumentation is something that I find simply unacceptable in my professional and personal life, so I really don't think I should comment on it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79043	Thank you. We're going to the last debate. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79044	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, in your statement that you have received threats and have not reported them, you will have to formulate them a little differently, and that is that you did not take them seriously because your duty is to report a criminal offence, and the threat is a criminal offence, and not to report a crime is also a criminal offence. So as far as this issue is concerned, it's quite said, but this is actually not a debate on the Istanbul Convention, this is a debate on a much wider social topic. A similar debate, with a little less passion, took place in this assembly 10 years ago when the Government, led by Mrs Jadranka Kosor, I think Mr. President that you were the same vice president of the government, proposed to the Croatian Parliament the Law on Discussing Discrimination of Discrimination. And then from the circles from which criticism can now be heard at the Istanbul Convention, there was a problem with the concept of gender, gender identity, etc. We could also hear what would happen in Croatia if the law was passed, and in the end it turns out that nothing happened, and unfortunately, not even if the provisions of the law were not applied, and then the Croatian Democratic Community Club sent an amendment to delete the words of birth identity from Article 1 of that law, however, and then part of the HDZ that was politically stronger in the government, and eventually the club withdrew the amendment. So we haven't seen anything new. It's not about the Istanbul Convention, it's about who's power, or who has influence on power or who thinks they can influence power. And this is actually one battle between whether we are really a secular state or in this country a church through elected representatives can also affect large political decisions and so what it represents is imposed on other citizens who are not members of the faith that is currently dominant in Croatia. The other problem with the church is that even part of the believers do not adhere to what they advocate, but it is not the problem of the rest of the population. What you said was that you are suffering insults, spits and the like of Bojana as much as that tent was 550 and a few days 550 with a line, this is 31 day as Mr Babic said somewhere else by my modest calculations fifteen times shorter suffered something colleague Bojan Glavasevic, colleague Fred Matic and others who were more exposed in the government. On the other hand, HDZ officials then visited the tent, and the biggest contempt for the institutions was shown by the president of the Republic on the day the first institution she visited was an extra-institutional tent outside the ministry. And that's why those who say he's been released from the bottle for the time being are in the administration and now choose to return that spirit back to the bottle of you HDZ if you're able to do it, and I'm rooting for you in this. It won't help you very much with these others, but I have the right to say that. It is the task of parliamentary deputies to identify citizens who have elected them in their positions. I hope that the citizens and our voters and other citizens in the views that I have expressed behind the speaker in the views expressed by SDP representatives that they can be recognised as being able to recognize themselves as their views. 90% of SDP voters are for ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and I believe that 100% of SDP representatives will be for ratification of the Istanbul Convention. As for what I was saying on behalf of the club and what I asked Mr. Stier anyway because in his speech, I recognized an ideological or identified him as one of the main ideologists of what I was saying at the pay phone, I put him up for questioning and got the expected answer. So this will continue, this won't fit, and I hope that this effort and this threat and this pressure that HDZ advocates are suffering over this that they won't be compensated for the solutions to the abortion law on medically assisted insemination, family law and other laws. As we arrived Thursday because it was past midnight, and today is Friday, I will finish my apology, not today is Thursday because it was past midnight, and yesterday was Wednesday, and tomorrow is Friday, my colleague, Djujic, I hope that we can agree on this in the party, that this will also be the case at the HDZ club. Now I have to take a creative break. So since we entered Thursday, and tomorrow's vote I hope this bill will pass tomorrow, and these other plans on the abolition of abortion, the IPO, the Family Law and not the equalisation of extramarital communities will pass in this country a little tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79045	Okay. This led us to the end of an individual debate. Minister Murganic asked to address eventually on behalf of the promoter, the final address. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79046	Thank you. Here's a really very short closing address, it's too late that it wouldn't happen to me tomorrow and yesterday and the day after that, a little joke. I wanted to point out, in any case, that any further explanation now or that I'm just saying some sort of persuasion would be too much for one reason that we had really one quality debate. It was also said from the heart and from the mind, that all the discussions were prepared, reasoned and clear what was recognised that in their views it was seen that we were not able to convince each other or those who at first had already expressed themselves against in their position to vote on the Istanbul Convention, I doubt that the debate shows that they had changed their mind, but here is another few hours until the opportunity to change that too. But also nothing because if or not because here, everyone has determined that this is one level of democracy, but also what is very important, it is important that we have reached a consensus that we are all for the protection of all those who are exposed to violence. So whether the convention will be adopted 100%, obviously not, but I believe we will adopt it. That was the purpose of this bill and this debate. What I would like to say is, perhaps something a little personal when we all appeal to the conscience, certainly the fact that we all have, thank God by that we are human beings, but when we have some or some dilemma about whether they have made a good decision when they voted for the Istanbul Convention, then I think we should be guided by that thought that stands in the title of protection against violence against all and those who have sex separated from gender, whether if we have such citizens, and we have them, whether we will protect them from violence and give them all those rights as well as everyone else. Here's what I think is very simple, the simplest layman's word for it is when we discuss these topics that get so intertwined, gender, gender, gender ideology and everything else. Once again, some discussions were inspired, very prepared, and that is something that has contributed I think in that educational sense to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79047	Thank you and the minister. I'd like to thank everyone for the debate, I think she was very good, correct, tolerant to the greatest extent possible. Yeah, and the new Rules of Procedure passed the test, and I think there were a number of individual discussions, so we can seem to be satisfied. We will continue tomorrow with work, that is, at 9.30 p.m. today, a proposal to launch a trust issue between the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Minister of Economy in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if there is time, we will also work on the Proposal for a Foundation for the Health of the SDP Club and also on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the transfer of founding rights to the University North to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you again, everyone, and good night. Session interrupted at 12:10 p.m. Now we're going to vote. First, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence in the family, the emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 318. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, and I would like to ask the proposing's representative to make a statement about the amendment submitted, as will Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79049	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs, the Government does not accept an amendment that would be deleted in Article 4. The Law on Confirmation, which contains an interpretative statement concerning the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Family Violence for several reasons. The first reason is that our Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts provided for the investment of interpretative statements either on the occasion of signing, or on the occasion of the confirmation of an international contract when the state agrees to be bound by it. Secondly, the content of this interpretative statement is important for the Croatian public, given the large public debate that this convention has caused, necessary, important for all Croatian voters, for all stakeholders of this society and its content has three elements. The first is for Croatia to make clear what the importance of this convention is. This convention is about protecting women from domestic violence and domestic violence. It's the essence of the convention, we're interpreting it and that's what's important and that's why this convention and there is, we talked about it during the debate two days ago. Another important element of this interpretative statement is that we make it very clear that the Republic of Croatia does not consider this Convention to be subject to any legal obligation to introduce in its legal order or educational system the gender ideology of which has been so many words in the past days. Such obligations shall not arise from the Convention. And it's very important that everyone hears it and that you know not only the MPs but our voters and all the stakeholders of this society. And the third essential point, that this interpretative statement clearly states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79050	Prime Minister, just a second, please, time's up, but please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79051	... The Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Croatian State, that the Assembly ratifys this, believes that the Convention is in accordance with the Constitution, fundamental values and principles of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we do not accept this amendment, we believe that it is necessary and necessary and has a guide to its implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79052	Because of the public interest I let go. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79053	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the very fact that you, who is unusually explaining the amendment on behalf of the motionor to one law, speaks of the seriousness of the situation, I hope that if it is necessary for the public interest to allow me 30 seconds more. So this interpretative statement for the first time introduces into the Croatian legal system the concept of gender ideology that does not exist for us and which we believe does not exist and is unnecessary. We believe that the interpretative statement is an unnecessary submission to those who are against ratification of the Istanbul Convention not for the sake of the convention itself, but for broader reasons, and that it will not satisfy them. You have not succeeded in this interpretative statement by any representative of your party to consent to vote in favour of the Convention and have previously made a public statement against it. You tried this interpretative statement to solve the problem as you normally do, you transferred the problem from Jasenovac to Novska, but you did not avoid two memorials. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-11-0.u79054	Okay. Let us now vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move to a vote on a final proposal for a final draft law on the validation of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against domestic violence against women and violence. Please, let's vote. I find that with 110 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 30 votes against the passed Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. ... [[Applause.]] It is now up to the club of representatives of HSS respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
