ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66330	Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66331	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66332	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66333	I am looking for a break to warn you about the way the Croatian Parliament works and that we are actually discussing serious topics in the future of the Croatian Parliament behind midnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66334	Thank you. Dear colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66335	Mr. Vice President, the SDP club is looking for a half-hour break to rest a little after a full-day debate in which we actively participated to present our views on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66336	Thank you. Do we have anyone else? Thank you very much. I'm setting a break by 12:30. Thank you very much. It's 10:00, 20 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 12:30 A.M.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will give an explanation to our colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66338	I thank the chairman. In these late hours, I think it is still time to repeat what happened today by calling a thematic session on the inaccessibility of international protection for persons who must be able to seek asylum in our country. So today we witnessed a thematic session where Croatian police presented their data and showed in fact complete insensitivity to one subject that has been present for the past months and where we get real information only from NGOs and which are terrifying. This was also warned by the Ombudsman for human rights and the Ombudsman for children, and today there have been a whole series of those who care about refugees and who should be able to seek asylum. Information that we have driven 3258 people off the Croatian border without allowing them what is necessary legally and humanely, which is that they have the right to international laws, European and Croatian laws to seek asylum. Whether or not the competent authority will reject it, it is not up to a borderline officer to decide and only without access to the right to asylum chases them by shooting at the air, shooting at their feet and making it impossible for them to access. Civil society volunteers witnessed calls in the middle of the night of a family with two and three young children of a couple of years begging to come and be present at the moment when they submit an asylum application that was disabled. So what have we become as a society? The country's security is absolutely above all, our country's security, our national interest absolutely, but it doesn't necessarily have to be in cohesion with humanity. We were extremely human in 2015, 2016, it was slowly eroding. What has happened, and who has passed such regulations that make it impossible for police officers to push people off the border so that they can't seek asylum at all? We have driven more people away from our borders than the Hungarians and what we have become. Where's our humanity? I believe that Croatia is a human country, we have shown it many times. Suddenly, we come into a situation where we have cops who drive and make it impossible for families with small children without adult escorts, without control, to return and pretend that they are not some who have the right to seek asylum. Today we have witnessed the complete impunity of those who should implement these laws, practically calling the media is that the media is guilty because they are doing a problem where there are no civil associations, the female attorneys who taxively cite situations that should make us as a country of shame. So I think that Croatia has not lost its human face, someone in this country has decided that we will be xenophobic, that we will be afraid of those who should only be allowed a warm room, a warm meal, a shelter to approach to seek asylum and then our authorities decide whether they can get asylum or not. I don't think it's going to cost us too much, and I don't think I'm showing that we're more Europeans than we are showing that we're just listening to those who ordered us to close the borders. Today it was not media, but today it was necessary to listen to how the Croatian police defend themselves and declare those who are trying to give information to the media and point to this great humanitarian problem. Children without escorts, not to mention, I've already talked about them, about children we find in the Croatian area, we don't put them in special centres, we don't provide them with help, we don't cook them, we don't put them in foster homes without parental care, we put them in juvie homes where they're temporarily abused without being able to ask for help in their own language, or psychological help, or health care, and these children pass us by.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66340	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66341	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Your colleague Linic announced the current political situation, article 249 norms the reasons for not approving the break, and you spoke in your explanation of the break about the contents of the work of the working body of the Parliament. So I let you talk all the time, but please don't talk about the work of the Parliament's body in the future. It reads to you in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bulj, so read more current Article 249 b. so you will see what are the reasons for disapproval of the break. Thank you very much. We're moving on to another explanation. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66342	Ladies and gentlemen, it's been half an hour, and the debate is still going on, and you'd even dare to say the debate hasn't even started, which would mean in translation that this debate could last long in the night, the more we're more persistent today than we've ever given up on fighting. We armed ourselves with candy, fruit and other props that we need to stay to the end. Which means that Parliament officials could earn, which they do, in overtime, and that for this kind of debate at this time of night, there's really no need. So I suggest a compromise solution that, if you're tired, maybe you're not, I don't know, if you are, to postpone by, say, tomorrow morning or next week. However, if you're ready for, if you're clean, as you say by 9.30 we can actually work without a break, constantly sit as revolutionary courts in France, if necessary. As necessary. There. There's no guillotine, but there's no debate at all. And I remember when a man suggested reforming the justice system in a way... Namely, how does the court function now? Let's say, there's a debate called, then another debate is scheduled. And he suggested, in fact, that the debate lasts indefinitely until a final verdict. And so you can put all the points of the agenda here simply in the procedure and discuss without delay, rotate five presidents, or vice president of the Parliament, and you can add five more. Simple, day and night. This could be like one big-brother. And the winner is the one who remains last or better said, only question of course who will remain at the end, who will be the winner, who will turn off the light. No, the light will always be on. We'll hold out, but how will the staff of the Parliament? These people have to be at work tomorrow. Imagine if the debate lasts until 3 a.m., he must be at 7-8 here. How? So I'm saying, my proposal is socially sensitive, my proposal has been taken into account. I was just told by a colleague of the Bunyan.. He told me, Ivan, I'm the morning guy, I wake up early, my biological clock is like that, I have to sleep. I'm the one who said, "Friend of the Bun, now or never." No sleep tonight, let's get it over with tonight. This is actually a conflict of will. Who has more will. Because some think that if the debate comes in small hours, speakers lose faith, not faith, but lose the will to argue, but this timing has simply strengthened us and strengthened us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66343	Comrade Pernar, I'd just like to ask you a little I'd like to ask you a moment. [[Intruder Pernar: You can only stop time, excuse me.]] Mr. Bulj and other colleagues, please do not disturb your colleague Pernar while explaining a break about the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia. [[Pernar: I'm listening to you all, say it.]] Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66344	I suggest that the way the Parliament works, almost uninterrupted, that the same way the government does, until all the problems in the country are solved. And I think that actually the working time of the government should be extended, and Parliament should be shortened. Because basically, the government is running that policy, and so are those ministries that are responsible for sectors that may be working badly, so let them extend their working hours until the problems are resolved, or as we say, until the proposal is discussed. That's basically the solution and I say, as long as it takes, we'll stay here. Here, colleague Maras and Bauk, I believe they are also ready for a marathon session. My colleague Mrak-Taritash and Hrelja, it seems to me like they're waiting for someone to seal their guns to participate in the debate. There you go, every good. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66345	I thank my colleague Pernar. I'd like to ask you, colleagues and colleagues... Comrade Maras, if I may ask, we still have a breach of the Rules of Procedure before you do. I would ask you to maintain the level of debate that is appropriate to this high house and not to interfere with the speaker as he speaks. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66346	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He's been injured. 238, namely his colleague Pernar insulted the unintelligent management of the work of the Croatian Parliament. I also call on too much time to discuss this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66347	I thank my colleague, Sincic. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66348	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll repeat the request almost an hour ago. This doesn't make sense. This is a rape of democracy, this is harassment not of us here, but of people who work in the Croatian Parliament. I will warn you, Vice Presidents of the Parliament and Mr. Bukarica, Deputy Secretary of Parliament that people, officials, must not work in continuity for more than 16 hours. Since I've seen some people here at 8:00 in the morning, then after two hours, people shouldn't work anymore. It's a violation of the Labour Act and through a collective contract that officials have. So don't bully people, employees, employees just because Mr. Rainer and Bacic imagined it had to be today. That's all! Well, it's not Mr. Reiner, so this isn't yours, this is the Croatian Parliament. These people aren't yours at a private company employee. They have their basic labour rights, they must not work longer than 16 hours in any variant. You can't bend your wish now, your desire, and your demand to discuss it now, you can't sort it all out. I'm begging you don't do it, don't do it, no matter how much fun it is to the Shuker who smiles there. So seriously with this kind of HDZ, everyone would have problems because this has nothing to do with common sense, that at half-one just because that's how you want to discuss the Rules of Procedure so that you can drive it out the way you want to, and that people do 16 hours in continuity just because that's how Bačić and Reiner came up. Is that normal for you? Do you have a problem, Mr. Shucker? You obviously don't have a problem, but not everyone's here because of you. ... So keep your mouth shut, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is where we should work as colleagues, as representatives' clubs, to negotiate. You shouldn't have one club of MPs doing whatever they want to do at the expense of everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66349	I thank my esteemed colleague Maras for the reason of the break and I am glad that he has empathy for the employees of the Croatian Parliament, but don't worry, your colleague is all in line with the Rules of Procedure and the law, and the work inspection will do his job if something is wrong, and you won't be responsible but someone else. And whoever's harassing, let's leave it to the Croatian public to assess it. Dear colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66351	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for on behalf of the club MOST independent list break and I'm going to talk about the state of the public right in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66352	Thank you very much, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66353	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break just like 10 minutes to talk about the problem of non-democratic standards in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66354	Thank you. Dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66355	I would like to point out that it is impossible for MPs to fulfil their duties if the working hours from here are 9.30 a.m. to who knows how much in the morning. Simple That's what I'd like to talk to you about. [[Intruding Brkić: A colleague of Pernar!]] Stanku, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66356	Did you ask for a break or what? So you asked? [[I did, I did.]] Thank you very much. Anyone else? I'm setting up a break and we'll continue our work in one hour and 50 minutes. MEETING IN 01.35 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66357	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 01.50 HOURS]] And the first will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, a respected representative of Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here we will talk about the state of public administration of Croatia and some exact data. Although for 2017 we don't have full data but what we have is by the end of September. We have 233,000 866 people who are civil servants and subsistence officers in public and state bodies. So 233,000 866 people. At the end of 2015, the figure was 230 thousand 72 and in 2016. 232 thousand 240. This means that if we compare September 2017 and 2015 we have an increase of 3814 people in the public administration of Croatia. So in two years it's been in love and employed, however we take the term of 3 thousand 814 people. Since the state did not increase borders, since it did not increase the number of people, however, reduced the number of people, this phenomenon is abnormal unless it was the result of these elections that took place in 2015, 2016 and various election promises about employment in the state services. But more than that, the next fact about public administration is that we have an average rating of civil servants in all ministries for 2016 at 4.05 and in all management officials was 4.63. This means that we are doing very well by the ministries, and we are doing very well by civil servants. And here we had in this day a debate on a law where we couldn't identify and analyze 3,700 apartments to define a clear factual state to discuss this law. On 14 December 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of public administration development for the period 2017/20. The Minister of Public Administration was then Mr Ivan Kovacic. The same means the action plan applied. In February 2017, we were approved by the European Commission 880 million kuna for public administration reform, which is now in the drawers of the current minister of administration because, with the basis of the analysis, i.e. the basic postulate of public administration reform, it would be digitisation, depolitisation and rationalisation. But what exactly do we have in Croatia now? We have an HNS critic who also criticises HDZ in Dubrovnik to be employed in Croatian waters. We have an example of the former mayor of Split-Dalmatia County being awarded the same place in Croatian waters, so the deputy former Varazdin mayor of HNS is now employed by the state-owned underground gas storage company. So the former HNS director of Đakova Vodavod will be employed again in Croatia's post office. The high school is becoming general consuls, former Benkovac mayor and the HDZ parliamentary representative becomes deputy county road management. A former SDSS representative without a competition gets a job as an adviser to the director of a state-owned company, the same underground gas storage facility. Apparently, the underground storage of gas and Croatia is run by the main soft spot for entanglement of party personnel that did not show up in the local elections. But what kind of picture do we send to young people? We send the picture catastrophic so it is no wonder why 150 people leave Croatia daily, they will leave even more. Why isn't digitization going on? Or Minister Kuščević does not talk about digitisation, about certain segments of digitisation, which would mean that there should be no re-employment but employment at the same time. Digitalization, this process of the entire public administration should reduce cadence, relieve when and we see that we have an increase of 3 thousand 814 people. I told you about depoliticization, there's no need to talk about rationalization. The secretary, secretaries, various systematicisations only to take care of the party staff and while taking care of the party staff who will certainly do during the next elections the basic task of bringing all of their friends to the polls. Other people who are not given these circumstances, or all possible benefits, go to Ireland, go to Germany. So we have the first generation of students who on average are the best and they're leaving, the ones who are the worst and are employed by state firms, and then we wonder why our situation is in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66359	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Gordan Maras, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66360	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very 01.56 minutes in the morning in the assembly is our turn and by the number of six-tiers from HDZ I see partly Branko Bačić and you who are leading the session And it continues, and Shuker continues, the violence of the parliamentary majority continues. [[Intruder Reiner: You don't see well, you don't see well.]] And now I warn another chairman who should be responsible for the people in the Croatian Parliament when there is no meeting president, they work from 8 a.m. That's how I can count fast 16 hours uninterrupted. So people in general, I've read now the collective contract of officers from 8 to 12 hours except for emergency overtime which could be interpreted as this, but it can't be a rule and it can't be more than 16 hours. At this point, people are working 16 hours and probably shouldn't be working at all tomorrow after they finish work here today. So you take care of employees in the Croatian Parliament when you are not already taking care of how you behave in a normal parliamentary way. No, no, I'll speak as much as I think I should talk, and if it were a normal situation we would agree and continue the debate tomorrow morning. There would be no obstacle and no rational reason why this would not be done, because of HDZ people in the Croatian Parliament work 16 hours uninterrupted. I'm not talking about MPs, it's our job to be here if we have to, and we'll be here by morning, and if we have to, we'll have a debate open by the time we can agree to continue the debate. But there's no problem, if there's no reason for HDZ to reach such an agreement we're going to continue the debate and very simply calculate that after every debate of us here, the fifteen of us are going three breaks, that's to tell you about 25 minutes times 15, that's seven hours. There's no problem until nine, half past ten in the morning we'll be here and they'll argue again. And of course I forgot the word plus 15 minutes off, so about if we take that kind of rhythm we'll be here with this debate by eleven, half twelve. So what we've offered you to do is we can do it this way, but take care of the people. Because of your unreal and intolerant behaviour people at this time work 16 hours uninterrupted and not one, not two, but one 20, 30, 40 people in the Croatian Parliament who are here because HDZ rapes democracy and harasses employees in the Croatian Assembly with its intolerant behaviour and does not wish to agree and to continue the debate at half ten in the morning, just for that reason only because they thought it had to be so. There's no other rational reason. Why don't we stop the debate now and continue at half past ten? Here's someone to tell us, what's the reason not to do it? What does that mean to HDZ so much that it ends in two, three or five hours if it can't end from half ten to half twelve? There's no reason to be harassing people, harassing the public and harassing the opposition now with their rape of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66361	Thank you. The next club is the Living Wall in a name to be spoken by the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66362	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I could understand that we have to sit at this time that by any chance it's a matter of budget, that we're short in time or war, God forbid we're attacked by aliens, and now what we're going to have to do is either the Russians or the Chinese, etc. However, no one is attacking us, the budget has long been passed, there is no reason for this kind of debate. Discussing at 2:00 a.m. on amendments to the Rules of Procedure is absurd to me because it's not about any law that's crucial to the state. And if we vote tomorrow, it'll only be eight days after the publication in the People's Newspaper will come into force. So we really don't see what this haste is, what a desire to go for it quickly goes for this procedure. So I propose a gentlemen's solution socially sensitive to both employees and to ourselves that we just go home and just move on tomorrow. Because if this debate lasts, and there are indications that it could take up to four, five, six in the morning, then my people who will come to the vote tomorrow how you will endure. Because I can leave out the vote I don't have to hold the quorum for you, but what will happen to your people who hold the quorum that is worthy of you here will come to them with fatigue material. God forbid one of them gets sick. Well, this isn't normal for us to do this. And he told his colleague Maras that 16 hours' working hours is the top, so we're gonna be here for 16 hours for what? What good does the Parliament, the state, the people, the voters, Plenkovic, HDZ, I don't know I don't get it? And I think if we don't stop this midnight debate policy or after midnight people will shoot easily, here I see that people are tired of taking this nowhere dear. And I suggest we postpone this session once more for my health and for all of you who are present and what they do in the congregation services. I'm told by man one, here's what Ivan told me what if a woman cheats on me, and I can't go home. I'm telling my friend what's in there, what's in there is nothing, you got to be there. And he says I'm going to go now, that's it. They're all hostages, actually we're all hostages here in the Parliament who are currently one man, one man. What man? So the man who's chairing the sessions. He can tell the girls now and the boys let's all go. No, but he says we're staying until the firefight, we go to the end, and I remember when they spoke from HDZ that the party couldn't be that of one man. Well, the whole Parliament can't be the hostage of what one man would like to lead the debate right now. And I don't know what this debate is all about at this time. It's not clear to anyone. Here, ask these people. Ask Mrs. Taritash what this is about. Mr. Hrelja, Mr. Bauk, why this debate at this time? There's no reason. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bacic, you're an expert, you run the club, you can only stop this. But I see that there is no will, no political will to stop this debate, which means it continues. If it doesn't stop, it continues. Mr. Shuker until when? Until morning, by morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66363	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66365	Thank you, well-respected chairman, on behalf of the representative of the Independent Lists Club, for asking for a break on the topic of banana prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66366	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66367	Dear Vice President on behalf of the Glas and HSU Club, I am asking for a break so that we can discuss the problem of waste in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66368	Thank you. Here you go, pal Pernar. ... Please, let's let our colleagues tell us. [[The Intruder doesn't understand]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66369	I'd talk about these winters that are strong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66370	The winters that are strong? Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66371	... I demand a break to discuss the inability to work in the Croatian Parliament. [[the speaker is not turned on]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66372	Okay. If you think we need a break, then we'll take a break in three and five minutes. ... Comrade Bull, I'm still gonna talk, not you, from this place. [[STAMMERING, I DON'T UNDERSTAND]] We're meeting in 2.53 hours. [[STAMMERING, SHOUTING]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER A MEETING AT 3.03 HOURS]] First, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Panenic. Here you go. About bananas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66374	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, esteemed MPs! Probably every one of us in the family enjoyed exactly the bananas we've loved since we were little, but the idyll we've enjoyed so far has passed. If you've noticed the bananas have gathered. The price has increased by 46% that you must admit for sure that the data that we would not want for any items in particular that we often consume to happen to collect for that amount is now moving somewhere between 12 and 14 kuna per kilogram. What are the reasons? They say political instability in Croatia is the reason. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66375	Now, fellow colleagues, look at each other now and let the people watch us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66376	Here, if I may continue, I apologize. They say that the reason for the political instability in Croatia caused by the replacement of an extraordinary commissioner in Agrokor is also one of the reasons that is said to have affected the weather problems that hit the region of Dalmatia, causing delays in the field and problems with port logistics. And why is this really important? It is important because Croatia, according to export indicators, exports bananas worth about $3 and a half million. So that's one of the items that makes up a significant component in our exports and exactly the uncertainty that I've cited about climate change of price shock that has shaken us, is actually making us understand the true value of bananas in our "banana republic". It is the name "banana Republic" and it is related not to bananas but to a politically unstable state, whose government holds a corrupt group in which corruption, crime, mafia, nepotism, state-based enriching, all of this standard description. It also marks the reverse and incompetence of our country's economy in relation to our neighbours because we stagnate and lag behind, and it is an indicator of our National Statistics Office, all indicators of production, agricultural production as such are falling. Many likely associate the term "banana republic" with Costa Rica, which was a concept but it is not, however, there, after researching the happiness coefficient is twice as high as in our republic. So basically this problem that has been related to price growth is actually going to mark our entire economy and let's not let what happened to bananas turn us really into a "banana republic" but rather make sure that our economy deserves better management and a better availability of all good ones, as well as such an export, significant export product, and also an article that consumes our families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66377	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of GLASS and HSU, a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66378	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We in this assembly that we're sitting here are different, we're also using a break to talk about certain topics. I am one of those who tries really not to abuse this pay phone, but there is a theme in the City of Zagreb, and I rarely talk about the City of Zagreb because I am a representative in the City Assembly, so I think the problem in the City of Zagreb is that I should talk there and talk there. However, when you try to respond to a mess, then the time has come for me to talk from this pay phone about the problem of waste in the City of Zagreb. The problem of waste even in Croatia, Europe and the world is the problem we will be dealing with safely this century and different countries and different cities solve it in a different way. The whole of Croatia can solve the problem in an adequate way of waste in Croatia, but if the City of Zagreb does not solve what is realistic and the City of Zagreb and the Republic of Croatia have foamed and it is no longer something that is dangerous but it is indeed something that will be unfortunately in one time and reality. And now what's going on? The Regulation on the need to define how waste is to be disposed of, i.e. primary selection and selection of households, this Regulation is in force. Since the City of Zagreb did not adequately do so when it was necessary we managed at the last session of the City Assembly not to make one decision, but does not mean that we will not go to the next. The mayor of Zagreb has a good custom, which is if he fails at one session of the Assembly to another. And what's this about? It is about the introduction of cages into the city of Zagreb. So the cages are usually used for animals and are kept in cages in the zoos of lions, tigers or dangerous animals, and in the city of Zagreb it is suggested to hold waste bins or waste containers no matter what we call them. Why? So where it can be solved, where it's closed people will have their buckets locked for a simple reason because it has to be prevented that a neighbor in his can, or in his container throws his garbage bag. But in the city of Zagreb it is not possible to solve it in the most important part of where they are, where they are old houses and old households. And today, when you walk around town, you have the opportunity to see in Ilica or at the nearest center that cans are on the sidewalks. Now, the idea was that the more they're on the sidewalks, the more they're not like that, the more they're on the sidewalks, the more they're not like that, the more we have cages and they're cages in cages, so we're gonna unlock those cages so we can throw waste inside. And not only that, it's going to be a couple of kinds of cages like we have several kinds of columns, so these cages are going to be certain people who can work these cages, so these cages are going to be different dimensions, different shapes, different colors. But what's most to you they'll stand on the sidewalks which in other words says the next fact that there are sidewalks on which citizens will no longer be able to walk because they will be prevented by cages, not to say that the problem is how a fire vehicle will come, that the problem is how an ambulance will come, and God forbid and some hearse vehicle. But that story goes on. Imagine Zagreb has indeed become in terms of tourism, tourist mecca. It is very tempting on the map of the EU's main cities. There's as many tourists coming. I'm sure those cages that are in the Upper City or the cages that are on Ilica will cause quite an interest in tourists, so as here are the parliamentary representatives and we do selfie and paint here at two in the morning, then at three in the morning the tourists will paint cages and say they were in the city cage. Thanks to the very unusual relations of power in the City Assembly, we managed not to vote in the last City Assembly. However, our mayor's tenacity will go in that in the end we will probably achieve most of it, and the result will be that we love to pay everything twice in the city of Zagreb. Once we pay the tanks, twice cages, and imagine that it's decided as some other cities to pay only once so that there are containers, or containers or these waste cans, so they're chipped. In the city of Zagreb, such cans would be, they would only pay once. But since one plus one two and two is more than one of our mayors has decided on cans and waste plus cages.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66379	Thank you. The next stop was reported by the SDP club, a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go. Excuse her! Order, my bad. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA's esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66380	I'd like to say that this winter is causing literally winter into the bones of our citizens, and that the government is actually supporting the fear of people from winter and that it's a shame that the government doesn't cut the price of special electricity because we have strong rainfall, there's enough electricity in the hydrocentrals to produce yourself. The state should simply act on the price of energy and not act. As a result, many have cold homes, avoid winter, or are condemned to winter, even though they do not want winter. And this problem that winter will increasingly show its teeth will become more pronounced. And otherwise, since Croatia is an exporting country of bananas, this winter will actually have a devastating effect on the production of bananas in Croatia, which could actually be one of the reasons not only for the accumulation of bananas but also for the decline of GDP, i.e. the expected growth of GDP is smaller than it was, and it would have to be all to ask why and if this winter had anything to do with it. But I don't think that this question in the House is being asked, or until tonight it hasn't been asked, and it's important that this subject is being touched here. The more he is, they say that winter is the strongest before morning. Because it's always like that in the summertime, if you remember the cycle before dawn is the coldest, and that night when the sun goes down, it's still actually hot. And I think it's actually a good time to talk about those strong winters. And all the time it's news on TV. I don't know if you've seen the journals? People complain about winter, about snow. But what's another problem in winter, which is fatigue. People are tired, they want to go to sleep, but part of people thinks it's simple to work out what, up, they want to drain people like they say the limit. And that's what this government is doing to our citizens, exhausting to the limit, working to fatigue and actually suffering. And it seems that even we in the House are no longer spared, that this House of Highs is also condemned to day and night. The one from the merciless to the unloved, morning to tomorrow. And as the Montenegrins would say "tomorrow", "tomorrow" both in winter and in ice and in snow, there is no easy thing to surprise us. I think it's -50 to keep the session going. In whose interest is it we can only ask, and I wonder, is it possible that this is such an important topic of the agenda that we are now here at this time discussing it? I don't think so. And I don't think you should be. And why is some imposing as an important topic? Why do some insist on discussing this winter, this night? I don't know. That's a question for everyone. And how in the world will the MPs come to work tomorrow after that winter so tormented, tired of coming to work, how? Nobody knows that. Nobody knows. I don't know. And to tell you the truth, I am tired, but I will not let this fatigue overcome me, that this winter breaks my spirit and I give up. No more fighting until the end, we will defeat winter, fatigue and all the other troubles and natural and human beings that have been put before us. And I want to invite you all to continue to the end and not to stop in this debate because this is an important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66381	Thank you very much. The next SDP club on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66382	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. First I will welcome 237 faithful viewers on the Internet YuTube channel of the Croatian Parliament who are looking at us in their homes at the moment, people go to sleep. Unfortunately, it's the only thing I can tell you right now, given that HDZ is committing a kind of violence, we have to show that we're not going to give up here we'll be here by morning. It's a matter of principle now, a question if you want to so honor yourself more or less, but the question now is to show that in Croatia you can't do what you want, whether you have power, whether you have a majority, whether you have 78 or 86, you can't do what you want and what you want. And to me, this sleepless night is a symbol of me showing that I don't agree to this kind of work and that I will never agree to it as strangely as it may seem to anyone. And it may seem strange to some of our colleagues who are now sleeping at home. But it doesn't seem strange to me, and it doesn't seem to me in vain how much I'm going to succeed next time I don't think of a HDZ-like situation again in the same way. Well, I guess now he sees Branko Bacic that this is pointless. Of course, it would be nice if you showed pride and that ego wasn't so big and said – never mind we made a mistake, we can continue tomorrow. But apparently HDZ thinks he can't make any mistakes, that they're infallible. If they hadn't made a mistake, they might not have made a mistake with Ant Ramljak. It's just that it just happened to go away. And as long as there is no responsibility in Croatian politics that man can understand that he has made a mistake, and the mistake is to discuss it at 3 a.m., we must show that there will always be someone who will say that it is not allowed and that we do not agree to it. As funny as that may seem to someone and maybe tomorrow the media and the public will react in the way that once it happened again to the circus, the excess in the Parliament, etc. It is not our fault, it is our fault that those responsible are the ones who impose the rhythm, who impose the subject, who propose the Rules of Procedure, etc. You will not succeed next time again, whatever the subject is, we will be standing up again and I can only promise that next time there will be more, because this is the first time that happens in the Croatian Parliament. It is for the first time in the Croatian Parliament, and I promise you it will happen in the future. The HDZ and its Rules of Procedure will do so in the future. What I can say once again is that I am glad that we have shown and that we will endure this violence of HDZ, that there are representatives in the Croatian Parliament who are able to resist it, which will lead this debate to morning. Which at this moment since it is 3 and 25 in the morning, I can tell you that everyone who is now in the assembly attends the historic moment, this is the longest session of the Croatian Parliament since history and the first constitution of the Croatian Parliament. So, the Croatian Parliament has never sat for more than 3 and 25 and you all. Congratulations, Mr. Reiner, and you are a participant in the historic session, for the first time the Croatian Parliament has been sitting this long. And, of course, the greatest honor of all of us is President Brkić who runs the session and who will enter the anals as he who led the longest session of the Croatian Parliament. If we were in America by chance, we'd be making Wikipedia by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66383	I thank my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66384	And all MPs who participated in the longest assembly would already be listed So I congratulate you all and let's move on. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66385	Thank you very much, fellow Maras for the explanation of the break. A colleague, Miro Bulj, answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66393	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club for 10 minutes, and the topic is the government's relationship to the Dalmatian Zagora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66394	Thank you very much. You want a replica or what? ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66395	I'm looking for a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club to discuss waste management.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66396	The waste management. Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66397	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a half-hour break, and after that, we'll discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66398	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66399	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament on behalf of the GLASS and HSU Club, I am asking for a 10-minute break so that I can discuss a problem that will happen regarding the import of cars that will be banned in Germany, will be imported to Croatia and Croatia will be the place of waste of these cars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66400	Thank you very much. There's no one left. I'm setting a break. At 4.05 we continue with the work of the plenary session. It's 3:53 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 04:05 AM]] On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66402	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we see four hours and six minutes. I'm going to talk about one really serious subject. Unfortunately, I wish that the debate was at 9:30 we started a little bit of this break, because these amendments of the law until these amendments to the Rules of Procedure I often talked about Dalmatian Zagora, Lica, undeveloped areas here you will take away my right as an advocate to talk about it in those time periods that we had right and are truly devastating data, so many of my colleagues from my area of people said that my predecessors even from the Cetina region talked very little about the problems of the Chetin region, and even for one Assembly representative from my Chetin region said there was only one announcement. He said, he asked the chairman to close the window so he wouldn't kill him so he wouldn't catch a cold. I believe that in times where, from 2011 to 2016, in four years, the 2011 census and statistical indicators in 2016. 26 thousand 451 people are smaller, and these are mostly young people, young families in the area who have been forgotten about all issues, mainly on project issues, and these are mostly roads. So I can say here for vertical mergers on the highway from Ravca to Drvenik that would connect that area of the Vrgorjeva and Herzegovina parts of the hinterland is the property end without that road. The Cetina landscape is free of that compound on the freeway, bypassed the Drinish end, the Knin end. So the entire area from the Krka river to Neretva is forgotten and it is a beautiful area because we have three great rivers of Krka, Cetina and I said Neretva, and we have numerous fields such as Sinj, Vrgorjek, iootic, Drotic which are abandoned where GDP is catastrophic, where simply our political elites have come to Sinj only to say about the Days of Alks where they have been well promoted because it is a significant event and it is beautiful. We are a welcoming end, so it is in the vervain end for Dane Tin Ujevic and similar events or, say, in Drnis for the Days of the Drinjski prosciutto, and these ends are forgotten. And even the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, where it refers to the end of two years, is promised, cannot be passed. We will go personally in, we are already at the end where we will propose this law because I think those areas deserve a new law where we will increase fiscal capacity because huge areas are in this area without water supply, without basic infrastructure, infrastructure means not only these roads for which the current mayor Boban is saying he will camp because of these roads outside the government. I haven't seen the tent yet. Now it's time for tents in certain trading chains to be reduced. If it's necessary, I'll co-finance and camp together. But obviously we don't have the strength to do that. I believe that by amending this Rules of Procedure, we to whom the people in these areas have given a voice to the underdeveloped are challenged by the right as you do to colleagues who speak and other topics. Of course, we all have the right to talk about these topics. As the most active advocate, that's what I've even resented here the highly-positioned officials who've changed so far to a number of councils have been, I think this is one huge injustice. But stop us from saying you won't. Before this debate began before midnight, I said we'd be here by morning until new working hours, which is 9:30, and so it will be. And I'm sorry that HDZ didn't accept it and that it brought parliament into this position because it wants to make a circus out of it. You won't forbid us to speak, gentlemen, regardless of this piece of paper you're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66403	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bul, for the reason of the break. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Power esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66404	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I took this break to talk about waste management in the Republic of Croatia. As we know 10 years ago, a plan for regional waste management centres was adopted. Experts say that even then the plan was somewhere on the edges of modernity, that it had already been run over by time. And today, when we see that all of these centers, with the exception of Mariščina, are late or questionable whether it will ever be built, are in a situation where we have a lot of garbage, that we have Jakushevce in Zagreb, that we have Karepovci in Split, that we have Ilovac, Orlovac in Karlovac, that we have a Piškornica near Koprivnica known for this last affair and the situation is more or less similar throughout the Republic of Croatia. The consequence of bad waste management... What on the local, what on the state level. [[You don't understand.]] It is known that the Living Wall is a party that does not deal with much ideology, that is, our ideology is primarily to deal with how we will live better, so that, by dealing with and consulting with professions and ideas in a way that solves these problems, we have come to the sad fact that most of the technologies that the world is dealing with today or which are just emerging unfortunately are being produced outside, that they are being done by the private sector and that Croatia is mostly losing a step there. We have a Međimurje Technix, however, he deals only with recycling. But what about that waste that can't be put off, rescheduled, etc.? So one would say perhaps the strongest, state-of-the-art technology that is developing at this time which is on the take-off and will show its strength and potential in the coming years and Croatia must be positioned there, so I would like to say a few words about it, ultra-high temperature hydrolysis. So, technology is Swiss, so far two plants have been built one is on Lake Geneva in Switzerland, the other is in Munich. Technology has met the most German standards for environmental protection. So, it's a single facility, and it's all going to matter like this to one part of this room, which is able to depend on what capacity you take, from 5 to 25 tons of waste, the trash to process. They've been testing all kinds of waste, I think, some 160 kinds of work. There is no burning, there is no chimney, so there is one inert gas that can be used further in other industrial processes and remains of course an inert mass which can also be used in further processes, for example in construction, road construction. So, for just a few million euros today, such technologies are produced, they can permanently solve not only these built-up hills that accumulate but they can also solve all this municipal waste that comes from day to day. The plan is that 200 such facilities will be built annually in a few years. Already in Arab countries, there is a terrible interest in India and elsewhere that has similar problems with waste as we do. I am sad that Croatia is lagging behind not only in solving waste problems but is lagging behind in the development of such technologies. This is one side of the consequences and insufficient infrastructure. So, on the one hand, to develop something we don't have to sell it to because in Croatia, there's a major influence on the waste mafia that hasn't been in the interest for decades to solve these problems because then it would lose its influence. We see what's going on around Zagreb, Vice-Sidden, Bezovica it's all part of a similar story. Also, there is, of course, that we are not attractive enough for scientific research projects. We know that quality people are leaving, that it's very difficult to attract someone. Of course we don't have our own banks to fund such projects. As the story in agriculture, farmers complain that it is almost impossible to obtain credit, or that part of credit to withdraw another part from the European Funds, let alone something like this. Therefore, it is a systematic failure in the development of Croatia, and it is also depicted on waste management, i.e. the whole problem. Here I call on everyone to follow world trends and find, there are better solutions than this Croatian Parliament must know both Croatian cities and municipalities and for better solutions and let's deal with this problem more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66405	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic. On behalf of the SDP, a respected colleague, Arseb Bauk, requested a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66406	I thank Mr. Vice President and especially the HDZ colleagues for the unforgettable experience of the hearing at 4 and 17, and we're only halfway there. How now, because of these breaks, we must look for topics that we will talk about in order to stick to the Rules of Procedure and then apply for the current political situation, it is an ideal opportunity to mention some of the problems that may not be mentioned in certain situations. So I'm going to mention this problem that I've met a citizen with, and it's about the rights of parents of children with special needs with developmental difficulties who, according to the laws, have acquired the right to the status of carers in a way that the state finances them for 4 hours a day, and the other 4 hours have a job. The point is that these parents are in a subordinate and unjust position when they retire because for that amount of 4 hours they spend and the state pays them as their children because they are committed to doing so have a lower pension than those of the other ones, who do all 8 hours. I wish there was a political will to remove this injustice from those parents, and that this part for which they receive money from the state would also be recognised as a particular addition to their pension so that they would not be in a subordinate position to others. So for their sacrifice because of the situation, which occurred in life and for their children they are in some way, not in some way, but in a truly subordinate position. I hope that the parliamentary majority, as well as the opposition, will have an understanding and that certain legal changes will solve the problem of these parents. The second part I want to use in these remaining two minutes concerns the rights of another group. children and it is an absurd situation that children who are resident in Croatian islands are not free from paying the ferry ticket as a joke. students, for them the same amount is paid for adults as well. I even think they're paying something bigger. It is also something that would be good if this illogicality were corrected in our regulations and allowed those children to have the same rights as adults, which is that the price at which they are transported to have a certain discount as well as the discount of adults. There are many of these examples of the illogicalness that we have in our legal system, which are the result of the under-exploited consequences of the laws passed by this Assembly, and I am not sure that the new Rules of Procedure will, without of course, be better understood by the parliamentary majority. How we got into a situation to discuss it at four o'clock and here's 21 minutes, it's very simple to explain. Certain repairs of the Rules of Procedure that are justified have been added to them, and some things that are not justified which can be brought under the reduction of the rights of MPs and then when you have stubbornness on the one hand, you get stubbornness on the other side, so that in 4 hours and 21 minutes and 58 seconds someone in the Assembly is talking about it and it will probably be at 5 o'clock, at 6 o'clock, and how the fellow MOSTs announced, and the rest of us are in that event at 7 o'clock, so let's talk about it, we'll continue the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66407	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Stanku requested a respected colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, in front of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66408	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I am my colleague, here at 4 o'clock and 22 minutes we show what it means to be picturesque, we all know the scene of the wedding and the two rams, but now we have this situation because, of course, after we pointed out and warned in the Rules of Procedure that the suspension, or the restriction of the break, can be between 1 and 2 o'clock, we are now here from midnight, every hour we show what it means and we are taking this opportunity to talk about things that normally we should be honest about, and may not be topics for a break but, however, we are just the thing that leads to absurdity. You know, action, or it's always causing a reaction, and that's how you think it is. I am sure that the debate on the Rules of Procedure was in the morning hours so that rarely anyone would decide to interrupt that debate with pauses rather than discuss it on behalf of the club, they said what we have to say more than we know that the whole story will end and we know who has most votes and how it will be voted. I've been looking for this break on one subject of life. You know, no matter what we live in one country and somehow we think things don't happen, things happen in the real world and beyond our will. And I'm talking about that big cities or some smaller cities, in Slavonia, Ljubljana has made a decision that cars on fossil fuels can go to Ljubljana by 2020, it's a great media opportunity to see, that there are already a number of cities in Germany that have not only made that decision but also related to diesels and they won't be able to go to a big city, at the moment it's Munich, Stuttgart and Hamburg, even there was, of course, that the car industry in that sense and they have their own problem with the Constitutional Court so you don't think they don't have, the Constitutional Court ruled that such decisions are constitutional because the great manufacturers have found that it is unconstitutional. They claimed that constitutional and suddenly a larger amount of diesel cars would appear on the German market. That decision is that there is one fatal year, which is 2015, the cars that were made before 2015 have one other technology, the ones that are above 2015. And now in the hoax that each of us likes to have a pet of our own, and this tin pet likes to boast about it, there will certainly be lurking behind such cars on the Croatian market, it is good to discuss it, it is good to talk about it and it is very good to think about it in a way because of course our citizens will try to buy these cars, and cars will at some point be cheaper because they will no longer be able to drive in certain cities, they will be brought to Croatia and what will happen? Three things will happen. The first thing because, in terms of security, these cars are, of course, older cars are worse in terms of safety than the new car, and we already have more deaths in road traffic than in 2016 and 2017, that's the first topic. The second topic is in terms of environmental protection, which will be more CO2 in large cities, and the third topic is the topic that we have already discussed here several times, and that is to take care of such cars in terms of waste because environmental experts argue that the cars that are on diesel fuel and these cars that are no longer in certain German cities are not able to drive, when you make sure that you have a different way of taking care of them. What am I saying? In the end, we'll have the next situation. That we're going to help the German industry in an indirect way, so our citizens might even get a cheaper car and that's the first starting position. We'll get cars on the roads that are more insecure, or questionable security. We will get more CO2 production in cities and eventually when these cars go to the old iron we will have to take care of them and deal with them at the waste from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So in these late hours, here's already half a morning this is certainly a topic that won't wake you up, this is a topic that can be discussed at some other time. But it's always good to say, point out and make sure that certain measures really prevent cars like that from being on the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66409	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritash, for the reason of the break. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66411	I'd like to request a break on the subject of credit default, what, in the monetary system of our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66412	Dear colleague Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66413	And I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes to talk again about the situation of inability to negotiate a doctor in collective bargaining for their border collective contract, rather than negotiate for them unhealthy employees and nurses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66414	Thank you. Let me just tell you in advance that the break will be approved after the presentation. We've already had one exposure and a break, but let me know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66415	Let me join up. I am asking for a break to be seen as a slowdown in GDP growth in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66416	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. A colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66417	Thank you very much. So as not to be denied another break, on behalf of the GLAS and HUS Club, I'm looking for a break to discuss the current political situation, so whatever that means.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66418	Thank you. That's all it takes for a break. So, you'll be approved after exposure. I'm setting a break to 5 o'clock and 10 minutes. It's 5:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66419	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 05.10 HOURS]] The first is the Living Wall Club in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66420	The reason for taking this break is that loans cannot be returned, and they can't return when we say we don't think about each individual but the total amount of credit, means the total sum. This translated means that the state cannot return them, that cities and municipalities and counties cannot return them, that railways cannot return them, shipyard, highways, Agrokor, Petrochemy Kutina, etc., etc. means a number of other entities. The current monetary system is based on credit, so no credit, no credit, no money in circulation. If no one had taken out the money loans, there wouldn't have been. So taking credit is the only way to make money, and the distribution of it, or let's say by working, the money is just distributed, so the work doesn't create money. You can create thousands of chairs in the factory, you won't create any kuna. You can only get money through the distribution of money in some way from these loans and in this way you have a vision of money being created by work, not money being created by taking credit, and you have somehow come from that exchange of goods. Someone's going to say well why the loan is invaluable, so it's that the thesis established by Larry Hannigan she's connected to that, you watch out for the thought, while the money for interest payments doesn't exist so he wasn't created together with the principal loan, and so let's just say the total amount of money that was created is ten, and that's another interest unit, so the total has to be returned to 11, there's only ten that's impossible. And then we have the appearance of so-called. Infinite borrowing when states are taking infinite loans, when debt states are beating up by taking a new debt and this system is not sustainable in the long run. We already see this in Croatia, but there are entrepreneurs like Todorovic who believed that this system is sustainable, that it is possible to repay the debt by taking on a new debt, or endless borrowing. Where the infinite borrowing will take our country, I can only assume, but by the estimates we see, or which we can predict, we see that this is going nowhere. He recently said Marin Stramota when he resigned to let us lose a day if I understood well 150, 200, 300 people which is a disaster for our country. And we lose people every day that due to negative growth, which is because of the eviction and actually this model, this system, this policy doesn't lead us anywhere. Unfortunately, this and such policy has the support of the parliamentary majority, which means 76 or more hands, and thanks to that, we are implementing that policy and we are failing all together. The only question is who will destroy the first and goal of this system, the totalitarian system is to silence the truth, hide the truth, and ultimately make a variety of tricks in order to prevent the truth from coming out. It seems either through media control, public or state television, and in the end, here we are now playing the case here and because of changes to the parliamentary rules of procedure. But these are just some of the methods, there are more, there are threats, threats, blackmails, etc., etc. All these methods have been tried on us, we've been through them all, and we've defeated them, and we're going to beat this last one by saying the stairs or the obstacle better said that was put before us. I'm happy to be part of the Living Wall, and I'm happy to have a colleague named Sincic as party president because he's a good and smart man and he's honest and he never cheated on me. And it's very hard for you to find people in your life who won't cheat on you even though they can, so it's clean, so he didn't cheat on me because he couldn't, but because he's good, there he is. And look at the other parties, they're taking their heads off there as soon as they get a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66421	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists speak a respected representative of Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66422	... here pointed to an extremely difficult situation regarding the situation of doctors in Croatia who have been brought back into an unequal position and are negotiating collectively for a border collective contract without the presence of a doctor. [[Speech is not enabled.]] So for the survival of the health system in the Republic of Croatia, the existence of a doctor within the health system is also necessary, they are operators of the activity, and I will repeat once again that 1520 doctors have collected all the necessary documentation to leave, and 580 of them have already gone. It means as if it's gone one whole KBC River or the whole KBC Osijek. 15% of the specialist Corps, which is 4000 doctors in the coming years, the specialist will retire and the question is whether we will keep it, is the existence of a system like this today. When we talk about their work, they are so missing, that last year, 3.5 million overtime hours were done in hospitals, and even some of them were forced to do what they were forced to do, because there was no one to do the job and the superiors had to put them to work, they had to report from the labour inspectors, and eventually they were punished for working overtime. One total, one as they have, so they have to do 180 hours overtime, each year they have a right. If they work over it and work very hard, the situation becomes catastrophic because they end up, as I say and punish themselves because they work overtime. If they didn't, the system would have fallen because it was done, like I said, 3.5 million overtime hours last year. Their rights were negotiated four years ago by nurses and unhealthy staff, so maids, technical staff. 74 thousand employees in Croatian health care. According to the current Law on Representativeness, which was passed 3 years ago, which disastrously solved that story about the doctor because it requires a minimum of 20% that they are members, that the union must have a minimum of 20% of the total number of health employees. That means the doctor should be 15 grand. In this situation, all doctors who work are 8,000. So we'll never reach 20% and we'll never be representative. So doctors will never be able to negotiate their working conditions. on your rights, on how to account for overtime, etc. For example, for the moment, a huge lawsuit, a huge number of pending lawsuits, one part has already arrived, which Minister Kujundzic has tried to lobby to make something happen and make as a total as interference, by trying to get involved, means, executive authorities in those who implement the laws, so the overtime of doctors is that they are paid in a way that they are paid naked. And that means that a doctor who's a professor, who's head of department, institution or clinic, does his 8 hours and receives every hour salary that's been increased by all these supplements and 9 hours if he stays as a specialist professor at that clinic or operate at the table, that watch has already been paid as an ordinary doctor, as if he's just started working. After it was realized that this was done completely wrong, the lawsuits began and the first lawsuits were already on the move. Here, yesterday Professor Kopic, deputy director in Osijek, told us that they had already paid 900 thousand kuna for 19 doctors. And the question is, actually, when do the others do the same? So someone negotiated, and that's how he negotiated. The law on representativeness has dealt with it completely wrong. What doctors are actually looking for, it's a professional collective contract. 18 countries in the EU have dealt with this by a professional collective medical contract that defines all their rights. Since 1994, Slovenia has had a professional collective contract and nothing really happened, the world has not fallen, doctors have negotiated and it is known in which position they are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66423	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Gordan Maras, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66424	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, in this early morning on March 2, 2018, we decided to discuss the problem that happened in the Republic of Croatia, which is a slowdown in the rate of GDP growth, which, unfortunately, slows down according to certain trends. We have had the weakest growth since 2015 in the last quarter of 2017, and this trend has been very worrying, so, instead of having a rate of growth that has accelerated as other EU countries, here are some countries that would not want to compare like Bulgaria and Romania with 6% growth rates. Unfortunately, Croatia has slowed down, and in 2017 it looks like it will be at a growth rate of 2.8%. What is the impact, i.e. what is the problem and what is the reason why growth slows down, of course one of the main reasons is the lack of investment in the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand, the impact of the crisis in Agrokor and all those who have said that the government is successfully dealing with the crisis in Agrokor along with these affairs, the departure of Ramljak and all that remains, we see that this has hit us a lot, and unfortunately, it will have a reflection on both the overall GDP growth and not just in 2017 but also 2018. What is also a problem and what we must consider is unfortunately, demand for loans or consumption in the Republic of Croatia because it was last year 2017. Croatia has left nearly 100,000 of our citizens, this is also reflected as consumption on GDP growth and on this side, unfortunately the Republic of Croatia will have a negative impact in the coming years. And all of this together shows a relatively worrying failure of the HDZ government, namely the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, in what we expected to go exactly the opposite, that the engine of economic growth in the coming years will speed up Croatia's forward and that all those years we unfortunately have had a crisis that started since 2007, i.e. at the end of 2008 and beyond and from which we came out in 2014, we will be able to catch up quickly. Unfortunately, these expectations have been too optimistic, i.e. we expected HDZ unfortunately in that part too much. And on this side I must understand that the focus of the work of the Croatian Government not only of these crisis moments and around Agrokor, but also of some other things that bother us must be on reforms and on the greater competitiveness of the Croatian economy and on the greater I would say investing and encouraging the economy that should be done in the coming years. So unfortunately, we are more concerned with some part of the state budget with certain groups that the current government is trying to buy with budget expenditure than with investing from the state budget in the economy, i.e. by encouraging the economy. This is all that goes on in the shadow of Agrokora, IKNA and others I would say things and affairs that are happening in Croatia unfortunately throws the economy into another plan. And at the end of the term, we will see in essence how compatible the Government of Andrej Plenkovic was with other EU countries, or how much she had failed to do during the four-year period, and which unfortunately we will miss out on many things that should have been done. At the same time unfortunately Croatian people, Croatian citizens leave and do not slowing pace rather than further speeding away from the Republic of Croatia and [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Over 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia only in 2017. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much fellow Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66425	Please, you've exceeded a significant amount of time. Intruder Maras: It continues in 2018./... [[Yeah, I'm sorry. In 2017 it went away and unfortunately that trend... I ask you to stop talking. .../]] I'm warning you, colleague Maras. The next club of MPs is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which they will speak the respected representative Mrak-Taritash. [[/Attack Maras: And unfortunately it will be in the coming years. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66426	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the early morning watch. It's half past six. I'm sure at this point our prime minister sleeps peacefully under a warm pillow if possibly the children haven't woken up anything. But I guess that's what it was about, which we in principle don't mind spending a quiet night together if he didn't sleep through the day. That wouldn't be a problem, then, but our prime minister has one custom of covering himself with soap on his head tightly closes his eyes, because if he closes his eyes tight enough, then things happen past him, and some things will sort themselves out. So the prime minister woke up there on Christmas Eve 2016 and it was important to tell the nation that we're going to start solving INA. So here is Christmas Eve and Christmas 2017, so almost Christmas 2018 and with INA nothing happened, and apparently it believes in how he closes his eyes, that we have closed our eyes. Then after that, a story happened that was with the Committee on Historical Truth, so after a year just as much white smoke came out and said we have a constitutional category, but we can pass the Constitution in some cases a little different. Then, when it comes to the Istanbul Convention, he said by the end of 2017 it will be in parliament, but here we are already heading towards Easter. There is no "i" since the Istanbul Convention in Parliament. Do you know which country has ratified first? Turkey. No wonder it's Istanbul. It's a joke on the side. Among the first countries were highly Catholic countries like Poland. Let's say Bulgaria discussed it, so now if we want to be like a series of other things together with Bulgaria, there's no problem with that. The same as the recent story about Agrokor and Mr. Ramljak, Mr. Ramljak went to the Prime Minister, said I was a little wrong, you know, I played a little bit. He says good, good, come on, I'll think about it. Then he thinks, he thinks, then Mr. Ramljak comes and says, "Come on, now you keep thinking, and I won't play with you anymore, so I'm gone." What about Mr. Ramljak, who is not a member of the HDZ, may not be a big problem, but there was a mayor who the woman said, look, we have a little family problems. The mayor's obviously taking off his arm when he gets home, he's in a bad mood for some kind of meeting. Or when the opposition's harassing him, say, by the early hours of the morning and the mayor comes home and settles it with his wife. And then the mayor says you have to resign as mayor and you have until you have to leave HDZ. Then the mayor says I won't play with you anymore, I'll still be mayor because I like it very much. The woman says she's changed her mind, and now he's calmed down, and then he leaves HDZ. If you're under a lot of heat this time and you're grumbling hard enough then things happen to you all by themselves. But there's one other thing happening to you, that you're not the one who dictates the rules of the game, that you're not the ones who can go one step ahead, you're the one who's doing the damage. And our prime minister is actually doing damage all the time for the simple reason why it's very difficult to make decisions. And then when there's an opposition that says a number of things, he says, and we have this prime minister who makes hard decisions, then he says, "I'm working in a rhythm where I'm used to working, which, compared to his family, would not be a problem in his way of life." We have a little problem that he's our Prime Minister, so his rhythm depends on the rhythm of the entire government. So in the government, we have, say, ministers that I already call a traveling scandal, I already have, I'm pretty careful when there are some ministers who go somewhere and have to say something, you never know what's going to happen. And that's the country we live in. It's a country where the rulers say we can do whatever we want. So we can discuss the Rules of Procedure whenever we want. And then they have a stubborn opposition that says: but we are opposition, and we can also be even more stubborn than you, and if you've already forced us to discuss the Rules of Procedure that is important to us for our work in the late evening hours, then we'll discuss it, and so will one of the ruling ones, so the HDZ colleagues who have made little eye contact will have to come and be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66427	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66428	The word was requested by a esteemed colleague, Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66429	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club on the rights of teachers and professors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66430	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66431	I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club on the heroes of parliamentaryism in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66432	Thank you. Dear colleague Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66433	I am looking for a break on the theme of the Gospel according to Matthew chapter 4 and beyond starting with Jesus ’ trial in the wilderness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66434	Thank you. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66435	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the problem of building Lng Terminal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66436	Thank you. The stations will be approved after exposure or we have more replicas. I'm setting a break until 6:00. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66438	Since colleague Maras asked for a break almost an hour ago. Meanwhile, the situation has changed, so I would not talk about the heroes of parliamentaryism but about the current political situation. Please appreciate that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66439	Thank you very much. So you're on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. I'm setting a break to 6 o'clock and 50 minutes. It's 6:35 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 6:50 A.M.]] On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague, Nikola Grmoy, requested a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66441	Thank you, Vice President, I would like to talk about the current situation in school, related to yesterday's teacher and teacher protest, which are dissatisfied with the collective agreement, and cannot wait to meet with the minister, let alone with the government. So we witnessed yesterday the fact that in this polar, almost cold we had a protest, means a teacher, we had even the fact that the minister has been reproved and that all of these stories about some kind of reform of education that happens that the real reforms of education do not have to improve the status of teachers, teachers and teachers, who are the pillar of any reform. As long as we have the fact that teachers don't, they just have bad wages but they also have poor material conditions in general, but they don't have the basic means to work. I know very well that many of my colleagues are self-copying tests, exercises for students and without these basic means of work, of course there is no reform of education. Remember that not long ago it was easy to make a decision in a comfortable and warm cabinet to buy expensive cell phones and luxury cars and so I ask why no reform is a form of increasing the physical rights of teachers and teachers. Why all reforms are broken over their backs, when it comes to demographics and education, there is always a question of where money is and how to raise the necessary funds, and money is spent on things that are absolutely unnecessary and leaks, of course, everywhere. Teachers and teachers seek not only their material rights but also the well-deserved place in our society, because they should not be as I said only pillars of educational reform, but should be pillars of our society as they used to be, not eternally thrown out by double standards and by increasing various inspections and bureaucrats. The administration to which teachers and teachers are exposed, everything they have to write from preparation, various reports, every day is growing more and more their material rights and wages are not growing but are being reduced and we cannot talk about any educational reform at all until it is changed, and nobody is saying anything about it, let alone whether the Government and the minister are doing something about it, therefore it is not surprising, that the Minister Divjak has been so severely repudiated. As a former colleague, I mean, of course, and since I intend to return to school of course, I express my full support to teachers and teachers and I tell them not to give up their demands because they are just and realistic. Let the minister and the ministry's chief of staff wonder if 8 minutes is enough for negotiations on such important issues. Minister Divjak, so we could all notice that unlike Minister Štromar, has always been present at the presentation of her laws here in the Parliament and we used to commend it all here, but this move has shown that she is not so concerned with the negotiations. So, respected ministers and all ministers, it's time for people to become important to you and to start caring for their rights, in the first place, for the rights of teachers, teachers and teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66442	I thank my esteemed colleague never shrubs for this explanation. On behalf of his fellow SDP colleague, he requested a break from a respected colleague, Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, we welcomed the morning in the Croatian Parliament, it seems that it did not happen to me even in the wartime, so it is obvious that the Rules of Procedure, or that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure for the parliamentary majority, are important at least as a kind of war plan. Paradoxically, the fact that one part of these amendments improves the Rules of Procedure and this other part of the amendments is unnecessary, as those as such would not be able to achieve intensities, as the promoters wanted to do with these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to say more about this when I'm up for debate on behalf of the MPs' club that I've registered neatly and I'm patiently waiting for my turn. I was planning on watching it yesterday at the Apartment Rental Act, about 10 o'clock, and here, I missed it in two hours, it's not 10:00, it's 8:00. As for the current political situation, therefore, in this debate in the five-minute name of the club, we will look back at something that we received yesterday from the Council to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democratic regimes because the government has formed a group of people to do a job that has already been done by another group of people. The second group of people is called the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and the group of people has, on several occasions, clearly and unequivocally determined what this first group of people called the Council for Facing the consequences of the non-democratic regimes tried to conclude. And then it happened that almost a third of the members of that council had an opinion separate from that council. On the other hand, there is a group of people called the Government of the Republic of Croatia who have a constitutional task of proposing to a third group of people called the Croatian Assembly of Laws who should prescribe what the informal group tried to do. It's really complicated. I do wonder, though, how I manage to keep my concentration after so many hours in the Croatian Parliament, but it doesn't matter. So, at this point, we are attending a complete absurde, a document that basically prescribes that the most important parliamentary body will work, we are discussing all night and we will probably discuss it all morning and part of the next afternoon unless we agree not to. And on the other hand, the work of the Constitutional Court, the Government and the Parliament are trying to make an informal group of people who have been formed to delay one problem. This only speaks of the absurdity of the political situation in Croatia, where those who are responsible for one of the biggest problems currently in Croatia and for solving it are the ones who are not responsible for burning a candle at the nearby Stone gate because those who have broken something, not those who would fix something, are responsible. In this sense, this theater of absurdity or as some have called the circus somewhat undeserved because this kind of debate is also happening in much more developed parliamentary democracies. So it's going to continue for a while, and we're probably going to have to explain what happened, and it's actually pretty absurd. So something that could have passed relatively along with even the consensus of the ruling and the opposition has turned into the otherwise parliamentary majority in a way that deprives the right of the opposition which this one does not actually use, and we will continue the debate during the morning on the draft Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66444	I would like to thank my colleague, Arsen Bauk, for this explanation of the break. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA, Stanko was requested by a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66445	Then the spirit took Jesus into the wilderness to be tried by the devil, and having fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, he was finally hungry. And when the plaguer came near him, he said, If thou art the son of God, he commandeth these stones to become bread. And he answered, saying, It is written, that man liveth not only of bread, but of every word that comes forth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil took him into the holy city, and set him at the top of the temple, and told him, "If you are a son of God, throw yourself down because it is written down." I will command my angels for your sake, and they will carry you on their hands so that you may not strike a stone with your foot. Jesus told him it was still written, do not tempt the Lord your God. Moreover, the devil took him to a very high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, and told him all these things, and I will give you all these things, if you fall down, and show me respect. To this Jesus said to him to go away Satan, for it is written down, the Lord of his God, and serve him alone. That's when the devil left him. And look, the angels came and served him. And when Jesus heard that John had been cast into prison he went to Galilee, and had left Nazareth, and had come and lived in Capernaum, which is on the seashore, on the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali, to be fulfilled what the prophet Isaiah had said, saying the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali to the sea on the other side of the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles. The people who sat in darkness saw a great light, and those who lived in the region and the shadow of the light of death came to light. Since then, Jesus began preaching and speaking repenting because the kingdom of the heavens is near. And as he passed by the sea of Galilee, Jesus saw two brothers of Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother, where he cast the net into the sea, because they were fishermen, and he told them. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men, and they immediately left their nets, and began to follow him, and from there he saw the other two brothers of Jacob Zebedee and his brother John, because he and Zebedee had clothed their nets with their father in the ship, and called them. And they immediately left their father's ship behind, and followed him. And he visited all of Galilee teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and he healed every sickness and every infirmity among men. And the voice of him spread over all Syria, and they brought him all the sick who were trapped with all kinds of sickness and torment, and possessed by the devils, and the sleepers, and taken away, and he healed them. And there followed him a great multitude of the people of Galilee, of Decapol, of Jerusalem, of Judah, from the region of the other side of the Jordan. When he saw the multitude, he went up to the mountain; and when he sat down, his disciples came to him, and he opened his mouth, and taught them by saying blessed and poor spirit; for their kingdom is heavenly, blessed, for they will be comforted, blessed with meek ones, because they will inherit the earth, the blessed, who hunger and thirst for righteousness, because they will be satisfied, blessed with mercy; for they will receive mercy, blessed and pure in heart, because they will see God, the blessed peacemakers, because they will be called to the children of God, blessed for righteousness, because their kingdom is heavenly, and you are blessed when they cursed and persecute you, and because they have spoken falsely against you all evil things, rejoiced with you, because your great reward is in heaven, because they have persecuted the prophets who were before you; you are the salt of the earth; but if the earth is not afraid of all your people, so that they will not be afraid of the worlds, so that they will not. Therefore, everyone who breaks one of my smallest commandments and teaches people, the smallest ones will be called in the kingdom of the heavens, but if each one executes them and teaches them, this great one will be called in the kingdom of heaven because I tell you that if your righteousness does not exceed the righteousness of the scribes and of the Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66446	I would like to thank my colleague Pernar for the explanation of the break. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66447	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am counting there, this is when I'm on my way, my fourth break on behalf of the club, so I can count them, but I'm still gonna have some trouble someday with the replicas, but what's there is, I'll manage. History is a teacher of life. So it would always be good to learn something from some things so let's say something that every time you want to make some kind of trouble, it always comes back to you. Equally, this one great stubbornness of the ruling that they decide when to discuss the Rules of Procedure is actually getting to their heads because here we have been discussing all night...... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66448	Dear Mr. Pernar, please don't interrupt your colleague Mrak-Taritash. [[Why is there no transmission?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66449	Now I won't know why there's no transmission, but I'm asking nicely, time, there's at least half a minute stolen from me. But when I was talking about the history of life teacher, then I actually wanted to say something about the LNG terminal. Let's think of an extremely important project and it's a Pelješki bridge. I think that at least 3 or 4 times was the cornerstone light for the Peljega Bridge, and from the Peljega Bridge there is no p. And I guess now that we have managed to secure the funds from the EU to the Peljega Bridge there will be. Similarly, those who remember for a long time and I am at that age when I remember much more what was 10 or 15 years ago, much less what was yesterday, today or yesterday also remember the story that was with the LNG terminal when an environmental impact assessment was made, when that environmental impact assessment was characterized by one group as bad, as bad from the aspect of the protection of the Adriatic Sea, when beyond that in the spatial plan was defined on the mainland LNG terminal, the LNG terminal was talked about, about LNG nothing happened. And now he's talking about the LNG terminal again but someone else. And it is said that Croatia will have a special law on LNG, even some say that the relationship between Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mrs Dalic will be good all ok with this law, the special law on LNG does not go through the parliamentary procedure because the fact is that our prime minister is in one situation that he has problems with Mrs Dalic, but there is also a problem and there is then one crazy situation, the problem is to work with her and the problem is to work without her, but to return to the topic that is LNG. And now we're talking again about LNG which is actually one ship and a special law would be, the idea is that this law should be abolished by all other laws and that it is strictly applicable to it. This is what we never had in our legislation, always every procedure in space had minimum standards, which is to be planned by a spatial plan, to carry out an environmental impact assessment, to resolve property-legislative relations. So we had cases of special laws, but that special law then spoke in relation to some procedures to be accelerated, to be special teams and everything else. So what from this pay phone and when it comes to LNG at sea should be said, we need to know what the point is, what the point is. What we want with LNG, what we want until he is, is that LNG at sea a temporary solution. You know, I remember very well one temporary solution that was when we decided to make from Karlovac to Rijeka not a full profile of the highway but a half-profile, so it was one invention where we had three tapes. And the three tapes conditionaled on the next one. These three strips proved very quickly not in terms of pulsivity but in terms of uncertainty of a large number of accidents so that they would go hungry with a full profile and we would pay double. Now I'm very afraid that when it comes to LNG terminals and forsaking that one ship that will be on m oru and not working if we want LNG on land, we'll pay double. Or there will be one more thing that is incomparably worse, that we remain in the sea. It's a very sensitive project. A sensitive project with an environmental aspect, so every country should always look at what is the goal, what is the point and what is most important, to look at in the long term. Long-term from the aspect of space protection, from the aspect of environmental protection and only the poor build twice. Poor people once build one variant, then it turns out it's not good, and then they build another one and pay twice. Rich people don't let that happen. I would like Croatia to look a little rich, not poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66450	I thank my esteemed colleague. Here, we made it up to you for half a minute. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66451	I'm sorry, mine was a misjudgement. There's still a tube transfer on you, it just keeps breaking up and I don't know why. And I think the HTV's been shut down a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66452	I thank my colleague, but it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj answered his word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66454	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. The topic is the current political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66455	Thank you, fellow Bull. You know very well that only after the next presentation can you get a break, so when the next exhibition is finished then we'll talk about the breaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66456	It's my friend Bull's place. A colleague of Pernar's? My fellow Dark-Taritas. Just the theme of my colleague Pernar... Pernar, Pernar's first. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please stand up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66457	On the subject of buying those F-16s from Israel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66458	You got it. Comrade Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66459	Please pause on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU and the topic is climate change. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66460	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66461	We're looking for a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66462	You got it. That's it. ... At 8.20 p.m., we'll proceed. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You were the first one, yeah. It's 8, 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER A MEETING IN 8.20 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66464	Thank you very much and good morning, Mr. President Jandrokovic. Here, after 24 hours and 25 minutes, yesterday I came here just eight hours ago, all night long, we've been fighting for freedom of speech that she wanted to impose on the majority of the minority. With one non-democratic attempt and the usurpation of demographic procedure, they will begin to discuss the Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament by midnight. This is not a fight for us, MPs, but for those who chose us to speak for them. In their name to speak, and I said too little, although I was the most active parliamentary representative, as long as you gentlemen have brought problems to this country, otherwise I wouldn't be a parliamentary representative, perhaps even the chairman of the local committee, if you were doing your job. Freedom of speech is the fundamental democratic right in the democratic Republic of Croatia. And you can't unify, tell us the MPs how we're going to behave. When I was a part of most personally, I voted, I didn't support the budget, it's my democratic right. And that's the right of you who are in the majority and us in the minority. And you can't ban us from taking breaks where I've been talking about labour rights, about my Dalmatian burn, like, undeveloped neighborhoods and on a number of other issues, as well as my fellow MPs, who have been here all night out of defiance and pride wanting to preserve the dignity of freedom of speech. Not only is freedom of speech and this is not a circus, because journalists were also deprived of freedom of speech, such as Tihomir Dujmovic at the public service HRT, Maja North, Milorad, a gentleman who also received this resignation or prior to his resignation, because he criticised HNS leader Vrdoljak. And he didn't think he liked the Bridge, but we stood behind him. At half past 12, I put up half the night, I put a patch on my mouth and I kept my mouth shut for a minute. The silence, the opposition, the Band-Aid, the Rules of Procedure. You don't have the right to make us just voter machines, because I don't have the right to, because I've been chosen by the voters, which pays me travel expenses, accommodations and wages. It would be best if you wanted to, and it's obviously your wish, because we're making you nervous about what we're making up for stories and themes, and it's our role and our mission that if you want to change the Rules of Procedure in this way, to send an email, we vote, or to insert 150 dolls here and if you want to be squeezed into remote red, white or red. You gentlemen can defend us all. You can, but you won't. There are methods and models of fighting in this society. But it's a shame that most people terrorise the minority by banning freedom of speech. By limiting the number of replicas. Well, if I'm coming from Sinj, I'm coming from three replicas. Will you, Mr. Reiner, as a motionary on behalf of the board, prescribe which replicas I will speak and to whom I will give the replicas. I know when this case happened, when he was here in front of the European Commission, after Mr Plenkovic and when he said he needed to change his rules of procedure. But he was elected by parliament, this is parliamentary democracy. This is parliamentary democracy. You have no right to, no one has the right to destroy and take away the right to freedom of speech. Mostly to MPs, or citizens, or journalists, but you do it. And because of that, you can bring this Rules of Procedure, but we will fight by strangling support for freedom of speech, and the Rules of Procedure will be worth as much as this paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66465	Thank you. Let's move on. It's up to the esteemed colleague Pernar, the Life Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66466	Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This session of the Parliament, we can call it a marathon, we can call it exhausting, we can call it, I don't even know how, but what's certain is that certain decisions that the government made weren't right, and that's why we have to protest. One of those decisions is the decision to make a remountive move in Ukraine, those moments were already for write-off, it was about copies, which would possibly be good for a technical museum in Sava. However, instead of ending up in a technical museum, huge money has been spent on their remont and they have been restored, such that they are not, are simply unusable and now Croatia is buying new museum copies, this time only 30 years old. It is only used Israeli planes, which are no longer needed by Israel. Now, if those planes were good, they'd write them off. I don't think I'd dare say an irrational enterprise of the state will single out 360 million kunas. Could that money have been spent better? I think so. And I think there are a lot more priorities where this could be directed, and one of them is certainly solving the status of protected tenants, which, if they accept these amendments to the law, actually become ordinary tenants and one leg all on the street. I am sorry that there is no consciousness and will in this House, which in this House are the eyes of most MPs, unfortunately, wide closed, instead of open. Also, with its support for this leading policy, the parliamentary majority is actually euthanizing Croatia, destroying Croatia and asking who will last turn off the light. And after all, wealth is in diversity. So is the goal only the HDZs survive, and we all disappear. Is the goal of surviving just one click and everyone else falling apart? So what kind of state is that, what kind of politics is that, and ultimately, what kind of people support such a policy? I am pleased that the opposition to this policy in the Croatian Parliament is slowly emerging, and this resistance is currently manifested in the form of civil disobedience, i.e. in today's debate, by the fact that the first time the history of the Croatian Parliament lasted literally throughout the night. I'm here on my feet, here I've been in the assembly since yesterday at around 9.30 p.m. and I'll remain for the reason that the fight against this government and for freedom of speech is my role here, or in other words, that I'm getting paid to sabotage the work of those who are ruining Croatia and who want to turn it into a country, as some commentator called, poor old people. It is a vision of the HDZ for Croatia and for this reason it is actually aware that HDZ has no vision for demographic recovery and is aware of the negative trends for these reasons Marin Strmota, the secretary of state, resigned. It's the suma sumarum of the whole story. And while Croatia is also dealing with this issue, it deals with everything but that. Why? Until when? God knows. And these measures that the state is carrying out to God, in order to promote birth, are folklore, as Mr. Stramota said, that's what we've already had opportunities to see in the past and what hasn't produced results back then, so obviously they're not going to now. I'm sorry that so few people see it and I wonder how much longer we're going to have to testify about this policy that is actually terrifying and that doesn't lead us anywhere, and especially not to a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66467	Dear colleague Anka-Murk Taritash on behalf of the GLAS Club in HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66468	Good morning President of the Croatian Parliament, good morning and colleagues who joined us. We're already counting for 24 hours that we're in this assembly. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, the apartment was on the subject of climate change. Climate change is a fact, not only in the Republic of Croatia, but also in Europe and the world. There is one statesman, Mr Trump, who quite often likes to say that, in fact, climate change that does not exist, and then, of course, nature defies it itself. It's the relationship between those powerful and those less powerful. Likewise, the parliamentary majority in this assembly decided to discuss amendments to the Rules of Procedure in the late hours thinking that it would go a long way under the radar, that we would all give up around midnight, 1-2 in the night, but as you can see, we haven't even given up, we haven't even finished the debate on behalf of the clubs, so that this debate can really go even in the third day, if someone really takes a big turn, but we'll see how it goes. But let's go back to the topic of climate change. Climate change is a fact. This century is where EU countries will be, where the Republic of Croatia will have to face three problems. One problem is climate change, another problem is waste disposal and the third problem is wastewater disposal. Climate change adapts relatively quickly. It adapts well to both the animal and the plant world, but you have to adapt a number of other things to that. There's a good story, it's always good to tell, somewhere about 20 years ago, I'd say, they were just starting to do environmental impact assessments and there was an environmental impact assessment in the Republic of Croatia, and then it was one of the largest energy facilities planned for the New Virje Hydropower plants, which was planned, there was an environmental impact assessment and it was to be built. The main problem in this environmental impact assessment was the Repash forest. The Repash forest that was created in Slavonia was created on, therefore, the oak forest that needed a lot of water. However, as the change came with groundwater, so the level of groundwater fell for years, the oak that had grown adapted to climate change, had an ever deeper and deeper root and the idea of the New Virus hydropower plant was that this Repash forest was actually submerged again and had a larger amount of water, i.e. as it had at the beginning when the Lužnjak oak forest was created. But then all the experts said that nature had adapted to new conditions and that if they had returned to the conditions on which the Repash forest had been created, it would have failed. What exactly does that tell us? This tells us that we must face the changes that are, that we should face each other and deal differently with agriculture but also treat other types of production that are for the simple reason that will be different. You have the opportunity and as I see that and lately even the four characteristic seasons... Croatia was that it somehow broke and turned into a 2-year period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should be adapted, adapted to energy, compared to design, compared to the use of new materials, even more so, the changes that have been made have contributed to this, but Croatia is there as a helmet in other things, helmets and so on. Sometimes when it was built especially in areas by the sea, it was those houses that were made of concrete blocks and were concrete plants. Today it's being built differently, it's being built with different materials, and some other countries have turned these concretes into a way where construction material on these concretes is actually recycled and used as a new value, and that's used as an incentive. So, in terms of changes that are, in terms of waste resolution, it's one of the projects that Croatia could be made about, it's one of the subsidies that should be and in this way we would actually respond to nature but also help the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66469	Thank you. Now it's the SDP representative's club, colleague Maras, I'm sorry what they did? Are you shooting yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66470	No, but it is social networks and at this point and people on social networks who are following my website can see what is said in the Croatian Parliament, I think it is nothing unusual but something that people are looking for, given that HRT is this session that is special in many things and is the first in Croatian history that lasts more than 24 hours uninterrupted, I think that people deserve to see and deserve to hear why we are here and why this session has taken place today and has not been held in the last 27 years. I also wanted to highlight and thank my colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, employees of the Croatian Parliament who spent all day and night with us here. So there are people in this Croatian Assembly, officials who worked yesterday morning at 8am, I saw them at 6:30 that are still here, almost 24 hours of these people have spent here with us and I want to thank them and to you Mr. President, I want to say that these people should be rewarded for what they do so hard and dedicatedly. And on the other hand, the question arises why we don't take care of those people who work here with us and almost day and night I would say they help this Croatian Parliament work in the best possible way. Why am I saying that now? There is a competition in the Croatian Assembly for Jobs in the Assistant Services in the Croatian Assembly at the moment, and how much pay do you think it is? How much pay do these people work for? 3,500 kuna. And now you see that these people work from morning till tomorrow for 3,500 kuna and at this point still these consultants in Agrokor, Texo Management earn 250 000 kuna a week. And tell me that's fair. Last night while we were sitting here, while we were discussing the Rules of Procedure, I thought about it, and I can't be surprised that Andrej Plenkovic still pays Texo Management 250,000 kuna a week or almost million kuna per month as about 300 colleagues and colleagues of our staff, the tenants who work in the Government in the Assembly. One company, 2 employees, Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ are worth 300 of our associates who spent the night with us yesterday from 8 a.m. with us here. I can't be surprised, Mr. President, that kind of approach, I can't be surprised that these people don't deserve more, that they're not supported and paid for by a decent and decent man for the work they do. If there's so much money on one side that the Commissioner in Agrokor pays 80, 75 000 kuna a month, Texo Management million kuna a month, so can't it be found that people who work with us here from morning till tomorrow have a decent salary? And I wanted to point out this here today and thank them again for what they did with us this night that wasn't easy and especially for them since they weren't used to it, that they had to stay all night and that they were really miserablely paid for their job. On the other hand, gentlemen of the HDZ, you can see that nothing can go wrong. We ask you not to silence the opposition, to accept two amendments to the key SDP, so that these breaks are not lifted and that the agenda, the agenda points, may be said, so you may never have the opposition, why not raise the standards, so tomorrow you will be the opposition, and you will propose. On that side let's take a step forward, and look at this side on the right, not one member or member of the HDZ Club is in the assembly, does not even have a proposaler again [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I beg you to respond by breaking the Rules of Procedure, there is no longer any suggestions here. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66471	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66472	Now they've asked for the word Mr. Maras and Mr. Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club, although I'm sorry about the students upstairs that we're going to interrupt the debate now to hear a little bit, but I'm asking for a break to consult at the club about the current political situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66474	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66475	Dear colleague, I'm looking for a break on academic lustration in Croatia regarding what I'm talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66476	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66477	On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I seek a break to speak about the inacted authority in protecting citizens in the protection of their incomes because this protection is constitutional and not by protecting these incomes, the Constitution is being violated and the Constitution violates power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66478	Any other interested? There isn't. Well, I haven't seen you, Mr. Grmoya, you're too close to me, so I haven't seen you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66479	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66480	What, I didn't realize? Uh-huh, actual. [[Grmoya Intruder: Current political situation.]] Thank you very much. Ten o'clock break. It's 9:50 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] Here you go. You've changed? Well, then, Mr. Miranda Mrsic instead of Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I asked for today's break to warn the circumstances that political staffing is ruining good and profitable companies that are unfortunately owned by the state. In a particular case, it's about the National Journal, a company that is a symbol of the state, a company that was obviously a company that the state took for itself, but apparently it ran it in a way that it shouldn't be. And while all public attention is directed towards Agrokor in front of workers' eyes, but not to the public, a healthy company is failing to make bad business decisions both for the company itself and for the workers. It is a company that was profitable, which is now in business problems because of the politics and politically elected people who led the National Journal to a company that could soon become a problem, a case not as big as Agrokor, but large given the symbol of what the National Journal means. From time to time, they leak into the public of certain affairs from the National Journals, so let's remember that affair with the uniforms of the Croatian Football Federation where the National Journal bought at one price, and then sold below that price which is above every healthy economic logic. And the last affair that will lead to the impact of the last nail on the People's Newspaper coffin is toilet paper. You won't believe the toilet paper will probably come heads to the People's Newspaper and the People's Newspaper can go bankrupt very quickly. Why did that happen? It was due to a poor business policy where it was obvious that it was not also counting on the economic viability of the project. And what's happening now is that the machines bought by the People's Newspaper at one price, well below that price, are sold to the private. But here's the devil, the private says we'll do profitable business, our private family company will export to our market, the market around Croatia or the European market, and we will succeed. Why didn't the People's Newspaper do it? The People's Newspaper case shows how harmful political staffing is for public companies, and this has been the European Commission and the EU's attention for many years because it is important that we manage state-owned enterprises more effectively in Croatia. However, we see that there are no shifts, and Minister Maric continues with a good old HDZ policy to politically frame, so he is politically involved in the People's Newspaper, not to mention that he is politically staffed both in Podrava and in other companies. I ask Minister Maric, is that how you take care of state-owned public enterprises? The People's Newspaper case reveals some other things that happen in these companies. Politically staffed administrations leave and come, make business decisions that bring businesses to ruin without anyone answering. I ask the State's Attorney's Office has found it appropriate to examine the conduct of previous administrations that have made harmful business decisions and concluded harmful business contracts. If DORH hasn't done it yet, why is it waiting? And most importantly, how is it that the burden of these bad business decisions always falls on the back of workers, so neither is the People's Newspaper excluded from it. Workers were asked last year to agree to a reduction in wages in order to compensate for losses caused by former administrations and thus put their bad business moves under the rug. And so the workers give up their rights, and politically staffed administrations pile up business failures. How long, gentlemen? I call on Minister Maric and the DORH to take concrete messages on this issue, not only on the People's News, but on other companies, and on the poor business of state-owned enterprises, to match those responsible, not workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66483	Thank you very much, Mr. Mrsic. The other is Mr. Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66484	Dear colleagues. Here we sit here all night, if we spent so much on key problems, politics is a priority, the skills of priority spent on the remonting of the legal system, total remonting that we spent so much on the law of origin of property, about academic lustration would be much better. Because about the academic lustration of this thing that I'm about to say you won't hear in the mainstream media that's why it's an important Rules of Procedure, it's just that there's only one thing that's heard is that journalists are under a heavy, hard hit by editorial censorship, self-censorship, afraid for their jobs. Well, when you touch someone in... real estate hunting, then you're the target, you have to keep your mouth shut. But journalists are networked to others, they have their sponsors in this House, and they're not telling the truth. Here's an example, yesterday I was saying that a Communist party was declared a criminal criminal organization in Bulgaria. I'll read it from that text from their decision by the Bulgarian Parliament to some point, and you just swap the Bulgarian KPH for this, and if there's a parallel, just listen. Here's how, first point, targeted and deliberate destruction of traditional European and civilization values, of course Christianity, deliberate violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms, mass murder persecution, etc. Third, strict punishment without the verdicts of parliamentary representatives from the national courts where people were being handed over just to take away their property, we talked about it yesterday. Nobody cares about that. The moral and economic breakdown of the state is crucial today, a moral and economic breakdown because this is where the heirs of the party sit. It was established centralised, managed by the economy on the basis of a directive that led to its collapse. Breaking and repealing the traditional principles of ownership rights, destroying the moral values of the people and reaching for its religious freedoms, implementing continued terror towards those who disagree with systemic management, according to target groups of the population, abuse of education, science, culture in political, ideological purposes also includes motivation, justification of those actions, destruction of nature without precedent. You have coves from Rijeka down to Omis, gray economy, etc. Is this how it happened with us now? In these redesigned communists overnight they replaced one of these failed doctrines for new birth ideology, which means I'd say they evolved from Mars to the buttocks, they came to the buttocks now here and that's where we are today, and that's actually, there's one, I'd call it Caiaphas syndrome. You have both left, right, Caiaphas syndrome. This is the priest, the high priest in Jerusalem, when Christ is crucified, they bow down to all authority. They have that possibility, is that Marshall or the chief. There's someone else, there's them. In that regard, academic lustration, what's said here is true, you'll be convicted in the media, I mean the media. You'll be blocked, or someone will introduce you as a clerofashist. A journalist recently, I don't know what her name was, was her name Yugoslavia or Memorial, I don't know anymore. He writes for Vecernji list and also has his own program where he washes brains with nebuloses on the Network TV that I introduced fascia into the Croatian Parliament. What kind of fascia? Is Fascism true? Is that the fascism of the phalanges, because I form the phalanges in Zagreb here. Is that corporate fascism? So I would, this is, from this podium here I would invite the Croatian people to get out of that mouse hole, to look for the truth. Here's a part of that truth we'll read about what it looks like in the practice of that system. My grandfather was deprived of his property because he was a Croatian patriot. One night they came to Grandpa's house, they arrested him, until today you don't know where he is, in a pit somewhere. And Grandma and her children were expelled and on foot came to Dalmatia. Only the mother I inherited from was left alive. My seized property, which is located in Zagreb from the 1990s to the day today, was returned to me by a court procedure, but the remaining protected tenants. The biggest tragedy that these tenants are too rich to know recently and have all the time. What have they got? Three houses, five cars, pastures, orchards. It's a continuation of that one-party system, everything else is just an act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66485	Like clockwork, you haven't spoken for a second. Thank you for that. Mr. Goran Aleksic, I also appeal to accuracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66486	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. What I want to talk about is the inaction of the Croatian government, the inaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the inaction of the Croatian Parliament. What's this about? Let us remember that the Constitutional Court has made a decision that prevents the full pay from being carried out, the full income is not stopped. Let us remember that at that time, I was raising a lot of trouble about it and after that trouble, the big creditors, the big banks, they decided silently not to make the full receipts, and the truth is that big banks don't do the full income to Croatian citizens, and they could because Article 173(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law of law is not retroactive. So we could do all the pay, the full income, the whole pension. But great believers don't do that. They are not working because of their rating, so the Association "Franak" recently urged Minister Bosnjakovic to go public and say that part of the Executive Law is retroactive, and Article 173(2) is retroactive. Because Article 21 of the Implementing Law has been resolved to limit the performance below the average income. And that restriction is retroactive. However, the average and above average receipts under the Implementing Law may be completed if the debtor has signed a declaration by 17 June 2008 allowing the believer to do so. I repeat, great believers don't do it after all the trouble we've been making. It's on the agenda right now, but it's not at the debate on the amendment and addition of the Executive Act. It was proposed by the SDP and by the proposal if accepted, it would no longer be possible to consider the whole-received situation at all. Unfortunately, it's still not on the agenda. The association "Franak" called on the president of the Croatian Parliament to urgently put the procedure on the agenda to discuss the proposal. However, the president of the Croatian Parliament does not do so. On the other hand, it is going to an emergency procedure to amend the Rules of Procedure. And what remains of me and what remains of my associates rather than visiting the believers and asking them not to do what the law allows them to do, so that me and my associates from the Franak Association are not from the party, but from the association we were just yesterday at Slatinska Banka and we asked the Slatinska Banka not to act on what the Executive Law allows them to do, not to complete the full incomes of people who signed before 17 June 2008 a declaration that it should be done. There's a certain number of people in that bank who signed those statements, it's not a large number. I won't tell you how many there are. They told us how many there were, but I won't tell you how many there are. It's not a big number. And the Slatine Bank has made a promise to us that they will not act on what they can do. Therefore, Slatinska Banka, as a small believer, will not complete the full income of the people who signed before 17 June 2008, statements that this should be done. So I call again from this assembly of Minister Bošnjakovic to issue a statement saying it is clear and unequivocal from the article. Article 173(2) of the Implementing Law that under average income must not be fully implemented despite the signing of a declaration before 17 June 2008, because it is an article. 173 st.2. The executive law is retroactive. But what by asking, through that statement, all the other less believers because the great credentials, as I said, do not do so, that neither those who have average and above average income also do so in full amounts if they have signed a statement before 17 June 2008. I also call on the President of the Croatian Parliament to put urgently in the procedure to discuss the SDP proposal to put the problem at last ad act. I know that jobs are under way to draft a new executive law, but in the meantime, it is necessary to prevent people who are not there and just because there are not many, they must be prevented from having their full income done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66487	Thank you, too. Mr. Grmoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66488	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's for the public, and for those of you who weren't there tonight, it means what happened. So, some represent it as if there was a circus here in the House, and there was one resistance to opposition from the ruling that at midnight we were discussing amendments to the Rules of Procedure that were denied and the freedom of speech of the parliamentary deputies, and we were moving a break into a term that wasn't so much in the focus of the public itself, where we, as parliamentary representatives, are talking about the problems of our citizens. It happened, so they thought that most of the MPs would leave the assembly and that the debate in which they acquired the rights of parliamentary deputies and what our task was to talk about the problems of the people who chose us, so they tried to get all that under the radar. However, thanks to 7 MOST MPs, 2 SDP MPs, 2 Live Wall MPs, thanks to fellow Mrak-Taritash from GLAS, we managed to make it possible for all of you who were not with us last night to participate in the debate on the amendments of the Rules of Procedure. And what happened is that HDZ and their partners today will not vote on these changes and the public will follow much more what happens in the Croatian Parliament, what kind of changes the HDZ, HNS and minorities propose and what they want to achieve. Some say we've been dealing with ourselves. Not at all. At the break, we talked about many problems of Croatian citizens. I personally spoke at the stop about the problems of teachers and professors. Their rights and how the real reforms of education do not exist without improving the position of teachers and teachers who are a pillar of any educational reform. counterpart Ante Pranic spoke about public administration reform, colleague Ines Strenja-Linić spoke about the rights of doctors and health staff, colleague Bulj spoke about abandoned areas and demographic breakdown. We were talking about specific problems, and now she's trying to present it as if we were here tonight I don't know what we were discussing. And we have discussed, of course, this contrived Rules of Procedure who wants to take away the right of parliamentary deputies to talk about citizens' problems. We didn't fight for ourselves. If we were fighting for ourselves, then it should be a debate about some of our perks, privileges and wages. We fought to do what we do because we don't have other instruments. I remind you that any law of the opposition and the motion does not come to debate. I remind you that when we give the interpretation that she never has to come to the debate. The only thing left to do is call it off. It's the only thing that needs to come to an argument within a month. And that's why we use that instrument. Not because we are destroyers, but because we want to warn about all the bad things that happen in Croatian society. We set out last year only in last year 21 legislative initiatives. Now eight laws are waiting to be put to debate and vote, and we have a few more in public debate. The bill of elections where we propose three preferential votes a year and something is waiting for us to even discuss it here in this high house. And they represent the opposition, they represent MOST as those that are not constructive, and we offer solutions, but we have no chance at all to discuss these solutions, let alone vote. And that's what we wanted to warn you about. I thank all the MPs and I think that you colleagues should thank all those who were here last night and fought, not for our rights, but for the rights of our citizens to hear their problems here in the Croatian Parliament. That's why we fought here tonight. That's why we fought, we're tired, but we'll stay here in the Croatian Parliament, even though I'm in the Croatian Parliament, so I came yesterday at 8:15, now it's 10:21. And we will participate in this debate to warn of the intentions of the ruling and to continue to fight for those who chose us. And that's our job, that's our job, and that seems to be what they're trying to take away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66489	Thank you very much. Now we have a request for a break. We're going in the order I saw and I'm not perfect. Mr. Panenic was first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66491	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, on behalf of the representative of the club of the Independent Lists, I am looking for a break on the subject of a difficult economic situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66492	Economical, that's important, yes. Here you go, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66493	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club is asking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes to discuss the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66494	Also important, thank you very much. So we have, Mr. Bunyan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66496	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall Club to talk about the 100th anniversary of World War I.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66497	Nice, nice to have ended that war at least. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66498	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss agricultural problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66499	It's just as important. Ten minutes, 11 o'clock. It's 10.50 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] Somebody call Mr. Panenic. ... No, no. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm not rigid, no, no. Or someone else at the Most. I'm sorry, but you can yell all you want, I'll wait for someone from the Most, I'll wait because I'm toleranced. ... I won't replace it. I'll wait for someone from the Most. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, Mr. Panenic, if you see that level of tolerance. Here you go. Here, you must come here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66501	I thank and apologize. I should have signed some papers. The topic I wanted to mention once again in this apartment is actually the problem that arises now and which occurs in the economic activities of the Republic of Croatia where we have stagnation. Maybe tonight my exhibit that was about bananas was someone interesting, funny. And it was tragic for me, too, that it was funny because that same banana in that export that we made boasting about export growth makes it a more significant component. So our statistics show this banana where we're just passing by as something we're exporting. And that creates one again, let's say the wrong picture of us being in reality. Whether we will be importing, exporting over such items that we are actually importers from third countries, so we deliver to some other countries again. It's actually a tragedy and that's why it was about bananas to understand how and what we're showing and it's statisticalally true, but in reality it doesn't show an economic picture of Croatia. And one subject that actually encouraged me to take this break was Petrochemy. Whoever followed Petrokemia, one of our significant economic operators, showed annual financial results in agriculture. The new one is not so strong as the new president of Petrochemy Administration, Djuro Popiac, announced a year ago that he would do anything to get the company on firm feet. We also have the result of solid legs. In 2017, the loss of 146 million kuna was shown to be almost 60 million kuna more than it was 2016. In 2016 I was also a minister and with great problems with trying to stabilise the entire company we managed to achieve a much better result than the one that was shown now at 60 million kuna is an increased loss at the annual level. And let's see the reasons. They are called for an increase in gas prices, rising to extremely high gas transport costs. And as far as the price of gas is concerned, I'd agree there's been a rise. Ten percent increased the price of gas, but not only in Croatia, the company grew in Europe as Petrochemy. It gets on the free gas market, where all its competitors do. Therefore, it is not for each other's comparison within the industry. All industry had an increase in the price of gas. Therefore, this cannot be a key indicator of the loss, because if everyone's price rises then the price of fertilisers is also formed because they are directly related to the price of gas. Now let's talk about extremely high gas transport costs. With us in Croatia, gas is transported by PLINACRO, a state-owned company that has more prices than in the environment and we have to say that. So our prices for transport are significantly more than they are in the environment. But looking at the financial result, we compare the results of Petrokemia for 2017 with 2016. Why am I warning you of this moment? I warn why on 20 April 2017 HERA approved a reduction in gas transport costs by 20%. Therefore, the financial result showed in 2017 that the transport costs of gas were lower than planned. They were, in fact, savings from 13, slightly over 13 million kuna compared to the plan. And yet there was still a very high loss, and there was additional savings here. That would be cumulatively going to over 70 million kunas. This is an indicator, in fact, is an indicator of the work of the Petrochemy administration and the desire that Petrochemy, which is a company of the utmost importance not only for the fertiliser it delivers, but also for the security of the gas system. Because if we lost the gas consumption of Petrokemia, we'd have a collapse. Prices would rise significantly. Transport costs would increase significantly to 25% of gas consumption in Petrokemia. And with all this together, she stopped by herself. Here's just another one. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, Mr Panenic.]] Privatisation has stopped and needs to be dealt with. [[Intruder Radin: Until the gas picks up.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66502	Thank you. Thank you. And now Mr. Peja Grbin is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66503	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. On 8 November 2017, Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Zdravko Maric discussed some important macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia at the consultation of economists in Opatija. He spoke of important developments in the Croatian economy and announced two things that are particularly important and that will prove to be completely wrong. The finance minister announced that Croatia's GDP will grow at 3.2% in 2017 and announced a decrease in public debt. But what really happened? As we saw a few days ago, GDP growth in the Republic of Croatia in 2017 was not 3.2%, though. He was much lower – 2.8%. But the problem is not only that 0.4% difference, which means nothing like this, and in reality it is hundreds of millions of kuna, but it is about the growth of Croatia's GDP, and thus the Croatian economy and thus Croatian production in 4th quarter of 2017 was among the worst, if not the worst in Europe. The Croatian economy grew at 2% in the 4th quarter of 2017. Already in our neighbouring Slovenia, growth was 6%. Three times bigger than in the Republic of Croatia. What was the reaction, and what was the answer of the rulings to this? Nothing. They simply did not consider it necessary to comment on the fact that the Republic of Croatia, which now ranks roughly in terms of GDP per capita economy and other economic indicators in Romania's ranking, is sinking to the start of Europe. I have no intention of talking negatively about Romanians. They are a working people, they are struggling with problems far greater than they are in the Republic of Croatia, they are struggling with huge corruption, they are struggling with heritage from those years 1945-1990 which were incomparably more difficult than it was in the Republic of Croatia, but they still succeed, and not only have they caught up with us, but they have overtaken us. And yes, Romanians do not have tourism at the level at which Croatia and its positive effects on the domestic economy. So, unlike the forecasts Mr. Maric made in November 2017, the Croatian economy stagnates, slows down. And let me remind you, Mr Maric has already announced that in 2018 and 2019 we can expect even less GDP growth. So much for the ambitious government. But that's not all. I mentioned at the beginning that Mr. Maric also announced a reduction in public debt. Remember there at the end of the 3rd quarter that we all boasted that our public debt fell to about 81% of the state's GDP, that we had one of the major public debt cuts, etc. What's the reality? Just in November, the month Mr. Maric announced a decrease in public debt, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia increased by 10.5 billion kuna per year. And it reached its historic maximum of 300 billion and 200 million kuna. It increased by 3.7% compared to 2016, i.e. November 2016. So Minister Maric announced a decrease in public debt, and has increased public debt by 10 billion and 500 million kuna for a long time. Can anyone even imagine that money? So much for Mr. Marić's prognosis and so much for how he follows what he really should be doing, which is finance, and that is the sustainability of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. And to know how dangerous this increase is and how dangerous it is despite the forecasts of HGK, and we know who's headed it, in fact, dangerous for the Republic of Croatia, is visible from the fact that it's an increase of 3.7% at the time that GDP growth fell to just 2.8%. So our public debt is growing again faster than GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66504	Thank you very much, Mr. coat of arms. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66505	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this year the 100th anniversary of the end of the World War I, a war that has at least ended in principle because as far as we can see about it, there is no need to establish a council for the past, but a war that is very important for Croatia because after it Croatia has stepped out of Austria-Hungarian and entered a new country. Just in 1918, in October here in front of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian citizens gathered and welcomed the Parliament's decision to disunite with the state where we were almost 4 centuries old. What is not good about this 100-year-old, however, is that the public knows almost nothing about it, and at least knows about the number of victims the Croatian people suffered during the war. In fact, Croatian soldiers were mobilized to the Austro-Hungarian Army and fought for more than 4 years on many battlefields around the world, such as Russia, Ukraine, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Albania, Greece, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia, and even Belgium and Palestine. In these battles, tens of thousands of Croatian citizens died, and many interesting books were written about them, including those of the writers Miroslav Krleža. Interestingly, to this day, we have not been able to find out what the final number of victims is, so it was necessary to approach scientific research that would finally tell the public what number it is. The problem is that it was not easy to determine the territory of Croatia in which the number of victims should be processed, nor it was methodologically easy to determine how these victims should be collected, since hundreds of thousands of Croats ended up in captivity during World War I. For example. In Russia, Siberia, and some of them returned home only after 10, 20 or 30 years, and the question was whether those who died in captivity were just as war victims as those who died during the war. It has been shown that it is methodologically correct to gather people who died in captivity regardless of what happened after the war itself. Finally, it was found that the number of Croats killed in World War I was between 80 and 85,000. The number should be seen in light of the fact that in a time before a century ago Croatia did not have 4 million people like today but had significantly less. About these people, Croatian hysterography did not say enough, and at least it made sure that these people were properly mentioned. I would like to say that many Croatian graves exist around the world today, but they are not taken care of by Croatian authorities but by Ukrainian authorities, by Italian authorities, by Slovenian authorities, etc. who therefore keep the tombs of our grandfathers and grandfathers. I believe there are many people sitting in this House whose great-grandfathers died in World War I and would like to know where their grave is. Here my great-grandfather Peter died in July in 1915 fighting against the Russian army. Therefore, I call on the Croatian Parliament and all institutions responsible for this, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Croatian Museum of History, the Croatian National Archives to pay attention to this 100th anniversary and to create a central memorial ceremony with the rise of a worthy mention of all Croatians who were killed in World War I. Once again, it is the number of more than 80,000 people who were killed directly in military troops, and another few tens of thousands of people were killed by the consequences of the war, primarily by major epidemics such as typhoid epidemics that killed about 3 and a half million people in Eastern Europe, such as the outbreak of the Spanish flu that killed some 20 million people in the world, as well as in Croatia where hundreds of people died daily. Therefore, let us not allow these events to remain unremembered, that these events, these sacrifices are in vain but here they are right now on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the First World War, show due respect because that is how we put ourselves in line with those countries that we love to compare ourselves with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66506	Thank you. You meant to tell all Croatian citizens, Mr. Bunjac. All Croatian citizens, not all Croats, were also Serbs, Italians, all of them. Okay, thank you. Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66507	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the Croatian Peasants' Party club to discuss problems in Croatian agriculture. In fact, we all care about Croatian agriculture and agriculture have been placed in the strategic branch of the Croatian economy, and is it in reality that we do everything to make it the best possible to say the data that Mr. Grbin and Panenić spoke about, that because of our slow reaction or inaction Croatian agriculture continues to record losses in production, that imports are growing and that the number of family farms is still a trend in decline. We currently have 164458 agricultural holdings in Croatia. Of which 2554 companies, 2174 crafts, 347 cooperatives, 192 remained forms and 159191 family economies. I remind you that somewhere around 19,000 family farms were listed in the register, and here's the current data, that's 159,000. Will we stop this trend from dropping the number of family farms? There were great expectations from this government, from Minister Tolusic, as he announced on all bells a turn in the approach to agriculture, agricultural production, and we had great expectations of the Law on unfair commercial practice. It has been passed and the HSS has supported it and needs this law, however, our family farms continue to have problems with the placement of their agricultural products due to these enormous imports. They had high expectations about the adoption of a new Agricultural Land Act and it was passed. However, he is late to apply because the minister has given the deadline of 180 days to adopt 18 regulations, while tasking local and regional self-government units to bring new programmes to state agricultural land within 90 days. And in order to be able to pass, the first minister must adopt a regulation that makes it possible to make available to state agricultural land in the area of the unit of local self-government it must be contained, in which way it will be developed and only afterwards can it go to tendering for leases and concessions and the sale of state agricultural land. I remind you that we are already in March, that by 30 May, family farms must report what they will produce and submit a request for the payment of incentives, and yet they are not sure whether those particles for which their contract expired will be able to report in their demands. An urgent solution must be made to ensure that those family farms which have expired the contracts can enter those same particles into their demands, otherwise I do not see how they will be entitled to pay for the support. And what is especially important for us to say here today, that we here are forced to have an emergency procedure to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, and the Law on Family Agricultural Economics, which we expect a lot of, and we and our family agriculture, have not yet come to another reading, so my question is why is that? What is this relationship to our OPGs saying is that you have a more important Rules of Procedure and that you silence the opposition, even though we are going through our discussions and replicas to try to be constructive, at least we from the HSS? who is bothered by 12400 replicas, and you do not mind that 159,000 OPG is and which is 20,000 less than there were and which probably threatens to be and less because if Petrochem is put out in the Box we will not have domestic production of artificial fertilisers, the importers will have a monopoly, the prices will rise repromation and we will again bring into financial problems even greater our OPGs. We protest that this law did not come here in the procedure and that it continues through the proposal of the law which was in the first reading attempts of the OPG to be classified in the category of crafts,... and I see the number of crafts in Croatia falling. And we need to create a legal framework so that the OPG can develop because there is no development of agriculture without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66508	Thank you. Sir, first of all, Mr. Jovanovic and who else is looking? Ice cream, write it down, ice cream... Afterwards, don't ask for a word, Sladolev, Pusic... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wait till we see, first Mr. Jovanovic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66510	Thank you, Mr. President, I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club in order to prove a problem which, due to the ignoring of the local community's position, is decided by the congregations of the Primorian Mountain and Municipal Council of Omisalj, ignoring the Constitution and all the positive regulations, by pushing a floating terminal to the detriment of all that the citizens of Omis and the Primorian Mountain County have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66511	Thank you very much. Ice cream, Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Bridge of Independent Lists, I request a break regarding the situation in the Croatian Chess Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66513	Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66514	Mr Vice-President, I request a break on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club to warn of the danger of violating the democratic procedure in the vote scheduled for today, unlike the vote on the Rules of Procedure, today we are scheduled to vote on the President of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, with only one candidate, and we want to say something about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66515	Okay. Mr. Lenrat, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66516	Dear Vice President, I demand a 10 minute break on behalf of the HSS Club on the subject of the economic political situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66517	Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66518	Thank you, dear Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I want to talk about three constitutional lawsuits currently under review in the Constitutional Court for the scandalous verdicts of the high court.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66519	Okay, that'll be all. So there's going to be a break, there's going to be MPs who asked for a break and then there's going to be a vote. Thank you. Continuation is at 12.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66520	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.15 HOURS]] Hello! And now we're going to have a debate. [[Applause.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected counterpart Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66521	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point out once again the inadmissible legislation of the violation of the Constitution, the decisions of the Municipality of Omisalj, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. Therefore, lex LNG, which is announced by all accounts, represents an inadmissible law enforcement of the law, the Constitution, the European Charter of Local Self-Government in the Republic of Croatia. We MPs must be guided by two basic signposts in our work. First of all, we must represent the interests of our citizens from the units we come from. And secondly, we swore to obey the Constitution and the laws. According to all we can hear the announced lex LNG for a floating terminal is not in the interest of the citizens of Omis, Krk and Primorje-Gorski County as it is not in accordance with the Constitution, the existing laws and acts of the Municipality of Omisalj, the Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski County, and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It is obvious, therefore, that it is only in the interest of certain stakeholders. And it's clear that the floating terminal isn't neutral for people and the environment, it doesn't bring benefits to the local community and that's why it's impossible to support it. I repeat that the announcement of this law is also a harsh violation of the democratic procedure, and the floating LNG does not meet the four basic conditions set, so-called. four Es - ecological, energy, economic and aesthetic criteria. It's impossible not to express dissatisfaction that he's trying to redeploy the idea of land into a floating terminal. Only land terminal construction calculations suggest that a 500m-euro project of which 200m euros would be employed would have a number of multiplicity effects and benefits for the local community, the GDP would increase 0.5% and thus be pushed by a floating LNG terminal for which all indicators that we have and an environmental impact study show that it is jeopardising both the environment and future economic projects of which the population of the Primorje-Gorski County and Krka expects to improve the quality of life. I must therefore point out today that the Omisalj Municipal Council has reached conclusions that clearly state that it disagrees with the construction of the proposed floating LNG terminal because the kind offered for the municipality is economically harmful and economically risky. The municipal council has come to another conclusion that the Environmental Impact Study has been done on a superficial basis, that it is not complete, that it is not professionally based precisely on the aspect of economic impact, the conservation of the environment, since the project is seriously jeopardising the fundamental economic activity, which is tourism. Equally, the decision of the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly has been taken unanimously, which says it supports all strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia that do not have a negative impact on the environment and on existing economic activities primarily on tourism, as well as those that permanently make economic profits to the local and regional communities. It is found that the floating LNG terminal toilet as shown in the Environmental Impact Study and changes to the reception terminal on the island of Krk by introducing a vase of a floating terminal for reception, storage and implantation is not acceptable for the Primorje-Gorski County because it has a negative impact on the landscape, sea and use of space, and does not benefit the local and regional community of the Primorje-Gorski County, and is therefore supported by the continued implementation of the land LNG terminal project. What is important to point out is that these conclusions insist on all representatives from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County who recently held a meeting with the Mayor of the Primorje-Gorski County except those who did not attend the meeting, and come from the ranks of HDZ, so Mr Klaric, Boris and Kirin. However, a joint meeting of the head of Krk was held yesterday, where SDP chiefs, PGS, the HDZ, also made it clear that they were against the floating terminal. Therefore, my colleagues and colleagues take this opportunity to invite all citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County and beyond to join us tomorrow on Korz at 12 o'clock and to say no to this dangerous plan, a floating potential disaster that will destroy Omisalj, Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66522	And now Gary Kasparov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66523	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I see that this break has caused a mockery among some colleagues, but for uninformed information that Croatian chess is currently more than 3000 registered chess players in Croatia, and that this sport deals with very, very many people especially children and that somewhere in some countries chess is an electoral class in primary schools, so I would like to warn the fact and stress that the murky relations in sport are not only touching so-called. big sports such as football, sports that spin huge money, but that cloudy water has flooded and so-called small sports in which the amount of money that spins is almost insignificant, and it is about chess in Croatia. So, acting against the statutes has damaged children. That's the first fact. The Croatian chess alliance refuses to register the cadet club Breste against the Statute. In my opinion, it's personal revenge against the president of the Bresti chess club who was V.D. Secretary of the Croatian Chess Federation for a year by the ruling Executive Board. Furthermore, three people from the Croatian Chess Union were expelled against the statutes. The decision was taken by the Stegovna Commission without confirmation of the assembly, and people were not allowed to appeal. They've been neglected the remarks and the obviouss of their lawyers. Their human rights have been violated because they have been pointing to irregularities in the Croatian chess alliance that should be explored independently for two years. The purpose of the entire conduct of the current Executive Board of the Croatian Chess Federation is to cover up all activities from last term from 2012 to 2016 and to cover up the possible disappearance of money from the European Championship in Poreč from September 2015, which, by the change in the Croatian chess alliance, threatened to be revealed. The international organisation of the FID has already sanctioned the suspension of 3 years and 6 months in chess by two persons involved in the organisation of the Porec championship, who were hired by the Executive Board of the Croatian Chess Federation in 2015, after the European chess union has already launched international investigations against them. In view of the possibility of detecting possible financial irregularities from 2015 to the newly elected president of June 2016, the president of the Zagreb chess alliance unfoundedly destroyed the election assembly, the president's mandate was challenged and the persecution was ruled out. The secretary of the Croatian Shah Association did not report to the election assembly of the Public Administration Office, and therefore the Zagreb chess alliance ruins the election assembly and complains about the election of the president. This is where the legal possibilities for persecution started, and unfortunately the institutions did not react. Everything's been reported to the DORH, but here we are still waiting for a reaction. Only the tax inspection has established irregularities and violations of human rights, but they don't actually enter there, so it has established irregularities and possible criminal activities. They don't touch that. Due to such terror in the Croatian chess alliance, more than 3,000 registered chessists in Croatia suffer. It is our sad reality and we ask that the Government's Sport Office immediately take action to prevent such a huge violation of human rights and protect the dignity of sports workers, especially children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66524	We're going to the next debate. Dear colleague Vesna Pusic on behalf of the Glas and HSU Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66525	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Voice and HSU Club, I would like to warn and take this last chance in this regard to try to correct it on a fact that has been overshadowed by this debate on the Rules of Procedure, which we also think is very justified, given that it is the fundamental rules of parliamentary procedure. But this is about the law. Today will not vote on the Rules of Procedure, but will vote to insist on the ruling majority on the chairman of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. This vote, regardless of the opinion of the parliamentary committees that are working here, has room for that part of the procedure to be considered, so here they function on the principle of who is stronger, in other words, who has the majority will vote the committee to have both the right and that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the law even though it is shown in whiteness that it is not. So, by law, we should have at least two candidates for president, president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. We don't have that right now. We have an opportunity to choose, vote for one person or not. In this context, it is not only violence against the procedure but also violence against the law. I ask you to think about it and change your attitude and insist on this kind of violation of the law. And if this does not come to pass, the Glass and HSU Club will, in protest of this type of violence against the procedure and the law, give up its participation, so it will not participate in the vote and will not be declared to be against the anti-candidate of a candidate who is proposed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66526	Let's go to replica number four. ... is under debate number four of his respected colleagues, Željko Lenart, on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club. [[You don't understand.]] Here you go. jandroco
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66527	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, you representing the Croatian Parliament, respected fellow Members of the People who represent the Croatian people and respected fellow MPs who represent only your own interests. Again, we note the decline in industrial production in the Republic of Croatia. Let's remember in these 25 years that HDZ has been in power for 20 years of some of the industrial plants that have disappeared. Here is among the last Đuro Đaković, Željezara Sisak, Prvomajska, Gredelj, Toz, Dioki, and now Petrokemia, Agrokor and could be listed here for a long, long time. Since I'm a Kutincan and I really care what happens to Petrokemia, there are other former Kutincans who have moved away, but Kutina is always in their hearts. I've already talked twice about Petrochemia and only the little effort that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to make and to guarantee Petrochemia that it can buy gas on the free market, Petrochemy would stand on its feet. But it can't be done. I asked this unfortunate gas recently through a representative's question to see what's in that contract, what's the price of gas and under what conditions Petrochemy gets gas. You know what the institutions or institutions have said to me. The Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia? That it is a secret and that I, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, cannot see what is and how is obtained in a company that is crucial to the Republic of Croatia but also Croatia is also the majority owner. The law of law, so I wish they'd made as much effort as this unfortunate Rules of Procedure to make this executive law. Every morning, on Croatian television, we can watch the announcements of these unfortunate people who have been completed, whose claims are taken away from property that is paid for small amounts by huge and inaccessible amounts. I appeal to you gentlemen to think about it, don't work so hard on the Rules of Procedure. The departure of young people from Croatia. So what could these young people who were at the gallery conclude from all this? It would be best for the Republic of Croatia to grant them a subsidy to go to Germany, and it obviously fits some as well. Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the reduction of rights, freedom of speech, and already now MPs are slowly stopped to speak in some way. We all have immunity here for what we say while we are in the Croatian Parliament. And the private lawsuits for which we're not being stripped of our current immunity await us when we're not going to have that immunity. Many MPs watch what they say so that thousands and thousands of kunas would not have to pay after that time when they are no longer represented. It's unfortunate that we, the important laws, are not only this Rules of Procedure, we bring to a deaf time of night. There's a lot of law in there, any one that slips into a deaf time of night. It's a model that used to work on working tips in socialism. After working time working advice and the last point is to expand the factory or the director buys a new car and everyone to go before home raise their hand just to solve the problem. Laws are also passed in the Republic of Croatia. We must say that we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, are not deciding anything. Everything that comes to these benches is already decided somewhere. The one who decided has a majority in the Croatian Parliament and he brings what he is up to on Friday, no matter how good or bad it is for the Republic of Croatia and for the people in the Republic of Croatia. That's why we're in a situation like this today for our young to leave Croatia. I'm asking you, who's going to work here? Who will live in the Republic? Do you think everyone will be members of the HDZ? Well, my men won't. Well, there were bigger totalitarian regimes, remember Romania and Ceauescu, so they fell. There's no force or ban on speech or freedom of speech. That's one short term. There are also doctors of science here, and professors and many educated and educated people, so I appeal to their conscience. Do you think you should keep your mouth shut? You guys have kids, too. You'll have grandchildren. Then they will be in the troubles which you have cooked for them this day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66528	We're going to the last debate. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives' Club and the Power, respected colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66529	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Lenart after the Kutinchan, another Kutinchan. I'm also from Kutina, but right now, Zapresic, and probably for a very long time. But it's not the subject of my exposure. The theme of my presentation is constitutional lawsuits. At this moment, three constitutional proceedings are under way in the Constitutional Court for three constitutional lawsuits against the scandalous verdicts of the High Court of Violation. The High Infringement Court has scandalously found that banks that have never agreed with their debtors are not to blame under the law which has been laid down by the infringement provisions that banks will be punished for not agreeing the parameters for changing the interest rate. Therefore, the High Infringement Court found that the banks that sent the debtors the most common notices and not even recommended it, but by simple mail and in those notices wrote that interest rates are changed on the basis of some parameters which the banks themselves, unilaterally and outside contractually defined that this was not punishable under the law, and in the law of the Consumer Credit Act, that banks would be fined precisely if they did not contract with debtors the interest rate change parameters. And because the High Violent Court so scandalously freed the banks we have launched, better said the Franak Association has launched, I, apart from being the chairman of the General Board of the Power Party, am also a volunteer at the Franak Association and continue to volunteer. So I'm not just doing this job at the Parliament, and I'm volunteering out of business. So, the Franak Association as someone who protects the right of consumers unlike a government that does not, has written constitutional lawsuits to individuals, debtors, prosecutors against banks and these constitutional lawsuits have been handed over to the Constitutional Court. Since Franak is keenly interested in ending these proceedings for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, the charges brought by the infringement courts and on the basis of which the constitutional action was brought to the Constitutional Court do not benefit the debtors but go to the benefit of the State. Therefore, since the Franak Association is interested in ending these proceedings for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, and not for the benefit of the unfair banks of the Association "Franak" is as amicus leak, so as a friend of the court, it referred the submission to the Constitutional Court in which it further explains what it is. I hope and believe that the Constitutional Court will make its decision on these three constitutional lawsuits very quickly and that if anything else, we will at least get a moral satisfaction that banks break the law. Unfortunately, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of a misapplication of the Association "Franak" against all these banks that have violated and violated and today the law has done nothing. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia does not have time to deal with matters which are carried by the Republic of Croatia potential several billion kunas for violations of the law, so we are forced to protect the rule of law instead of those who are paid for it. Therefore, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the High Violent Court does not protect the rule of law. They protect the right of banks, the right of banks given to them by the Croatian National Bank, as well as the rule of law of the Republic of Croatia. So the right to voluntarily, unilaterally, out of contract define interest rates and thus actually rob Croatian citizens. The banks have taken about 5 to 10 billion kunas through the increase of interest rates to Croatian citizens, I cannot know exactly how much, but these amounts are approximately. And I tell you that eventually all these amounts will be returned to Croatian citizens, but not thanks to the authority that does not, which does not do its job, but thanks to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are fighting for their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66530	Thank you, too. Sorry, pal Bunjac, something's coming up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66532	Thank you, well-respected President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGE Club, for a 10-minute break to discuss the citizens' problems in Hvar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66533	Citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66534	On Hvar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66535	Okay. At 15 and 15, we move on. A stop at 3:02 p.m. Resumption after break at 3:15 p.m. Comrade Bunjac, please welcome to the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGE Club. In front of a more numerous auditorium
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66537	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, as well as the only representative who listens to me. Here we have achieved a trust record in Parliament's history in the last 28 years, perhaps from the draft itself. Namely, the representative speaks to himself. However, I would like to say that this is the logical consequence of what the ruling majority is doing all the time, and it is working to curb all those values that are guaranteed in Croatia by the Constitution and all pre-election programmes where everything and everything is promised, and we see that we are essentially working to create a state without Croats. That is why it is logical for the opposition to rebel in such a way as to obstruct the session, as I have seen for a day and a half, and I would just like to remind you that according to the agenda, there is one more point after this point, namely, the law on the second pension column, on a pension allowance, and I call on all the representatives of the opposition to apply to that point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66538	We're not gonna do this, pal Bunjac. We're gonna finish today with the Rules of Procedure. We're gonna move this to next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66539	And thank you, here's the information we got. So I came forward to say that the inhabitants of the island of Croats who are let's say in a position that at least I can earn something in this country by my own initiative. Here's what a gentleman named Miroslav Mirkovic writes to me. My dearest representative in the Croatian Parliament, I address you because I have no one else to speak to in the Republic of Croatia. I'm listening to our president's statement that it's tragic that in the 21st century there is no electricity in the house. I inform you that on the island of Hvar, in the bays of the village of Gdinj, the Municipality of Jelsa about 150 households that rent more than that number of apartments and pay all taxes to the state do not have electricity but are managed through solar lighting panels as well as gas coolers, and also have no public water supply, sewerage or paved local road. They also paid a high price for legalising their facilities, and in return they got nothing. My dear representative and my only candidate, I hope that the public will only know from you this sad and sad truth, so let's see what reaction our masters will give. Here's the esteemed Miroslav, as you can see, the reaction will be given like this. Your concerns on the island of Hvar and the municipality of Jels are of interest to them as last year's snow. So the only thing that matters to them is that you pay all possible taxes, pay all possible taxes, pay all possible legalizations, as you've already paid, fill the budget, give these people this pay that they don't even want to listen to you. And the fact that in the first quarter of the 21st century you have no electricity, no water, no sewers, no local road, they don't care. So now that you've just found out what the reaction is, it's going to be your reaction for as long as this HDZ government is in power, it's actually one policy of continuity they're just not worried about citizens. They're only worried that they'll be okay, that the wages come in time, that they can make some kind of fashion in the Parliament, that they can buy expensive cars, that they can have with the drivers of those cars, that they can play some kind of size in front of the cameras. And that you don't have electricity in the village of Mr. Jelsa Municipality, so what do they care, so they're just as interested as the South African bird reserve. They don't care about that. They're their own purpose, they matter to themselves. But here I am glad that there are a few MPs here who have listened to this story, so I sincerely hope and I will do everything I can to make sure that your problem is solved as soon as possible. And be sure if we are able to decide your fate, it will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66540	The first is on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic, but before that, a colleague of Bunjac has something important to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66541	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Live Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA I am looking for a 10 minute break to discuss the problems of Croatian shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66542	Can we do it now or what? ... It's good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then 10, Here you go. ... [[/Intruder Bunjac: Thank you very much.]] No, it's not mine. Mine doesn't bother you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66543	Here I am also looking for a break since my colleague Bunjac is rested enough, not during the night, and I was during the night, so I'm looking for a break, but on the subject of Brodosplit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66544	Okay, fine. 15.55. It's 3:45 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.55 HOURS]] Ivan Bukarica is with us, Excellency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66546	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. So I'd like to talk about the condition of the shipyard, because I have alarming messages coming in at any moment. Here's one that came to me at three o'clock and 23 minutes. There's a gentleman writing to me. "Respect, Mr. Bunjac. I'm a shipbuilding worker in Trogir. The situation with us is alarming. We've been cut off. We haven't been paid any regresses, or Christmas Day, or jubilee awards. We've been bought by Danko Končar, and we're very ill-written. We don't know who to turn to. Neither the union nor the authorities are doing anything for the benefit of the workers. I personally wanted to be paid for the severance, but the employer won't give us the money. He wants us to leave alone without a single ransom of severance. A lot of the workers are mentally manipulated and we don't know what to do. At least we'd like some advice from you. Thank you in advance!" So this is about a shipyard in Trogir which is privatized, supposedly successful, and we see that it is not. And here I have a report on the state of the Uljannik Shipyard and May 3rd that allegedly still have some perspective, but let's look at exactly what's on it. The loss for 2017 is about 680 million kuna and an average of 2 million kuna per day. The average daily losses were about a million kunas in the last 5 years under the current administration. Only if we single out the subsidies for May 3rd can we claim that the daily losses were significantly higher. The third May business system can be claimed to be falling apart. The integration of Uljanika and third May into one company is planned so that loans of 450 million kuna from subsidies should not be returned. For illustration, listen to the state of new construction of two shipyards. New construction 513 was delivered with foams, a new construction of 500 has a loss of 15m euros. The new construction of 520 must pay not only for the foam but also for the foam pens. New construction 530 has a minimum loss of 20m euros, and the worst of all is ordered a similar ship at the same price. So ships and workers don't work within deadlines, they don't work because there are no more professional workers enough and they're paid for penalties. So basically only additional losses to existing losses are being made. From all of this, it is clear that the situation is alarming and that it requires urgent intervention. The state is exposed to 700m euros in guarantees, and there is a significant risk of bankruptcy until early August of this year as loans can not be returned including loans with the government's guarantee of the Republic of Croatia. I hope you've all heard. Bank of shipbuilding in early August 2018. In the Oil Group as well as in Brodosplit, there are huge debts towards suppliers and cooperatives, so similar to Agrokor can be expected chain cases of bankruptcy. There are still no serious strategic partners. The situation in Uljanik is characterized by generally great indiscipline and dissatisfaction, so expectations cannot possibly be good. The worst part is that the administration is disoriented, so it doesn't really know what to do in the current situation. To admit, it is not realistic to expect the administration that brought the Oilman into such a business situation to find a way out of it. Oilic and Third May are in an extremely difficult business situation despite capacity employment. Brodosplit as Croatia's largest shipyard is in an extremely difficult business position because it does almost nothing. Croatia's shipbuilding requires urgent integration, rehabilitation and a good restructuring plan. Otherwise, this year can result in the liquidation of Croatian shipbuilding with all the consequences it carries with it. For this reason, as we can see, four key Croatian shipyards, some of which have a centuries-old tradition, are on the verge of being shut down, and workers will go out on the street. The debts as we see them will have to be paid by the Croatian State as well. For this reason, I am sending a public appeal, and especially to the ruling majority, the Government and the Prime Minister himself, do you need Croatian shipbuilding and if you need it in what way do you intend to solve its problems? This is a very serious appeal, it's only been working for a few months how much shipbuilding can survive in these conditions in which it is now. I hope that some solution will be found, not that we have a situation like lex Agrokora again that at the last minute someone grabs his head and realizes that the company has gone to waste, in this case the whole shipbuilding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66547	The second club of representatives is MOST independent lists of respected Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u66548	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues at the last plenary session, on parliamentary issues at the plenary session, i.e. My inquiry was to Prime Minister Plenkovic what the government did about Brodosplit on the basis of the report that we have each year and here we are discussing on the basis of the State Audit report, which clearly said that the subsidies amounted to a billion and a half kuna are not used for purpose. I got a response from the prime minister back then that Brodosplit was in trouble. On this basis, because of the importance of Brodosplit and for the demographic image and aware that the owner has an obligation to restructure and consolidate the company and that the deadlines are past, aware that the agreed obligations regarding ship construction are not met. The only thing that the most professional frames from welders to designers went to other shipyards from Korea, South Africa all over the world. And of course I was waiting for that answer and I got it a few days ago. I sent him to the public yesterday. None of my questions are answered except that the prime minister replied that Brodosplit had paid off all the obligations that the state and subsidies had, even so he did not say he would not say about the subsidies, regardless of what we MPs know and what the find of the State Audit warranted the Ministry of Economy to take four years, to take all steps to save the shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia. Because if money was received for shipbuilding, if this is a developmental branch and if this is the most important thing in the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia is once 60 buses from the Dalmatian Zagora workers left for Brodosplit in the morning, now go two vans, and a billion and a half kuna invested. He doesn't even say how private he is... i.e. Now the owner of how much he invested, or whether he fulfilled the obligations of the contract on the construction of 14 ships, is not. So the funds are not invested in shipbuilding, this is confirmed by the report, but Prime Minister Plenkovic does not answer the question that is being asked but that justice and washing hands are piatian because he is simply aware that these funds have not been invested in the construction of ships, while Skver is one of the world's most awarded shipyards for the best built ships and passenger and tankers. And at this point, it is waiting for the European Commission and, of course, the European Commission to say what. Here I have a personal interest in the development of shipbuilding as an industrial branch, not in giving the money given for shipbuilding who knows which companies he goes to and where he goes. Do not wash your Pilate hands to Prime Minister Plenkovic, answer this question, the issue of workers and their jobs is the issue of survival in Dalmatia. It is a key resource for development and economics it is a Split Square that has tied up both cooperatives and everything that has gone into service activities. However, the current branch that we once boasted about in the world is now at the bottom and the workers are terrified. If we need to encourage another billion and a half kuna, but to build ships and develop shipbuilding. Because then why do students study in Split shipbuilding, engineering, what do we prepare them for if we don't have shipbuilding in Split? We're training them to go to foreign shipyards. Plenkovic continues to wash pilate hands, Martina Dalic probably kept her mouth shut, admitted that she also wrote lex Agrokor, which is why the workers of Brodoplita expect a response because they fear for their future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-02-0.u73174	Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of an opinion request on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted by the representative, Peja Grbin. I stress that I am based on Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without discussion. I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament submitted by the representative, Peja Grbin. Please, let's vote. I find that as 116 votes for, 3 abstentions, the majority of votes accept the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the representative of Peđa Grbin.
