ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66288	Your Honor. I'm looking for a break to talk about the problems of financing snow-cleaning that local units have on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66289	A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66290	Thank you, Mr. President. In the name of the Life of the Wall and of the SNAGA Club, I am asking a 10 minute break to speak after a break about two African powerful verdicts very important to Croatian debtors and the French verdict of the EU Court of Justice very important for the arbitration in Washington.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66291	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66292	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on improving the work of the public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66293	All right. A colleague of Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66294	I'm looking for a 10-minute break to talk about a bad situation on May 3rd.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66295	Is anyone else picking up? If not, it's 9:00.45. [[It's 9:00.32.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We continue our work, the first in line is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the esteemed colleague Marko Vesligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66297	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, for the past few weeks, the entire area, Croatia, has been hit by heavy snowfalls that have caused major material damage, as well as costs primarily for local self-government units, which are responsible for cleaning snow on unclassified roads that are within their jurisdiction. In particular, small municipalities and towns in the hills of the Republic of Croatia have been affected, with few inhabitants, with large areas, places where people live scattered in villages, with many kilometers of roads connecting them. Due to winter rainfall in these areas, most of the unclassified roads have been cleaned practically day and night. The winter service of numerous cities and municipalities has been in full operation for several days to prevent the creation of snow applications, which would make it impossible to actually communicate normally. All local units have done this, because in hilly areas where the biggest problems were, there are a lot of old ageing populations, many of them need regular medical care and there is never a maximum involvement of all available facilities for winter service. At that point, you just don't ask and you don't think because you know it's your job. However, many budgets will find themselves in trouble when underlining, as they are planned for winter service in these cities and municipalities, they have been exceeded three times compared to the planned funds. And the only option, at least partial fees can come from the state budget. The extreme conditions, unfortunately, this year, hit a lot more territory of the Republic of Croatia than it did in previous years. The mountain cotter is a permanent problem and several times the necessity of actually solving this problem has already been warned several times by the mayor of the Primorje Goran County, where it is required to pass a special law on the area. However, problems are also in continental counties, especially in northern Croatia, which is particularly affected this year, for example in Krapina Zagorje County, the costs of winter service have exceeded 2 million kunas, compared to the planned funds and there is still a minimum need to secure around 3 million kuna for this year, as snow can, of course, be at the end of the year, and after this winter, additional problems such as the activation of the rink are expected. If you look at the average income per capita, unfortunately most local units in those areas, are located at the bottom of the income per capita, despite strong economic growth, despite employment growth, it is of little use for local self-government units, since the majority is pouring into the state budget. The configuration of the terrain, the spread of the population, which has a tradition of living in hilly areas, which I think should be kept, because it is part of the identity of that area, condition that road infrastructure, much more in kilometers, is more expensive for construction, and later much more expensive for maintenance, especially in such winter conditions. Unfortunately, the development index, which has become our main and only instrument of regional policy, has not taken into account the size and network of road failures, the construction of these roads and maintenance costs generated. A new Law on mountainous mountainous areas is being announced, which can hardly solve these problems, as many areas with weaker fiscal capacity will remain out of its reach, leading to new injustices again. We have the regional policy that we have, which comes down to asking for help, instead of ensuring equal conditions for everyone's development. Because a serious system has to recognize this big problem that happens year after year. And if we want people to stay in smaller environments, then we need them to provide minimum living conditions. And not when a stronger winter comes to question other functions, which units of local self-government should perform. When it comes to preschool education, investment in the construction of municipal infrastructure, even when it is added that many of these local units are reported by a large number of EU funds projects, and most of them require some co-financing, then you are brought to the wall. Because the revenues they have, especially continental local units, are negligible. In fact, our residents are many times citizens of the second order. It all comes down to the help of a central state that has a bag. The very notion of local self-government and what it means in the European context in Croatia is due to the lack of will to decentralisation completely without logic. Because in Croatia, a central model of the state is in place that requires a certain position of local self-government, not a partner relationship between these two levels of government. Because if it were a partnership, then I wouldn't be here asking for help on behalf of a number of local units, because that's all we have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66298	We are going to another debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66299	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues from week to week all I'm saying is that it's true and it's only true. And it's confirmed where? In the courts. So I have to talk about three very important rulings that have been made these days in the Republic of Croatia and also in Luxembourg in the EU court, to start from the beginning. The Court of Justice in Pula has rightly established that the debtor has subscribed his interest and that the bank must return the interest and tighten interest, belonging to a tight interest rate and has found that there is no statute of limitations. Why is there no statute of limitations? Because the collective service, in the case of an old-fashioned franc, began to run from the beginning of the day of power of judgment in the collective case of franc, which is 13 June 2014, most of the county courts judge, so almost all the first-degree courts thus, however, one county court did not rule, so we still have to wait for the final decision of the Supreme Court, which will evenen the case-law. I hope that's soon. Another important ruling by the Zagreb County Court is very important for those people who have been conventionaling CHF loans. Why does it matter? Because the County Court in Zagreb found that after the conversion of the CHF loan there was still a legal interest in determining the integrity of the contractual provisions. The Bank complained about the judgment of the Municipal Court in Split and demanded that it be abolished because the bank's representative claimed that the conversion had stopped the legal interest in establishing the integrity of the contractual provisions. However, the Zagreb County Court rightly found that this interest still exists and that the conversion could not end anyone's right to call for the nullity of the contractual provisions. It is an excellent verdict that raises hope and faith that after a new judgment of the High Court of Commerce, which I believe will be positive that all debtors who converted CHF loans will be able to further sue and receive additional amounts overpaid because in the conversion they get only 50% of what they would have declared to be complete integrity or contracts or currency clause CHF. And finally, the third ruling, which is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, is the EU court ruling C284/16, which was adopted on 6 March 2018, which is the ruling in the case between the Netherlands and Slovakia where the previous issue of the EU court was asked to eat clauses from a bilateral contract signed by the Netherlands and Czechoslovakia, then ate the anti-EU investment clause. The EU court also found that the clause on the protection of investment in a bilateral agreement is contrary to EU law. Why does it matter to the Republic of Croatia? Because the UniCredit has just launched arbitration in Washington on the basis of such a bilateral contract. From the very beginning, I and my associates from the SNAGA party and the Franak Association have been arguing from the very beginning that the arbitration centre in Washington is not in charge of arbitration in the case launched by the UniCredit, and is not in charge because the clause from the bilateral contract with the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia is contrary to the law. And here is the EU Court of Justice of 6 March 2018, confirming that what I say is exactly what I say. This has given the Republic of Croatia strong tools to get out of this dispute, but I expect even from UniCredit as legalists because they are legalists, each bank must be legalist. If they are legalists they must come out of this dispute and if they want to sue the Republic of Croatia they have trade courts in the Republic of Croatia so they can sue the Republic of Croatia in commercial courts and let them seek their rights on the basis of eu rights, not on the basis of the lobbying of banks through the World Bank. I congratulate both our courts and the EU court on excellent judgments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66300	Third debate of respected counterpart Zeljko Glasnović, A Club of Independents for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66301	Dear colleagues. We have stepped into the third millennium well step forward is Croatia ready for the challenges that come in this world where a cultural ideological battle is being fought on a global scale, where the resources disappear? Are we ready for those challenges that are coming? It has been almost 30 years since we won the Croatian state, and we have not yet created an efficient system and functional state. Why is that? We see people here, some of them I watch from the parties you read from open sources information writes some wish lists, but these wish lists aren't real if some of the basic things and actions aren't in place. We live in one legal confusion, as an example of the average business plan is ten years, and we change the laws every year. Who's gonna invest here? Today, the Strategic Investment Act will be read, it's just a dead letter on paper, if some things don't improve, the basic things in the country. Here's the media, what are the media reporting? If we were to read the media, it was read in the Parliament the National Security Strategy plan, if you were to watch electronic media, you would think that the biggest internal threat to Croatia is Zdravko Mamic. What kind of country did we get? We got a state where I'd say the emperor's authority stopped at a village fence, a dysfunctional state. We have two key problems. The first problem is a moral ethical problem, and the second is a human problem. For the first problem is the law's solution, it has to come into force, it's the first solution. If we live in a moral mess, you have examples now in HAC where they've been pulling money out there, the IRS, the post-mortem aid, the Sisak Road, I'd think we almost live out there in the Middle Ages where road robbers harass. Only this happens at the state level, strategic, operational-tactic level, from strategic level to local self-government, the law does not rule. How do you figure that out? Here are some countries where civil servants, if they're wrong, if they're involved in corruption affairs, if they haven't worked automatically get five years in prison and lose all benefits from retirement next. Secondly, does Croatia have retroactive laws on corruption, war profit, I would say treason and high treason, issuing national interests? Of course we don't have a rhetorical question. What about the Law of Origin of Assets? That would solve a lot of problems. None of that looks like it. Second, professionalizing personnel. There won't be any of these grand plans of strategy, of development, of investment if we don't make one professionalization of personnel at the public administration of the ministries and there isn't a mechanism of control over the staff working in those services. In the former state, today we see what's going on in the country. In the former state, he was nearly beaten, one sense of individual responsibility killed. The initiative today if you have an army headquarters, if you have one organization it cannot function without initiative and individual responsibility. Good ideas to come we're from above down than from down to higher levels. These people have to get involved in building, building a system. Not just listen to half-tronic and nod. No more air-conditioned and half-trons. At the end of why the government didn't now gather all the ministries into one building, let's say the cube down, the cube, the former central committee set up one headquarters and made down the privatisation of tasks and one detailed breakdown. Because the way the ministries are now spread all over town, it would be much more effective to build a headquarters down there and start doing it right. Here, it's just the beginning of it, but if we don't take these steps first with the frames, we won't go far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66302	We are going to the fourth debate of respected colleagues of Ines Strenja-Linić on behalf of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66303	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs. I need to talk to you about May 3rd. The third May which from any corner of the city of Rijeka you look at, the view will fall on that shipyard that has always been the pride of my city. The current situation in May 3 is the reason why my break today is approaching the worst possible scenario, the workers will not get paid and there is not enough money to finish the starting ships unless this is resolved these days. So May 3rd since 2013 is part of the Oil Keeping. Such an arrangement was welcomed in its own way as a straw of the rescue of the river smurf, but it is now being threatened and shut down by it. And the administration of the Third May and the Oilman must take responsibility for it. At the time of November in the current hour, I warned the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Martin Dalic, that in the group and related companies, the Third Maja Uljannik had borrowed more than half a billion kuna from what the management in all the media had promptly responded, it was essential to say that this was my political issue and that everything was completely under control. And I just wanted to warn you that 10,000 jobs are for those who work or are connected as cooperatives. At that time, the Deputy Prime Minister also said that the 2016 State Audit report requested budgetary supervision for May 3rd, as the Ministry of Economy observed that the debts of suppliers were increasing and notes that it had no direct jurisdiction over the Uljanik but was warned that it would reduce the debt. It was then about the debts of some 160 million suppliers. Unfortunately, what's happening right now is what I warned you about. After a 96m-euro government guarantee short-lived fire in Uljanik, a new crisis has erupted these days. Because the Oil Group can't pay back some of the money to the Third Maya. So what's being said these days is that an oil-supply loan can't end up in Rijeka. Those responsible at the Ministry of Economy insist that no euro of the Sanantia loan should be transferred to Rijeka because the Briselle loan was formally arranged by the Uljannik Shipyard and not by the Uljannik Holding. In fact, let me remind you, May 3rd shows a paper minimum profit for last year, there's work but it can't be done because there's no money for the purchase of materials or for wages. The result is loans to companies within the Oil Group in amounts greater than half a billion kunas of living money that now have no place to go. For such a situation are the most responsible administrations and river smuggling that did not protect the interests of the company they ran but saved the Ulnik group. The Third May Shipyard became a victim of dubiosis in the Pulski škver and to make the matter worse, it is as if it had successfully concluded its restructuring. I must point out that Rossanda then commented on the use of state money paid to third May for loans to companies linked to companies within the Group Oil Group and then commented on my inquiry that part of the third May's income outside the restructuring programme was used for loans within the system because, as third May said, it was integrated into the system and problems in the system would also mean problems in the third May itself. And where are we now? Is this third May part of that system? It was the oil man who gave his hand to the Third Maya when he was threatened with closure in 2013. The result was the long-standing wrong decisions of his administration but also of politics. At this point, however, I repeat the threat of collapse not because of my own bad business but because of the link to the Oil Group. They should also be aware of this in the government, which is expected to be an urgent solution before it is too late. So, Vice President Dalic, it's up to you. A thousand 400 families of my city live from the Third May and want only to be able to work fairly, earn their wages, want material to be able to complete the ships. Because according to the union commissioner, Third May is literally a dead shipyard whose life is only given to workers who enter the mall and have nothing to do because there is no material. On Friday, an extended session of the Primorje-Gorski County Economic and Social Council was called up to which all those who could try to find a solution from the situation were invited. I hope after Friday there will be some shift because the main move is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66386	Thank you very much. Here we are to welcome the students of the Faculty of Law from Osijek who came to listen to us before... We move on to the next one. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66387	Dear President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club on the issue of the Knin University of Mark Marulic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66388	Okay. Then I'll set a break. ... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It can't be right now. We respect the Rules of Procedure. Unlike some, I'll always respect the Rules of Procedure, so I'll see you in 15 and 7 minutes. MEETING IN 14.55 HOURS A colleague Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, said something after the break. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.06 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66390	Thank you very much, dear academic vice president of the Parliament, Mr. Rainer. Here, we all mention investments and... However, we have cases in Dalmatia, in particular, a very important project worth 10.5m euros in Knin, the innovation centre of the Marko Marulic Veluca in Knin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This project should cover the overall development of the entire area, which would allow the use of high-tech knowledge in the area of food technology in local, regional agricultural producers, and on the other hand would enable students of the Veleučite to practice professional activities on concrete facilities. The project includes the construction and equipment of innovation centres around 4000 square metres of closed space as a technological park containing a total of 9 pilot production facilities from the food industry, then a laboratory, classroom, kitchen, cafeteria and storage facilities, and close-up inspection fields for the production of certain agricultural cultures. This project was prepared 7-8 years ago and is the first project in the Republic of Croatia that was ready for implementation on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. A total of three groups of domestic and foreign consultants selected and funded by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds were prepared. Complete construction documentation, ideas, main and implementation projects have been prepared. Designed and designed all technology units, as well as resulting location and construction permits. In August 2014, a building permit was activated, which is currently valid. More than a million kunas have been spent on the preparation of the project, which does not include the cost of own staff of the university and the company Matice d.o.o. The project was registered to the first EU Structural Funds tender titled "Seema awarded grants for business infrastructure" to which it was three times adapted precisely because of projects of the Velečite Centre Marko Marulic in Knin. At that time, due to the political games of local and some national politicians, the project was rejected, with local and regional economies also doing immeasurable damage. The project hasn't been implemented today. There are no personnel at the University of Knin capable of carrying out the project. It is possible to hire external experts, and the resolution ministry is deafening all calls for you to be at Knin City Hall to repair and stabilise. Here, I have in front of me a 3D visualization of the future object and a photo of part of the project documentation for this project. Indeed, the first 10.5m-euro project in Knin, where people would be educated in agricultural and food production, has been boycotted for years. The only policy in the Dalmatian Zagora is coming in a day of Storm, there is no investment, and this investment, which was the first one ready to enter the EU, is boycotted, and do you know how significant this would be as 10.5m euros in investment, and how important it would be for human education and for the production of agricultural and food products, as well as the education of people who are experts, which would basically be future experts, who would have, which would create huge human potential in terms of what we need in Dalmatia, is production and agriculture. Food production. Mr. Prime Minister, if you're listening to this, I'm going to send you this issue in writing today, and I'm going to have a press release in this area next week in Knin, so I'm going to send you from the scene of the painting and photos of the project that's been under construction for 10 years, and since joining the EU, it's been boycotting in the realm of the royal city of Knin. Well, here's to the arrival of a new time ahead of us, for the Storm, I expect Prime Minister Plenkovic will give the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66391	Thank you very much. Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66550	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club about a sad story of the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66551	Well, then I see that my colleague Pernar has raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66552	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66553	Are we going to talk about a happy story or a sad story?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66554	I'd like to talk about the problem of Palestinian children being tried in Israel in front of a military court.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66555	Okay. Then at 16,12 minutes we'll see each other again. It's 4:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66556	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,12 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66557	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about a sad story from my hometown, meaning the Medak family whose life has turned into hell and whose struggle has lasted for almost 20 years. So it's about the Marine and Nenada Medak families from Metkovic who were still in '97. Someone falsified Nenad's signature on the loan agreement. The story goes that a former colleague of Nenad's raised a 15.7.2017 loan of 100,000 German marks at the then-Dubrovska Banka, while the debt grew to more than 2 million kuna, counting an agreed interest of 11% and legally tight interest. The full 8 years since the 13th of January 2009 of the Metkovic Municipal Court received a record of the execution on their house, the struggle of the Medak family trying to prove that the contract was falsified, i.e. That Nenad never signed it. The debt was at that time 850,000 kuna, and how much today, I am afraid to think, the man said in a statement to the media. Even from the Centre for Criminal Arts Ivan Vučetic in Zagreb, these people have the official findings of the artists according to which Nenadov's signature is falsified, in every normal state it would be enough to reject any suspicion of committing any crime, only in Croatia it has no value and the findings from “Ivan Vučetić” they got even in 2013, this is now 2018, it is still their legal struggle. And when you look at that fate that even one director made a documentary film, the son of Hrvoje Hitrec made a documentary about the tragic fate of the family, the problem should definitely be talked about here in the Croatian Parliament because the problem also points to problems in the Croatian judiciary. Of course, the Medak family also gave the municipal court in Metkovic as early as 2009, the first ruling in their favour, of course when they saw that response from “Ivan Vučetić” the court could not have ruled otherwise than that the contract was worthless. However, then the lawyers of the OTP Bank complained and this appeal goes to the County Court in Dubrovnik who after a little more than a year makes a decision that the contract is not harmful but non-existent and, of course, rejects their claim and repays it and that meant that they had no right to appeal but only to review the case at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the request for review was sent to the Supreme Court in November 2014. Imagine the problems that this family faces, 7 days after the request for review of the proceedings, the Medak family in Metkovic City Court filed a lawsuit for a non-existent contract as the County Court said in its ruling in Dubrovnik. The court in Metkovic again ruled in their favour and said the contract is non-existent but again complained about the ruling by the OPT Bank lawyers, the case is, of course, coming back to the County Court in Dubrovnik, which annuls the first-degree verdict and returns it to a retrial. What this family is experiencing is actually one picture of the situation in which the Croatian judiciary is located, their entire property is blocked, they can't live normally, it's a Croatian defender who said on several occasions if he takes his own life, that he will re-establish himself in the media one sick defender from PTSD, takes his own life, but see what has done to this man and this family to this cataract Croatian judiciary. His wife, in addition to that, suffered from a tumor she operated on, so they just don't know what to do anymore. I recently had a conversation with them at a hotel in Metkovic and I told them that I don't know what I can do, in fact I can't do anything except talk about it in the Croatian Parliament, and what's unfortunate is that we'll discuss the mini judicial reform as it is called HDZ, in the late hours. I call on fellow MPs here to seriously consider having one night of sleepless night again for the ruling majority and not allowing them to discuss the judiciary and their mini judicial reform in those late nights. I'm asking them to postpone, if they don't postpone, then here's a deal for us to go again with one whole night's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66558	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives' Club and SNAGA's break was requested by a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66559	Respect, ladies and gentlemen. Today, he would like to talk about an extremely important topic, the only country in the world that judges children in front of military courts. It is an Israeli entity that held as many as 313 Palestinian children in its prisons at the end of last year. Of course, the problem itself is terrifying and violates the Geneva Convention. One of them says that prisoners or civilians should not be driven by the state or from occupied territory in the country in which it is occupied, in this case Israel is undeniable in the occupation of the Palestinian country. This is the testimony of international law, which is witnessed by UN Security Council Resolution 242 which says Israel must withdraw from the west coast and eastern Jerusalem, that today, of course, we all know it has not retreated. It would be expected that Israel would settle down, it was expected that Israel would stop the occupation, stop torturing people in prisons, civilians, stop actually kidnapping children, stop destroying houses, steal other people's land, etc. etc. But we all know that Israel is not acting according to expectations but to continue with its stalking practice. The problem is terrible, and he is asking for the public to talk about it. The answer to the question why is next because from this very country we've been receiving for years I'd dare say for decades a lesson on human rights. It is from Israel that they tell us stories about how we in Croatia should respect human rights more, that we should return the property that was taken away 70 years ago, etc. Which personally wouldn't be a problem if Israel did the same. It means if Israel took away the property he took away from the Palestinians in '48. And later on, the Land Act, I'm thinking from '52. Or in '54, if Israel returned their property to the Palestinians, then Israel would have the moral right to say ok. We stick to international law and accept and we ask you to do the same. However, this Israeli lobby does not apply international rights to itself but only to others. So they're not saying that, we're going to give the Palestinians back the land, we're going to allow them to return to their homes from which we banished them. No, they say no, no return of property, no return of refugees, but we ask that our rights be respected. By what logic? And currently in the world there is a strong movement for a boycott of Israeli products and investments and I personally support this boycott and I believe that all Israeli investments should be rejected in Croatia, that the property that Israel has in Croatia should actually be confiscated. In doing so, I think of Pliva which, a pharmaceutical company that was taken over by the Israelis. I believe that the only way to respond to a breach of international law is to respond with a reciprocal measure, i.e. the expropriation of their property they possess in Croatia because it is the only language the Israeli entity understands and this is the only way in which it can actually point out the problem that exists because it is obvious that Israel ignores international law, violates international law and ultimately refuses the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in Den Hague for crimes against humanity which is committed over the occupied population and occupied land. And this time I express my clear support for the recognition of the Palestinian state by Croatia, because they need that recognition. They need maximum support at this point, because the Zionist fact is aggression on its own in order to put it to its peak, and there is no other way for the international public to sensitize, to act at international level, and to actually force Israel to start respecting international law. It's basically the only goal of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66560	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66562	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, the topic of the Dalmatian Zagora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66563	Excuse me, what's the topic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66564	The Dalmatian Zagora, forgotten by you and the others, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66565	Thank you very much. Don't take it, it's not just your Dalmatian Zagora, it's Croatia. Does anyone else have a request for a break? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At 5:00, we move on. 16:45 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.55 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Ante Pranic, requested a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to use this pause to talk about one of the biggest problems that is happening in the Dalmatian area and also to present a single initiative today with Mr. Miro Bulje for the first time. We have directed this initiative towards 36 units of local self-government that makes up the Dalmatian Zagora, areas from Knin, Sinj, Imotski to Vrgorac. Because when we look at the official 2011 census in the Dalmatian Zagora area of these local self-government units, there were 143 thousand and 203 inhabitants. But we have devastating statistics, if we look at 2016 and 2011, 26 thousand 451 people have moved out of the area. More than that, however, it is a devastating fact that it is difficult to see capital investments, state capital investments in both Knin and Sinj and Imotski and Vrgorca. Although we have a defined project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, I have nothing against this area but as a parliamentary representative coming from the region of Dalmatia, together with my colleague, Bul, and I hope that this will be supported by other parliamentary representatives coming from the Dalmatian community, we have presented an initiative to the government, which is a decision to set up advice for the Dalmatian Zagora concerning 36 units of local self-government. The Council itself is designed as an advisory body in the field of co-ordination of development and projects, implementation and monitoring of the use of European Structural Investment Funds, instruments and EU programmes, as well as of national sources that are being implemented in the field of Dalmatian Zagora. If we are late in the area by 2020 we want to welcome the development projects in 2027. The Council, acting president, would be chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, made up of 13 ministers, 2 mayors, all mayors and mayors from the region of Dalmatia Zagora, a total of 36 of them, representatives of development agencies, the Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik Knin County tourist community and representatives of HGK, HOK, HUP, representatives of Croatian roads, highways, forests, HEP, representatives of the University of Split and Zadar, the Dean of the University of Sibenik and Knin. The Council itself is designed to coordinate the implementation of projects financed from the European Economic Area, coordinate implementation and monitoring of the use of the Investment Plan for Europe and the European Fund for Strategic Investments and other centralised EU instruments in the field of the Dalmatian Zagora, guidance on investment in the region of the Dalmatian Zagora on the basis of the Strategic Framework of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, as well as monitoring the level of expenditure of all projects developed in the region of Dalmatia, as well as giving opinions and recommendations with a view to removing administrative and other difficulties. I believe that this is one last train to the Dalmatian Zagora, if we really don't want to keep the Dalmatinska Zagora clean debris, pure maquis from people, we see the intensity of this eviction, and I'm going to end my exposure today with a quote from Ivan Raos, that quote was banned in the former system from which it also emigrated the area of the Dalmatian Fire but now that we have an independent, independent state of Croatia again. The quote reads: “More than a thousand years this people lived on this stone, and every stone, with a hundred bloodstained. But he didn't give himself away... And the Saracen, and the Tatars, and the Turks, and the Milks, and the Germans, and the Hungarians, and all the devils, and the people stand... The blood of your diarrhoea, but the blood gives birth to roots, so deeper and deeper into the stone... And now, I will make it out of the stone! And when I do so, the vessels will be torn apart, and they themselves will die." Therefore, if there is no radical shift in the relationship of the state, central state and government towards the Dalmatian Zagora, we will be all the guilty who simply will not be in the territory of the Croatian people anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66568	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague for his explanation of the break. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66570	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66571	Okay. It was a different arrangement with your representative of the club. ... Okay, is there anyone else? [[The speakers didn't turn on the microphone, you can't hear.]] There's no one here. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 17.40. It's the 17th 27th hour. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.37 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Nikola Grmoy, requested a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66573	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's because somewhere behind 18.00 fat behind 18.00 hours of debate, this mini reform of the judiciary will come as called by the Ministry of Justice and the Croatian Government, I want to send several messages to the ruling. I find it embarrassing in a country that wants to be democratic that important laws like those that regulate one of the three pillars of government, which are the laws of justice to argue and bring under the auspices of the night. I remind the public that the government has even referred to six judicial laws in the procedure that are supposed to determine the future of our judiciary. The laws of the public were conducted during Christmas holidays when the public's attention was reduced to ensuring the laws were against the law on access to information rights for 15 days instead of 30 days. Last week, when we received our first schedule for this week's debate, the laws were not planned to be discussed. A new schedule was subsequently made, and they were suddenly pushed into the debate. I remind you that the same thing HDZ colleagues from the ruling majority did with the Water Act in December last year. They now want to discuss these laws quickly and overnight, so that the public does not hear how they plan to reduce the independence of the judiciary, which is explicitly guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I think it's important for the public to know that yesterday we sent two laws, the State Judicial Council Act and the Courts' Law, and that for these two laws, we had two and a half months of public debates, unlike those who had a public hearing for 15 days, and that we also had a round table in the News House on two laws, and we are preparing others, and that will be a real reform of the judiciary. A colleague from HDZ came to us, offered to end this debate at eight o'clock, to discuss these laws concerning courts, and to continue in the morning. If that's how we can agree to it, even though we find it absolutely inappropriate to discuss such an important topic of such important laws at such a late hour. So we'll wait, see if this debate ends at eight o'clock, if we're fooled, then we'll go with the breaks and we'll discuss the judiciary of the Croatian judiciary, which the entire public knows is in what state it is, let's discuss all night to deny those who claim that when we've been discussing the rules of procedure all night we've been discussing ourselves. No, we fought for the right to as Croatian representatives have the opportunity to open topics that are important to our citizens. So these laws from the judiciary will come to a debate somewhere behind a thick 18.00 hours and we expect to discuss it as far as 20.00 hours, and after the debate is concluded that we would all advocates in the morning, we see that there are very few representatives from some opposition parties here to give everyone a chance to discuss these laws, but also the state in which the Croatian judiciary is located. I think it's a minimum that the Croatian public expects, especially if the minister and the Prime Minister have announced that this is so-called. the minimum reform of the judiciary. So we are discussing the mini reform of the judiciary in the night, which shows that neither the minister nor the Prime Minister are proud of this reform, and that in fact this is not a reform of the judiciary, but that these are cosmetic changes that will not change anything, and that as a bridge we will offer, we have already given two laws in the process and I hope that they will be put on the agenda and discussed that we will have the opportunity to vote on them, but we will also give all these other laws that will be the real reform of the judiciary, and not the cosmetic changes offered here in these late hours at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u66574	I thank my esteemed colleague Gromoi. Comrade Grmoy, the clubs have agreed, and among other things, a representative of your club, Prof. The underdog agreed that we would continue to work tonight until 20.00 hours and that we would try to complete this package of united laws regarding the judiciary to continue working tomorrow at 09.30 as far as the state's law packages are concerned. Despite this, even though you have given the word what you have now asked for a break, and we will see who is sticking to the words you or I and you will see whether I will finish this session or end up working this session today at 8 o'clock or at 20.00 o'clock. Since you requested a break, we will extend to 20.15, as far as I'm concerned, we can stay until morning, and it depends on you whether you stick to the word that we all gave each other and I really ask you to stick to it. We're moving on with our work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73586	Let's get to the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 223; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 concerning Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to 2nd reading of the Law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? If so, we have respected Mario Antonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73587	Thank you very much. Honorable President, distinguished MPs and MPs. We have a final draft law on strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia and I would like to introduce you to this content after some consent after the first reading. Therefore, the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia was currently in force since 14 November 2013, and until now this Law has changed and been amended twice in December 2014 and in February 2016. Since the start of the implementation of the current Law, 36 projects have been included in the list of strategic projects of the total application value of just over 30 billion kuna. Of these 36 projects, 8 are from private sectors of energy, tourism and infrastructure, and 28 public from transport, infrastructure, water and communal economy, energy and science. Also, by today, the government of the Republic of Croatia has declared 17 projects with strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia the total declared value of just over 18.5 billion kuna. Of these 17, 3 are private from the tourism area, and 14 public from the area of infrastructure, water and communal economy and energy. The fundamental reason for the adoption of the new Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia is because of the need to ensure in national legislation the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 347/2013 of the European Parliament. Also, the adoption of a new Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia proposes the need for a stronger launch of the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia as the main driver of growth and development of the Croatian economy. The launch of an investment cycle within the meaning of this Act is a prerequisite for increasing the number of investments in the Croatian economy, which includes improving the conditions for the management of goods that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The Strategic Investment Projects Act reduces and significantly speeds up the process of coming up with the overall documentation necessary for the implementation of individual projects, which are naturally declared strategic. So far, the implementation of the current Law has shown a lack of understanding of certain provisions, and it is therefore proposed to adopt a new Law in order to remove these doubts in view of the disputes relating to certain provisions and to correct certain legal and technical shortcomings. The competent authorities for the implementation of the proposed Law shall be the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and Trade and the Agency for Investment and Competitiveness. In addition to the final proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the Energy Investment Sector Monitoring Centre, the CEI, which is currently also part of the second reading procedure in this institution, in the Croatian Parliament, this new Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, proposes that administrative verification of accepted applications relating to projects in the field of energy, which has so far been carried out by the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, investment is further carried out by the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts for all public projects, and the Investment Agency is competitive for all private and public-private projects. The proposed Law defines the procedures and ways of implementing investment projects of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, the course of project preparation, project implementation and investment in function. This Law also regulates criteria for the establishment of strategic investment projects of the Republic of Croatia, the procedure and content of the application of these, the procedure for the assessment, selection, preparation and implementation of the strategic project, the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, the award of concessions in relation to the implementation of strategic investment projects, and the issue of administrative acts relating to the implementation of these projects. It is important to stress that no strategic investment project will be possible to realise unless it complies with the existing spatial plans. In short, the key changes to the new law in relation to the current law are as follows: the criteria for the investment value of the project’s application have been reduced. The obligation to provide evidence of secured sources of funding of at least 10% of the total value of the project in the form of an armed deposit or bank guarantee within a period of 9 months has been deleted. The obligation to sign an agreement between the investor and the economy ministry, entrepreneurship and crafts before the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to declare the project strategic. The obligation to sign an agreement for private and public-private and public strategic projects has been prescribed. It is also prescribed a provision which defines that a private or public-private investor is required to prove and intend to implement the notified project, and prior to the conclusion of the agreement, it is mandatory to provide evidence that the project will be realised, and the evidence includes confirmation of the bank that the investor in the specific account intended for the implementation of the project has secured financial resources of at least 5% of the total value of the project or evidence of the amount of the previously invested funds in the implementation of the project also in that same amount, i.e. 5% of the project's value or binding letter of intent of the bank to demonstrate the willingness of the financing, i.e. the financial structure of the realisation of the project. Also, the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia has been redefined if it is a private strategic project whose scope of the procedure in the space includes a maximum of 50% of the real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia necessary for the implementation of the strategic project. In addition, a contractual penalty of 0.1% of the total value of the project is prescribed only in the event that the project is exceeded by the investor's guilt or in the event that investors give up on the implementation of the strategic project. As already mentioned, this proposed Law ensures the implementation of EU Regulation 347/2013, i.e. to make the implementation of energy investment projects supported by the Republic of Croatia and the EU more effective and included in the European list of projects of common interest, so PCI the so-called list,.../The speaker speaks English./............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Such projects will be included on the list of strategic projects on the Commission's proposal with automation. Furthermore, if there is a decision that an investment project will be financed from the European Structural and Investment Funds, which will be implemented during the programming period from 2014 to 2020 as well as in the future financial perspective of the Republic of Croatia, such a project will be included on the Commission's proposal in the list of strategic projects. It is prescribed that if there is a monitoring infrastructure and is necessary for the implementation of a project already included in strategic projects, such infrastructure will also be included in the list of strategic projects on the Commission's proposal. The proposed new law as well as so far provides for the establishment of an operational group for the preparation and implementation of each strategic project included in the list and the group is responsible for determining all the necessary prescribed procedures by the competent authorities which are part of the preparation and implementation of the project. The operational group is also responsible for the coordination and dynamics of the preparation of all the necessary acts and documentation for the implementation of the projects. This law should first and foremost be seen as an instrument that will allow the state administration to receive specific instructions and procedures in a relatively short time, how and when to prepare and implement an investment project either in the public or private sector. Finally, esteemed MPs and MPs, the new law will allow for continued work and decision-making by the commission to assess and identify proposals for strategic projects and allow for the realisation of a number of such projects in the Republic of Croatia. By its entry into force, of course, of the proposed law, the new law, the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia of November 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73588	I thank the secretary of state and we're going to the replicas now, we've got five of them, and first of all, we've got a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73589	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. We have one clue after I heard the State Secretary's opening statement and read this bill. It is clear that the Law on Strategic Investment Projects needs us and that the aim is to ensure the acceleration of all processes that will ensure the implementation of the project. The secretary of state pointed out that it is particularly important for energy investment projects that automatically come to the list of strategic projects, and then I come to a dilemma if we are passing new laws today, why is a new law being announced that will affect the implementation of a strategic project? Of course I'm talking about the so-called. lex LNG. But from everything you said, I immediately see why a new lex LNG is being announced, against which several thousand inhabitants of Omis, Krka, Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County protested. Therefore, this law is already in the announcement of the law of violation of the Constitution, violation of all the positive legislation relating to strategic projects, including this law. So you yourself said that in one article, that article 7 is prescribed criteria that must be met to make something a strategic project. Therefore, the first criterion to be stated is a valid spatial plan and compliance with the existing spatial plan. According to this, the floating LNG now pushing is not in line with the Omisalj municipality's spatial plan, which supported and accepted both the Primorje-Gorski County and the competent ministry. Therefore, pushing a floating LNG terminal is also a direct violation of this law that will take effect when we adopt it. We therefore again call on the government to establish a constructive dialogue with the municipality of Omisalj and the Primorje-Gorski County so as not to rape democracy and work against the interests of the citizens of Krk, Omis and the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73590	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Then a demo to another replica, dear colleague Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73591	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, here's my colleague Jovanovic. I'll say a little too much because he first answered the same question. The law states that no strategic project can be implemented unless it is envisaged by a spatial plan. By what spatial plan of the municipality, the city, the county, the state? A colleague Jovanovic mentioned LNG, I will only return to the past when it was the same energy project TE Plomin C-500 which was not in the Istrian County's spatial plan, but the interpretation of the ministry came to be strategic because it was envisaged by the energy strategy, and now we see that as well as LNG that this project is of strategic importance not only for the Republic but also for the EU. In what way does this law mean to solve these problems I will say development, especially in this energy if by spatial plan of the municipality, city or county it is not envisaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73592	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73593	Thank you very much. Maybe by surprise, I won't ask a question about spatial planning, there's an article... The constitution that says that spatial planning is in the jurisdiction of units of local self-government and that everything must be planned by a spatial plan, we must not give up because it is something that in fact violates the entire system in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to ask one other question. You're talking about strategic projects here, I'm interested in at this point in how many strategic projects are reported what's in the agency, which in the ministry we know at all what's going on in the country right now and what these investments are planned, which investments are reported for the simple reason that the experience we've had next. You can pass the best law in this world, it's just a matter of how much you apply it and the question is from that law goes how affirmative of investment, how much it actually allows investment because the way it's been so far it's actually from the agency was a guide who then led an individual investor, but I'm afraid that so far it hasn't been very well run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73594	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73595	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so far, since the implementation of the 2013 Strategic Investment Projects Act, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 17 projects have been declared strategic by 14 public investment projects, 3 are private. The overall implementation of all projects is ongoing, not yet completed either. The total value is just over 18.5 billion kuna and therefore, they realize, i.e., guarantee the opening of over 3000 new jobs, including indirect jobs related to such investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73596	Before we move on to the next line, I'd like to welcome the students of the mixed, industrial crafts school from Karlovac, welcome. ... Now it's time for a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinovic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73597	Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of State, Croatia needs every investment, any domestic, foreign, in this situation means economic stagnation, poor economic position, both the economy and the citizens. However, the question arises, is it good, a strategic project to define only at the level of investment? I also consider the party Change Croatia, thinks it is not good, it is superficial and wrong. Here, I'm going to set an example of the LNG terminal, on the Omistry that is going to be built, this floating terminal wants to be built, and this floating government actually doesn't know and won't give the public what it's about. Gentlemen, the project will cost about 600m euros, about 100m euros, the European Commission has secured, no one knows from where the additional 300m euros, so he doesn't know, it's non-transparent. On the other hand, we haven't seen fixed contracts with neighbouring countries, fixed orders on an annual basis, so who are we going to sell that gas to if there's a realisation of such a project? This is declared a strategic investment, and we understand that we must not depend on only one gas source, but we do not want not transparent projects, so if you are talking about strategic projects, then we need to know what Croatia is losing and what it is getting in that case. So, who will invest in Croatia in this environment of poor justice, a tax system that changes every year, too high interest in the unrealistic exchange rate, are all examples and therefore, variables that negatively influence attracting foreign investors. So I warn that this is the most difficult and wrong formulation of strategic investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73598	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73599	Your Honor, I would just like to point out that all projects are transparent. Therefore, the work of the commission is attended by the state bodies of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the units of local self-government and investor. So there's no intransparentity at all, everything is clear and visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73600	And the last replica, dear colleague Tomislav Jagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73601	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, to continue where you left off, I agree with transparency in the first place, but why is that not visible? We have agency sites, we have ministry stations, it's not very transparent and visible, which are all projects, which are strategic, with Croatian strategic investment projects. That's where we should work on it, I think we can do it. There are calls for those projects and units of local self-government, so I've seen that the Čajavica municipality, for example, has one project that's building, I think, the Peradian farms, which is good to see, to see where the gravity is and where it's going, in which direction it's going. And the other thing, when we talk about nectarines owned by the Republic of Croatia, there is one danger in Slavonia, I don't know, do you remember when Prime Minister Oreshkovic came out in the media with the announcement that a potential investor is looking for 10,000 hectares of the country in Slavonia. You know that caused a big public storm. If the Government prescribes or declares a strategic investment project, if the investment project needs land, could it happen that, despite what we have now voted here in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on the availability of agricultural land, that individual agricultural, OPGs remain without their own land, because it will be in collegiate with the future investment project, which the Government will declare as a strategic investment project. Can you answer at this point, is there such a danger? That's what our farmers need to know right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73602	Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73603	Thank you very much. The honourable representative, therefore, would reply, that is, to the question of this transparency. On our website are all information, all records from all specific committees and all information are publicly available, so anyone can look at what is decided, what is proposed and why. On the other hand, there is no danger of usurping any property or any local interest. Therefore, in each declaration the units of local self-government also participate, all stakeholders who are potentially and potentially involved and until there is no agreement, it does not follow the strategic list. And for that project you mentioned, I heard the same in the media, I just don't have any concrete knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73604	That's what we came to an end with the replicas. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Two Dobrović, Žagar. The first is the honorary colleague Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73605	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the motionor, Mr. Secretary of State Antonic, with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives. So we have the Strategic Investment Projects Act, which we heard we wanted to simplify further, a procedure with which investment projects would, therefore, go more easily from strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia or to remove the obstacles observed during this past period. In my presentation, I will focus on the criteria, or on one false interpretation and understanding of this law. So it's good in Art. 4. that strategic projects are strategic projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Well, of course they are, not that they're of interest, they're of crucial interest. And if we look at the article. 7. there are criteria that define what these are even strategic projects. And there, in the first paragraph, it stands quite thickened and piled up that these are the projects that create the conditions of greater i.e. Better employment, which contributes significantly to the development and improvement of the conditions and standards for the production of services products, which introduces and develops new technologies that increase competitiveness and economics in the economy or the public sector, which then raises the overall level of safety and quality of life of citizens and environmental protection, then which positively affects more economic activities and whose implementation creates added value in the area referred to in Article 3, lists all activities and contributes to sustainable development and protection of space, environment and culture. Finally, it is stated in this dense form that contributes significantly to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. However, at the end of that paragraph, the section ends and meets the following criteria. And in fact, all of these criteria, and it's already listed and mentioned so far that as the first criterion is consistent with the current spatial plans, even if it doesn't define at which level and then further matters exclusively, means the value of an investment that has been 150 million kuna so far, is now reduced to 75 million kuna. So it is obvious that all the criteria that arise in considering investment projects where individual investors are responding to a call for investors is that they are easier and faster to implement their investment, which is definitely always driven by some of their particular interests, which we put into one of these descriptions at the beginning of this article, and in principle is considered exclusively through the size of the investment. So the criteria we should consider strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia are indeed general and there is nothing that would define what is key for the Republic of Croatia, which are the development branches, which these activities here are simply all listed. So any project fits into that, and there is only a criterion of the size of the investment. And what's very bad is that there's one impression that this law solves the problem of strategic planning in the Republic of Croatia. So we don't have a development strategy or it's heard that it's necessary to do it, it's mentioned there at some general political level, but it's not done. There is no identification of projects at least one place, development potentials for the Republic of Croatia that would then facilitate these particular then individual projects that make up one large whole. We do not have a defined overall strategic development of the Republic of Croatia. So the size of the investment is a criterion and I personally when I joined that first government commission with the government for strategic investment, then I was amazed at the composition of these projects. It was dominated by tourist mega complexes, so large investments that have some of these qualities and forwards, but I'm not sure it's something that's strategic, which is very important in terms of hiring a local population worth some of our products, etc. However, two waste management centres also found themselves on the list. And now if we know that there is a Paris Agreement, if we know that there is commitment at the general level of European building of a sustainable society and that there is so-called. Circular management where waste must necessarily be seen as a source of raw materials, then we come to the conclusion that we have an absurdd that a strategic project has declared an object that actually distances Croatia from the realisation of these strategic objectives. Because if by any chance we had a strategy then we would know that 50 or 100 recycling centres with sorters and composts that are the only ones that can enable the conversion of waste into raw materials, then they would be strategic projects. And the size of these mixed municipal waste centers is actually a system failure measure. And it's absurd that such a centre is on the list of strategic projects, and then it's clear that the only criterion that exists here is the size of the investment and, of course, the skill to get on that strategic project list and that investors, on a shorter, simpler path, come to the realization of projects. That's not good. Otherwise, who can object to simplifying the procedure for what is considered strategic? No one really understands. However, the sad fact is that Croatia will remain on this, so it will pass this law and the matter is resolved as far as the strategy is concerned for the next few years. And I don't think that's how we're gonna make progress, so we're not gonna make this country a prosperous country where young people want to stay and work, but we're gonna go through this similar pattern. There are also certain remarks about transparency here, too, and it is really not easy to reach that list. There are also complaints from local communities, so self-government and certain public organisations, which should be able to obtain information about these projects without a problem and which can be made known and whose objection must be respected and discussed. So the reasoned dialogue at the table is necessary and it must be allowed. It must not happen that under the cover of strategic matter, they hide, speed up and that the procedure avoid steps of clear communication with locally interested communities, authorities of regional and local, and what locally organised or generally organised public, particularly professional. So here's what I suggest and I suggest that we all move away from thinking that this law is the one that solves the problem of strategic development and that we get all the strength to change it and move towards setting really strategic specifics on which we will then build these lists. I'll leave the rest of the exposure to my colleague, Sagar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73606	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here's colleague Dobrović left me just enough time to say what's important and about this law. Kola Dobrović has repeatedly stressed the importance of strategy and strategic thinking and development of the Republic of Croatia and then investment in the Republic of Croatia. However, I would put an emphasis here now in this section that I wanted to order, and regarding this law is of interest. Whenever there is an interest, we have here practically two conflicting interests, it is a private interest and public interest and the greater the cross-section of these two interests that will make the situation better for the Republic of Croatia. However, the Secretary of State pointed out well that since 2014, we have this law and this is an attempt to change what was not good, which in practice proved to be very bad. I've had the opportunity to be at the Competitiveness Agency on many occasions, and really there when I encounter problems on the ground, then you see how many things are unsaid and a lot of things are an obstacle to entrepreneurship and development, and there are few things that remove that obstacle. However, what I resent about the Ministry of Economy and in this law is that, counterpart Dobrović said well that certain strategic documents overlap, but here I think some laws overlap. We were in 2014 when the idea for this law was actually talked about even private property that could be obtained by a certain authority, the Law of Execution says so. But that's where they gave up. Now we have a situation here to talk about state property, property that is under the authority of the state, and that's why I mentioned it in replicas and agricultural land. And it's not exactly a joke when we talk today, and tomorrow we're going to have a debate on the OPG Act, we had a Law on Agricultural Land. Be careful if an investment is declared strategic and it needs a certain amount or number of hectares of land will not be very simple compared to existing farmers. Otherwise, the economy ministry should do laws to remove the barrier. And here I agree with my colleague Dobrovic, not important investment size, every investment must be welcomed in such a way as to remove barriers in front of it. The Ministry of Economy, by its definition, should also be in conflict with all ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Administration and push and demand that entrepreneurship can be realised, that this entry into the world of entrepreneurship and exit from it is easier, rather than simply introducing barriers that make business difficult. In that case, investment would find its own way. We are now in a situation that the state must intervene with this law and the question is how good it is when the state intervenes because it must always be to someone else's harm. I'm afraid it'll be at the expense of those who are weaker because if we look at this law from that perspective, and we can view it as a law stronger, then it's not good. Because I repeat, if someone breaks into the list, because it's funded by the funds of the eu funds or for other reasons, and it needs certain resources, then it's going to be in a more favourable position than that entrepreneur who doesn't have that kind of resources. Perhaps it is a delusion of this society that in the last ten years, perhaps even more about two things, reforms are constantly being talked about and talk about large investments that will boost the economy. And it's forgotten about craftsmen, small and medium entrepreneurship where the highest weight should be inserted. When I say that, not diminishing the importance of this law, but just so that the Ministry of Economy, along with this law, urgently goes with other legal proposals that are in its domain to help those who, in my opinion, encourage this society, are small and medium entrepreneurship. If we take the investment size criterion, you can have an investment of 100,000 euros, excuse me 100 million eras even, and you don't have a lot of jobs, not a lot of jobs, on the other hand you can have a far smaller investment that will open dozens of jobs. And that's what the proposer needs to take care of. Otherwise, as Slaven Dobrovic said nothing against this law, we only hope it will be more transparent that these lists will be seen more easily on the sides of the ministry and agency. I agree that decisions are being made public, but these lists should simply be a format in which the summary can be seen which projects are of strategic interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73607	Before we move on to replicas, I'd just like to welcome the members and members of the Varazdin County Fire Department. Welcome. We have seven replicas, four for a colleague, Dobrovic, three for a colleague, Sagar. The first is a colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73608	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Dobrović, is currently active among strategic investment problems of Liquided Natural Gas and LNG terminals. You are at the same time as the Minister of Environmental Protection in the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic on 27th. was 8.6.6. year, together with six other members of the MOST government, including Bozo Petrov, counterpart Panenic and other raised hands, i.e. you supported the floating LNG terminal. So I'm just wondering if you're the kind of scientist who's been doing environmental protection your whole life is possible that you couldn't have known what happened to a similar terminal in a similar sea, so the Adriatic Sea, on the Italian coast. Did you have any doubts at that time whether you should support it or have been brought by politics or brought by the pressure of the Croatian Democratic Community? These days we are listening from MOST especially from colleague Strenja Linic that MOST is against LNG terminals. So I ask you if you, or whether MOST, believe that policies should be created according to what the local population, municipalities, counties and we know that they are against what science says, according to what the public debate says, or whether policies should be formed according to day-to-day political tensions, pressures, or who knows what interests from who knows what parts of the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73609	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73610	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sincic, therefore it is true that we raised our hand for then changing the concept from land to floating base to two criteria. One is the speed of realization, and another is the problem of property-legal on land, i.e. on an island that is close by. The first thing LNG terminal, or terminal for ingested natural gas, is of strategic interest in my opinion. I'm ready to defend it, so we can meet up and I'll explain. So, although it's fossil fuel it's the most common fossil fuel and will basically play an important role in transition as some post... the company, therefore, especially in a stronger application in transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, when we come specifically to the realization of the floating terminal, I personally when I met a study that was a newer date I participated in the debate. And yesterday, the day before yesterday, I was on a roundtable that was organized. But specifically regarding the use of chlorine for regulation... So, by sea water on the exchange surfaces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a particular problem that I say through a reasoned debate can be sought and we have asked for it and I personally participated in it and I hope that, therefore, the study maker and the investor who will respect it will. Because there is a technical solution, so a technical solution that avoids the use of the sea, therefore for cooling i.e. heating of incinerated natural gas. So it's a strategic project. I agree. It should be realised, but without harmful environmental impact. [[Intruder President: Time fellow Dobrović.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73611	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73612	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Dobrović, you are a university professor and I fully agree with you that any strategic project first if it is to be realized it must and should be placed in one framework, means strategies to develop something. And so I ask the question do we have a strategy to address the shipbuilding problem? Do we have a strategy for the development of agriculture, do we have a strategy for the development of the energy sector? So does it make any sense to discuss a law like this, an environment when this is a non-conceptional state? Of course, I'm not happy that MOST supported the floating LNG terminal and that's how you confuse people. But regardless of what we're not getting into, we out of opposition, opposition parties have to make it clear to the government and to the council majority here that they missed what the whole ball would say. Not what they're building without clearly presenting things to us. I'm going back to the LNG terminal. Do you have any idea how much he costs for the project? How much money is secured? How many countries, so the neighbouring countries signed solid gas delivery contracts, and you know, since you're also an expert, do you know what specific environmental impacts are like? If we know, if you know all this, tell us, and if it doesn't make sense to even discuss a law that only values what a strategic investment is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73613	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73614	Thank you very much, dear colleague Lovrinović. So we get along fine with it. This law must never replace the strategy. So it's true we're in one non-conceptional state. So here, in fact, they're just reviewing particular projects, putting them on the list, and they're doing better. What the whole of it isn't, it's not considered. Let's get back to LNG now. Therefore, LNG is either LNG or LNG, or LNG is of strategic interest in my opinion. He can give a boost to our shipbuilding, because in a few years we'll have a blue Mediterranean, so blue Adriatic. So, maritime transport has to be fully redefined, used purest fuel, so... So the whole development of this wrong technique, the technology in the shipyard is something where we could go forward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat the LNG project yes, floating was selected according to the speed and problem criteria on land. If there is any other knowledge, they should be considered immediately. However, floating can be performed without harmful influence. The main adverse effect is the use of chlorine in marine water that hides evaporators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73615	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73616	Dear fellow Dobrović, I cannot agree with you when you said that this law is not the one that will enable strategic projects. Croatian laws are not necessarily bad laws, we know it well in the field that we do, and each way struggles to increase every investment in its own city, every one of them in its own area. But what I'm going to agree with you is your statement here from word to word, I wrote it down. We will not make this country a prosperous country and remain the country from which young people leave. I could only agree with that for a reason, exactly what we're talking about today and this LNG terminal. We don't want the hydrocentrale, we don't want the people protesting, we don't want the LNG terminal, first while they're in power we want to float when we're not in power we want land, we don't want chimneys, we don't want nothing. So where will your young ones work? Why don't you take a walk in the Omistry at night and find out how many cafes are open so you can even have a cup of coffee somewhere? Not just Omisalj, but Crikvenica, or any kind. I remember the day of my youth when there were dozens of chimneys in the river, but tens of thousands of workers in that river were working somewhere. Where will young people work? And our laws are not necessarily bad, it's something else that's a great bureaucracy and paranoia that's just been created in those who have to make a decision because in Croatia everyone's afraid to make a decision is always calling someone out, finding some sort of flaw irrational. And on the LNG issue, if I trust anyone, I don't trust those who were paid to do some kind of study because they were paid for it. I trust the people I know well who live in my environment with who I've talked to a lot about these ships and these technologies and all of them, from the captains of the ships, from sailors on such ships, speak a very different picture. And among other things, you could also see reactions in the media of such people who do it around the world, across Europe and across the continent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73617	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73618	Thank you very much. So it would be the strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia that would respect the individual advantages of the Republic of Croatia which, of course, were regional character on the basis of which development projections would be built and then encourage investment and seek investors for these predefined development routes. You're talking about LNG, so I'm just saying that wherever there's a dispute he's moving out of the media space which is always chaotic and where there's a lot of noise in the table space where you talk to arguments. I think that's the way we can handle the recommendations, see what's really going on here, not the problem, and what's the solution. So the size of the problem detection, the definition of the problem and the way to implement it for one general benefit. You're talking about chimneys, so the chimneys don't necessarily mean prosperity. Today we have a transition to something else in technology into manufacturing processes that have significantly less chimneys, so the zero... systems are something we're looking for. I will now return to these famous waste management centers, so I will be a supporter of the center that is very expensive, large, megalomanic where only generates a new cost, a billion kuna for citizens at year level, and not accept a concept of development where through small centres, this waste will be converted into raw materials, with a great social effort for all of them, it is a sign of a bad approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73619	Thank you. Let's go to replica number four, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73620	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Dobrović. And you said the extent to which it is important to include local self-government units in each decision, and so said the Secretary of State that all strategic projects are included and representatives of local self-government units, which is unfortunately not true. Here I am going to mention LNG again, and I'm glad that today is a chance to say something more here about citizens looking at it and seeing who really respects what citizens in some area want. So it's all the opposite. The head of the Municipality of Omisalj sent dozens of letters to various public authorities of the Republic of Croatia who can participate in the decision-making of the LNG terminal and received no reply. At the same time, all the letters she sent to the European Commission received all the answers. So I have to say again for the people who are watching this, so Omisalj, Krk, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County is not against the LNG terminal, but it advocates a land LNG terminal because it was decided in 2015 and then it is said that by building the LNG Land Terminal, more than 400 people from the construction operation will increase the GDP by 0.5%, and by floating it is now inserted as a coward's egg. And what I am asking you is, how can we explain to our citizens that we are making decisions that are in the interest of citizens when this law in Article 7 clearly states that no strategic priority and project can be declared strategic if it is not in line with the spatial plan and the spatial plan of the Municipality of Omisalj says the land terminal. So it goes against this law and that's why it's already announcing a new law, the LNG law. So it's the acting of both the Constitution and the Charter of Local Self-Government and Decisions of the Municipality of Omisalj, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the wishes of the citizens who live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73621	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73622	Thank you very much. Look, I was just the day before yesterday in the Omisalj Municipality, and I agreed to take part in a round table dealing with the subject, so these are damages to the use of chlorine in the LNG terminal. And so I showed that I should go, repeat, talk, argument, so communication. Lack of communication, not responding to correspondence, it's absolutely unacceptable. I believe that this problem will not be solved properly without involving all interested parties. The LNG terminal has great potential and certainly at some stages its capacity could grow. What is very important is that it also has strong potential in terms of added value or synergy effect when it connects to production cycles or thermal installations, where its by-product, or its load, which is a large cost energy, can be coupled with the object that needs to cool down and thus achieves great synergy effects, therefore, it is something to wish for in fact, when the ETA, the thermo-energy block, for example, can be significantly raised. And I miss that, too, in considering this whole system. Of course, speed is important, because of macroeconomic relations, strategic positions, taking up therefore, on the European energy map, it is necessary and can be considered and found one solution, so that Croatia becomes a hub for... natural gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73623	We are now going to the replicas of our respected colleague, Sagaru, first of all fellow Milosevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73624	... One correction, and a colleague, Sagar, you said the Ministry of Economy was supposed to be in some conflict with other ministries. [[Specially enabled.]] I don't think that there should be any conflict, no ministry with anyone in the administration, I think not only the Ministry of Economy, but all ministries, the entire administration, the local administration, should understand that they must work for the benefit of the private sector, entrepreneurs, medium, small craftsmen, large entrepreneurs, because only through the growth of businesses in this country will we keep young people, increase economic growth and have money for everything that is necessary and necessary the same. What I'm sure is that everyone here in this assembly regardless... We want differences for our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73625	You didn't log in. Yes, I'm sorry, then, please. [[I did.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73626	So, a very short answer, thank you fellow Milosevic, for giving me the opportunity, when I say in conflict, here, I will give a concrete example, when the finance minister says, we will raise the tax, then the economy ministry should say, can't do it anymore, there's no more burden. In that sense, I was going to say, the Ministry of Economy, the sea, that's where we agree, so without entrepreneurship, we won't go forward. We can talk about what's right, but we don't need anything, and then how do we get ahead? That's why I think everyone has to participate actively, Ministry, we have to have a whole government, but in this country things are going to change, when we hear the Secretary of State's position, when we hear the minister's position when he says, that's not how it's going to go down. You can't do that because you can't develop entrepreneurship if you raise taxes. How are you going to, how will people invest in I don't know, build apartments or houses if you're going to put real estate taxes on them? These are some things that a college should be about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73627	Second replica, respected colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73628	Dear colleague Sagar, well, I'll just, I'll just, you're a very practical man and you want the same as all of us, that some things happen faster. What would be more a replica, in fact, to the findings of fellow Dobrovic, and it is about waste management centres. For example, the city, i.e. Zadar County, along with Lika Senjska, has been since 2006. is the process of creating documentation for the centre and since the actual environmental impact study began, since 2006 now that we have all over, therefore, when the closure of the financial structure of 377 million kunas of grants from competitiveness and cohesion and the share of the local community of 10% and the fund of 73 million kuna, therefore around 19% still does not have the possibility to do so. Because there are a number of problems that have been happening in the course of competitions, not to mention in the preparation of projects itself. So, what am I saying? That these centres should be priorities for all of us, for all of the cities, because compared to the strategies that have been happening all the time, changing, redecorating, etc. As the minister came, we did nothing in particular, except say the city of Pula that did it in Kastion. And the fact is that here is the town of Split still has the problem of Karepovac and we haven't moved since the beginning. So I would like it to happen much faster and much better regardless of some problems, because the fact that waste is something that we all have to think about very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73629	Thank you. Now let's go to the last line, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73630	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zagar, you are talking about Croatia should have as much investment as possible, however, the question is what are investments? We see that in Croatia investments are called sale of own companies. We also see that the robbery of citizens is called the cost of transition. These are nice names for something our economy and the state are making up for. I would like to ask you a specific question, can Croatia have GDP growth, such as Slovenians who currently have 6% or Romanians 7% without having their own companies? Can we achieve such GDP growth if everything is in foreign hands. If INA is in foreign hands, if it is in foreign hands, I do not know Končar, if in foreign hands is a telecommunications network and many other companies that were once a pillar of the Croatian economy. Why don't we invest in our own people, why don't we invest in our own work? Why don't we invest in our resources? Why not invest in our own infrastructure, which may be even more advanced in some things compared to other European countries? I'm afraid that with this strategic investment law, we're actually still working on it, that we're dissipating ourselves, our assets, and in fact we can expect further growth of unemployment, further work of borrowing, and everything else is just a beautiful form without content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73631	Replication response, Representative Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73632	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed colleague of Bunjac, therefore, can agree with you in many things in your replica, and truth, your replica is quite broadly set and what I find extremely important, and it seems to me, and in his presentation, he said that it is important to observe investment from the point of view of the benefit of public interest. Private interest, he has one actual dimension, and it's acquiring gain, of course fertilising capital and we can't go far there. However, the reported interest is something that we must and must be taken care of by the ministry, the whole society must take care of it starting from local self-government to state. And we have the biggest problem, in fact, with corruption, clientelism, nepotism. We have a number of entrepreneurs who are successful and this should be clearly said here are successful only because they are doing business with the state, doing business with cities and municipalities. It's the wound of this country and the economy as a whole. As they say, justice should be blind, so competitions should be blind. Jobs should be given to people who know and who have ideas, who have capacities, who have ultimately well-paid workers. Here we have a case in our county, in my county, I don't know, it's probably up to you, making a new school, making a new gym, in a month she leaks because someone took the money in their own pocket, public money, and that's the problem. And when we solve these problems and all we can solve is that institutions, again I say that political phrase "institutions do their job", but someone has to oversee them. And with you, I agree, it's not the country's bad lord, it's the bad lords of the people that the state puts in those places exclusively because of some political interest or synergy and these are the problems of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73633	Thank you. The next club of MPs who reported for participation in the debate is the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, on their behalf will speak Agent Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73634	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. The current law, which was passed in 2013, as you yourself have said so far, has been amended twice since 2014 and 2016, and since its application to date, 36 projects have been included on the list of strategic investments. Today there is a new law ahead of us and our club is a position that we must be ready to look the truth into the eyes and ask ourselves whether the new law will really achieve faster preparations for the implementation of strategic projects. I believe that we are aware that the investment climate and general conditions of business in the Republic of Croatia have already been out of need and satisfactory for many years, which is also confirmed by relevant international institutions such as the World Bank in the Doing Business report. There are more causes of such a condition, I'll only mention it. The problem is that our land-book catastrus system dates back to the time of Austro-Hungarian, at the time it was certainly a modern system, but after 150 years, we will all agree that it is no longer adequate. Furthermore, the problem we face during preparatory projects is also an undefined border of maritime goods, one of the problems is related to the activities of the Croatian forests and the forest-economic base. In fact, there are cases that some particles in a completely non-transparent way are literally included overnight in forest land, which again leads to unnecessary court disputes and again slows down investment activities. Speaking of disputes, I would like to say that because of the lack of clarity and in practice of difficult law enforcement, there are numerous unnecessary and expensive court disputes between the state and the units of local self-government, which, unfortunately, also slows down investment activities. We had the opportunity to mention the problem in a good part of solving the Law on State Property but as we had the opportunity to see and read in the first reading, this law that was to be solved, he unfortunately did not solve it. So, there are a number of reasons that hinder investment in Croatia and which the state must solve and recognise, and with the best wishes of the promoters, but as long as our regulations are unclear, difficult to implement, until we settle and coordinate the catastrian, land-book system, while our administration is slow and ineffective, until some institutions stop acting as a state in the country, until the state level accepts municipalities, cities and counties as partners, we will not have a basic prerequisite for conducting strategic investments. And finally, I want to say that the new law will not achieve faster preparations for the implementation of strategic projects but can only be achieved in a regular and efficient system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73635	Thank you. Representative Željko Glasnović reported for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73636	Dear fellow, here's a question not addressed to you but to the gentlemen sitting downstairs, I think in 2013 the draft, act or procedure for the investor on the website of everyone, by the ministry, is published for every praise. ... It's clear, it's clear, there's no problem here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And speaking of investments here, you mentioned a cadastre, so why won't anyone invest in a country where 5% of the land books are arranged? What's the consequence? Of what? Why won't people come here? That act looks remarkable there when you read it, but where are these foreign investments? I've mentioned this Toyota factory that was supposed to be in Lika five times here, now it's in Czech Republic, what are strategic investments? Now this group of last, tourist agency this, that's the first thing I know, 16 million euros has been won for hotels, that group is private, that's the first thing it's got for private investment in Croatia, one bigger investment. You have 126m euros at the same time, five thousand small businesses in the Baltic republics. What are we bragging about? And he'll come back to what I said in the morning, who'll come to the country where there's a legal yawn. Where is this synergy between the ministries? Well, people come in here, there's no synergy at all, they're working in a werewolf, they're saying this, these other ones. We've got the papers again, we've got the papers, we've got the most amazing thing in theory, but in practice nothing. How long will that take? Here, if we don't settle some legal questions here, what can we expect? Tell me what strategic investments are in Croatia since 2000, which are strategic investments, I would like to know except for IKEA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73637	The answer to the replica, Representative Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73638	Here I will look back on one detail mentioned by my colleague Glasovic, which is inconsistency and inconsistency among the ministries, which is true. That is what we need to point to, to be warned, to believe that those who need to hear it and want to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73639	The next representative to report for the replica is representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73640	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sponzo, you spoke among other things about those arranged land books and monasteries. We know where the land books and cathedrals are under the courts, so we're talking about judicial reform, that is, judicial reform. The refoma of the judiciary is contitiated by the son of qua non survival of this country. So if we don't reorganize not only land books and catastras, but of course the state's attorney's office, courts, etc., this country doesn't even have a theoretical chance of ever getting better, we're just going to keep spinning around in circles. So I'm asking you to comment on a very interesting piece of information that the president of the HDZ club now, Mr Branko Bačić, said that Croatia, that it should invest 5 billion kunas to settle all land books in Croatia and that because these books were not arranged for me every year, lost 5 billion kuna. Now, if I recall, that's what Mr. Bacic said here at the pay phone in one debate, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73641	The answer to the replica, Representative Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73642	It's not my idea to comment on a colleague named Bacic, he'll do it himself. I would say this, in addition to changing the laws in the first order, that we must begin to change ourselves, that in our discussions we should contribute both to understanding the problem and to solving the problem. That it is desirable that we deal less with policy issues, to demonstrate our willingness to be responsible for behaviour, certain discussions in the context of certain legislative proposals and solutions. But definitely until we solve the cadastre, we will not solve the land books, we will not solve the marine goods cadastre until some state institutions stop acting like a state in the country, until we begin to question their responsibility, until we begin to question their efficiency, until we start talking about Croatia pulling too far, too little funds from the EU funds, we will not make any concrete step forward. So I'll go back to what I said. This law won't change anything, I recognize the intensity of the motionors, but we need a whole new, orderly and efficient system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73643	Thank you. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" representatives' club reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73644	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs and everyone who follows this through the media, I took this speech on behalf of the club to comment on this law. So we have the Final Proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the strategy Croatia has been through quite unfortunately there. As the best example, I like to talk about the Energy Strategy adopted in 2009, to be valid since 2020. I was saying, there's not a month of the same detail behind this pay phone. So that document is a complete failure. Mr. Secretary of State who sat here couldn't take the impression that he was getting along with me. The whole strategy is based on several power plants that will never be built, e.g. Ombla or Drava power plant or nuclear power plant which is the basis of that strategy. So everything falls into the water. And it's still a current strategy, and according to that strategy, we should work, think and develop energy. This is, of course, impossible and therefore a new strategy should be adopted regarding energy and all other things. I would also remember the situation when, for the withdrawal of money from EU funds, Croatia defined the biotechnology area as a priority area. OK, and Europe secures money for the biotechnology area, and what we do when we apply to the funds completely ignore that area, we're going to report to agriculture. And then of course we can't withdraw the money. Therefore, strategic documents, a number of strategic documents are completely missed by Croatian reality, and I fear that will be the fate of this law that speaks of them. I would also like to look back on the current situation, the current strategic project these days, it is certainly the Liquided Natural Terminal, i.e. LNG Terminal in Omislim. It's been talking about LNG Terminal for a long time. It's almost always a land terminal. The land terminal is a completely different story from the floating terminal. The project we're talking about today has two stages. The first stage would be a floating terminal, the second stage would be a land term. The project is quite controversial, I have called it an economic disaster, a technological and technical disaster and an ecological disaster at the stop behind this speaker. Let's split up two things, first idea, idea to go make LNG, second project, let's do project documentation to justify this project, to present it to the public, and to end up according to this project that needs to be in line with some strategy we're doing. I'd remember here Vrdoljakov's kitchen in 2014, 2015, exploiting the Adriatic. The idea is to say yes and no, although not for us from the Living Wall anymore, but project documentation presented to the Croatian public, which is given to a public debate full of holes. It has a mass of incorrect information, like the number of earthquakes. It's been four years now, I don't remember all the details, let's say the number of earthquakes. They weren't taken into account at the bottom of the Adriatic location where NATO dropped the bombs, you can't drill down a submarine if it's a bomb warehouse. A series of scientific institutions said there was a series of incorrect scientific data, that they weren't taken into account migration, I don't know, fish, birds. If I recall, it was the Oceanographic Institute and several other such sets of associations, the entire Croatian public was against the project. The documentation that tried to explain this idea and elaborated was disastrous. More bettrics than scientific facts, more spin and marketing than science, 1000, mass pages. It's always a mass page to kill you in the notion that you don't even read, that in the beginning you're discouraged that it's an eternal truth that shouldn't be asked. However, they failed then, neither will they succeed now with the LNG terminal. And this project also has 1200 pages. The president of the LNG of Croatia, Mr. Francic, when I think he was 17 November last year, explained his study in Omislje, he left ashamed. He could not provide answers to some basic questions that this study manages. He couldn't give specific numbers, he couldn't give concrete scenarios. The descriptions used inside are the same closer to bettrists than science. It's a similar thing. Is that the Vrdoljak's kitchen, too? I think that this coalition, the LNG coalition, is one of the most powerful reasons why this over-emphasis, is corrupting, why we are in the situation we are in. Let us remember the meetings of our President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović and Mr Trump. What was that about? About the LNG terminal. Do you think Mr Trump knows on the map where Croatia is? Probably because his wife is from Slovenia. However, does he have time to deal with Croatia? No, I don't. Maybe Croatia knows something, a few points that matter, the LNG terminal is important. So, it's already a roasted job, it's an arranged job, it's strong, I'd say, the axle forces agreed, not to say conspiracies, to go counter-constitutional with that project. LNG terminal floating is not plotted in spatial plans or the municipality of Omisalj with its settlements Omisalj and Njivice, nor the Primorje-Gorski County. They don't care. What do they mean by papers? The Force of God doesn't beg, does it? Furthermore, the technologies presented there are harmful to the environment. In the same Adriatic, 100km away on the Italian coast near Montefalcone, similar to the floating LNG terminal, similar technology, this technology was done somewhere in 2014. She said not then to the floating LNG terminal and that technology, that it would be reinstalled again. And we have a scenario that can happen. Varikina, chlorine will go to the bottom of the closed Kvarner Bay and simply clean up, destroy life on that submersible, appear on the surface of the foam and everything else that happens. In addition to environmental predispositions, there are, of course, economic ones. If we have a plan, we don't really know what the project is. It says 5-8, somewhere 7, even listen to a number of experts, and they don't know exactly what it is or what it's like, like 5-7. Okay, 5-7, 8. Okay. And now the plan is, we're going to introduce into one point in the space of 8 billion cubic metres per year, and we're going to get out of that point 2-2.5 billion by the pipeline because that's the capacity of the pipeline per year. Okay. And where's the rest? What about the rest? Are we going to store it? Are we going to spend it at the location? It was once the idea to build a thermal power plant there so that gas is immediately burned, electricity is produced along the way, that heat generated can be used to heat this incinerated gas to turn it into liquid again. Once upon a time while Dina was working, it was like a process. Dina as a petrochemical in his work is an exotherman process. It creates heat, and that heat would be used to heat up that cooled gas. And that was one situation that would significantly improve the profitability of the whole project. But Deane's gone today. Another thing, even if we can get all that gas somewhere, where are we gonna go with him? Our main warehouse around the Great Ludina, about 500 million cubic metres can be prepared. We don't have a place to store it because we haven't built or planned more capacity. Here, I've only read up the Plinacro development strategy, I haven't found where that gas would store for me. So we're not gonna store it, spend it, we don't have anywhere to go, then we're gonna sell it somewhere, take it out. Yeah, that was the plan. Minister Dalic recently signed a memorandum of co-operation with Mr Hernandy in Budapest. The pipeline is built from Slobornica to Hungary some 300km long. Transport prices have been reduced from 7 euros per megawatt hour to 1 euro per megawatt hour and gas from LNG to Hungary is now being created. But why would anyone buy 30-50% more expensive gas? No, you wouldn't. It's very simple. The story of the Lithuanians will repeat... which was built by 4 billion cubic meters, so that today you would work on one billion cubic meters and actually work with a loss. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one will collect gas, neither Lithuania, nor their neighbours Poland, Estonia, that part of Russia around Kaliningrad, Finland, etc. No one needs that, and it's just an economic disaster. And on all these questions, we didn't get too many answers. Here, I'm no gas expert, let's be explained, let's be given concrete and clear numbers. No, I don't. Why would you argue on a scientific basis, analytically, when you can spin and violence? Trump said there'd be a terminal and it'd be a terminal. It's democracy, it's listening to the will of citizens. The inhabitants of Omisi Primorje-Gorski County do not want a floating LNG terminal. Is anyone interested in the government of the Republic of Croatia? Minister Dalic? Minister Coric? Is it gonna happen again, Cetina? What happened to Cetina? Same thing. Quasi-scientist. It's a crazy idea first and then it's a crazy project. The scientists buried him again, Vrdoljak's kitchen, gas again. Please, it's going to happen again, Cetina, and here. So why was it Cetina? Because there's nowhere to go with the gas, so let's burn it somewhere on Cetina so we have someone to sell it to... Is that a serious policy? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that a serious government? Of course not, and you won't be able to do this, gentlemen. You will have to offer to the Croatian public who is increasingly intelligent and is increasingly critical of thinking, although you are poisoning her through Croatian broadcasting. You'll have to offer them scripts. It's a clear cost benefit analysis and everything. No more spins. That time has passed forever. You didn't learn on the Adriatic, did you not learn on Cetina? Well, I guess you'll learn on LNG, LNG terminal. Mr. Francic came from MOL, he worked there before. He's tied up with Mr. Drinker from Petrokemia. How did they get in a good position? It is most likely a scenario, because since Croatia will obviously lose, someone will make a profit. Who's gonna make the MOL? Because the gas in Croatia does not have Croatia, there is MOL, there is MOL. Most likely then, the cheap Croatian gas from domestic sources will go to the Hungarians, and we will buy this rally from LNG. The price of gas will rise, the price of the profession will rise. What do they care? They won't be responsible for that. Therefore, the energy strategy, this documentation, the public debate, is underestimating as if we were some kind of tree that monologue can tell that it all goes without criticism or anything like that. What is still to be mentioned when it comes to strategic matters in the Republic of Croatia is certainly Croatian shipbuilding. Unfortunately, the disaster is at hand, we talked about it in breaks. I personally went to Uljannik, third of May for a call from workers, co-operatives who hadn't been paid for months, didn't pay for their money. For eight months, the government has allowed everything to go well. Now Fatty on the cover of Evening says "If the government doesn't give us guarantees, we won't be working ships anymore." And as if he's been working ships so far. How many do you need to make? 10, 15, he didn't make any for Venice. Okay. At least something. And did he honor the contract he signed.../The speaker doesn't understand...? It's not. It's not. May 3rd and today, there was talk here about it at the break being in serious trouble, it can't continue to work. It will end up where many others have ended up in bankruptcy and cutting ground if the government doesn't do something important. It's all Secretary Dalic's portfolio. We don't have strategies, we don't have funds. We don't have our own banks so we can lend our own policies to our banks, our own strategies. We don't have that. We depend on the mercy of private interests, the mercy of Europe. This is not how serious policies are conducted. In this way Croatia will not come anywhere like it has not come very far since the 1990s. The projections for the future aren't great. I'm just sorry to hear that, so remember all those older people from the shipyard. Well, they may have downed a hundred ships. So these companies can be profitable. Let's just so I can't be profitable, let's not be okay. I can't be profitable, so let's turn them off, it doesn't pay to work anymore, let's do something else. But they can be profitable, they need help until they're profitable. No, Europe says no, we'll work in China. We don't need that. And Mr. Plenkovic, normally, deeply inclined to Mrs. Merkel, Brussels, Berlin, Buzin, your wish is my command, so as he goes, he goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73645	Thank you, Agent Sincic. Representative Željko Glasnović reported for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73646	Dear Mr. Sincic, Mr. Sincic, I've listened very carefully to you here and I agree with some of your exposure parts. We're starting here from this strategic investment law at the LNG terminal. This isn't a debate about the LNG terminal, but I'd just say one thing, you know, maybe you don't know that it's Montenegro's oil company, the state's already moved the border to its advantage because they found huge quantities there in Boki Kotorska, they're already going with it. We're standing in place. Here. Who are we going to take the money from? From who? From Mars. I do not love, I do not love the European Union. What's our reality? The European Fund for Strategic Investments has 16 billion euros. Where will this Croatian money come from, from which we will receive the money. It's a question of one. Second question. Why won't anyone invest here? Here's when we deal with the root problems, not the consequences. Dear Mr. Sincic, I've never heard from your party one strange word of lustration, academic and humane. And it's a nonstop evasive. Why? It's pure analysis and truth. Why? Because we inherited the same legal system from the former state. You are guided by the same personnel led by the state, the same personnel lead you by the state and their successors. And I'm going back to the mental set. You're estimating the situation. Where are the solutions? Here's when, when I talk about the ecologicality of what's up with Bakra, Blackie, Sibenik, waste from the Sibenik Bridge down there, old. The most beautiful bays in the Adriatic Sea are polluted by the former gray economy system, which was completely outside, the second generation. No one's talking about it. It's the Bay of Kastelan. Who then protested when the grey rain was raining in Solin for that concrete store there, the cement store in Kaštel. ... when you were talking about China, China and the ecocid that China is globally producing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] China is an ecocid. Now it's the Peles Bridge of China. It's the biggest genocide on the global level of China. That's not what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73647	Thank you. Replica response, Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73648	Thank you, colleague Glasnović. I can agree with you that China is a country of environmental disasters, but I wouldn't go further on China now. As for the lustration of who was speaking in 2014 in the campaign on the lustration of corrupt personnel, I did not hear it from Mr. Josipovic, nor from Mr. Kujundzic, who then swore against HDZ to be their minister today. They're all bastards, unworthy, and they cheat on the people year after year. I ask you to write the Lustration Act, let us read it, we will probably support it. I am for lustration must have been changed generations and all those who have collaborated with the former regime against the current society and the state, and especially those who are agents, corruption in the current state, should simply be lustrated. He'd just look back at the fact that it's the '90s. Mr. Shakespeare installed some 2,000 of his people in the judiciary, more like it, and that's why we have a non-functional judiciary today, we have no judiciary, but we have a shex-judgment, which, on its very elements, is a mistrial and a theft.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73649	Representative Ivan Lovirović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic, I have one question for you, actually 2 questions, first of all, do you think that strategic projects in Croatia can be designed structures that have sold out the most valuable Croatian resources from banks, telecoms, tourist companies and what really was the most valuable thing in strategic actions? I like that you just said that we need a generation shift, we need new people in politics. Because what has so far been of 30 billion euros, total foreign investment from Croatia's draft so far, we have seen that we have not benefited much from it. I'm asking a concrete question about LNG because it was declared a strategic interest. It's a strategic interest, but if it's done in a non-transparent way, if we don't know what we're losing, if we don't know what we're losing, if we don't know the environmental impact study, can it be called a strategic project, or how you're assessing that approach, if we don't know the most important things about this. And secondly, everyone forgot the Immunological Institute, you were the chairman of the Immunological Institute Investigation Commission, and I was a member of that committee, and we spent a lot of time on that. You see, it can't be on the agenda, it hasn't come up yet. If this is a strategic project, investment, and I certainly think of the party Change Croatia, as well as the Living Wall that it is a strategic investment, i.e., a project, why is the Government silent about it? Do you think this government is working, that it knows what Croatia's strategic interest is and determines other people's strategic interests, e.g. LNG and Immunological Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73651	Replica response, Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73652	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lovrinović, you've looked back on the good stuff. As for strategic projects, here I have the opportunity to talk to farmers quite often, especially lately when we have the Agricultural Land Act, which is not good enough, which suits big ones. A small company can't be a small farmer. In Croatia, we have 95% of farmers, according to the Agricultural Activity Act. But we're doing a law that goes against most of these people, and those people are complaining to us then. Here, we'd like to run, but there's no bank that'll give you credit. Where's your HDZ farm bank, where's the agro bank you've been talking about so much? People have to have their own money to raise money from the funds first. I can't win, because we don't have our own banks that would fund our policy and finance our people, especially those small entrepreneurs, farmers and OPGs. As for the documentation, that I spoke clearly on several examples, Cetina, before the company Adria, so now also the expansion of the Adriatic, LNG, means where is science in Croatia? Where's science? In those studies, of 1,000 p.m. incorrect information, betrists, spins and marketing, these are their methods. Give us scientific facts. Please, as far as the Immunological Institute is concerned, I'm running out of time, 400 million euros, maybe more, it's going to cost this LNG project, let's multiply it by 7, about 3 billion kuna, right? We have 3 billion kuna for the LNG terminal, to have a polluted environment, more expensive gas and everything else going on, and we don't have 100 million kuna for the Immunological Institute. And you don't even have to give that 100 million kuna, the Immunological Institute, which is in our report has real estate in the centre of Zagreb, 100-150 million kuna, according to an estimate of several years ago. Well, that should be his initial capital, but no. Besides, there's money in the funds, because it was technology, and we said technology was our priority. Pull the money out of the funds, and you're in no condition to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73653	Thank you. Agent Kirin, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73654	Dear Representative Sincic, a few tiny little observations and then. And clear questions and your clear answer to that. The LNG terminal about him was being discussed in the '90s. G. The fact is there is a series of studies on the ecological harmfulness of the floating terminal, but how will the technological process endanger the ecological biological system of the sea, the reduction of sea temperature? Tell me how much temperature will have to be lower and how much is that gonna hurt? Because the sea temperature is 25-26 degrees in summer, and in winter around 10 degrees. Do these 10 degrees end or end life in the sea? Tell me, have you been informed about this? What is this reflection of LNG terminals on the economy, standard? How much is the LNG terminal multiplication index, what is the impact on accompanying economic activity? The Rijeka economy is destroyed, citizens are moving out. Why? Because there's no existence. How much sea has been polluted during the strong economic activity in Rijeka? So for the sake of existence, citizens came to Rijeka and PGZ County, would the terminal do more harm to the sea than to closed factories? Is it necessary to close May 3rd because it also pollutes the sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73655	Replica response, Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73656	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's where the attack is going, that we're radical environmentalists. Absolutely not. I was in 2015 when the pre-election campaign supported the land LNG terminal and today I am ready to discuss it on a scientific basis. But as far as the floating terminal is concerned, there's a debate in progress, it's a new idea after that, and we're absolutely against it. You asked me how low the sea temperature would be? I don't know. Neither could your Mr. Francic explain it too much. So we don't know. We want scientific data so we can figure out what to do with it. And what do we know? We know what was in Monte... the cold chlorine went to the bottom, darkened everything alive, the foam appeared on the surface, and today we have huge problems. You asked me about economic benefits, here's the talk of a large number of employees, that people will be hired, that people from Omis will also get a job, but that's not true. All a few people from Omis would be employed in a floating LNG terminal, and people who will operate on their own FSR will not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia or perhaps just a few. It will be professionals working on FS machines around the world because we Croats as a maritime nation many capable sailors working on FS machines around the world. They may come, but they are not registered here or will work for the Croatian company. He'll work there for some company on... It will not remain in the Republic of Croatia, but the spins Mr. Francic tried to place as accurate. They're not right. You were talking about May 3rd, so who just advocated the situation here on May 3rd, who went to the shipyard on May 3rd and found people or people called us... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73657	Thank you. Representative Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73658	Dear colleague Sincic, as always, I listen very carefully to your discussions and I can tell you that I really like you and that you elaborate nicely with the number of data, indicators, and I don't know what it's all about. But now you're confusing me, I don't know who to trust. To you who have said that the Kvarner Bay will be chlorinated or the Primorje-Gorski Kodina County, here I read his statement, Zlatko Komadina, welcomed the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Government's decision to support the Plinacro company project to build a floating LNG terminal whose value has been estimated at 50m euros. The government has made good access to this project in terms of identifying the location and seeking a decision on the realisation by a possible investor. The floating terminal is not incompatible with a large LNG terminal, its advantage is that it is cheaper, it is realised faster, and once it performs its function it can switch to a new location etc., etc. That's what Mr. Mayor Zlatko Komadin said, I've read it to you now, and I can't say it's not a profession because he was also the director of the Energo Company that just delivered in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County in the city of Rijeka Gas, so he knows what it's about. And among other things, your debate when you mentioned those Second World bombs I don't know what war so you don't know if it'll be able to drill in there or not, it reminded me of a local assembly when we started to connect our business zone with Pula-Karlovac's master gas pipeline when one of the statements and the biggest noisers that were at that point was that there was a possibility that someone would put a bomb under the gas line and activate after 10 years and the entire village would blow up. Fortunately, we were there hard and determined so we built it, now that gas is used by over 200 companies and over 4,000 people, and it's only been 10 years since it was built. If we go this way and the Priory that something is negative, that something is wrong, that something is polluting we simply force our people to leave because we simply don't create them the possibilities of existence, we don't create opportunities for them to even think about staying here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73659	Thank you. Replication response by Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73660	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad the mayor gave that attitude, that he contributed to this debate. I personally consider it based on the numerous information that I have had with my colleagues, but before, with consultants of people who have worked both in Dina and Plinacro and elsewhere, it has come to the realization that this bay will be chlorinated and our position is negative. If someone convinces me otherwise, maybe you, I can change my attitude. We're not a prior against anything. I said what I thought of the land terminal. Therefore, please do not place such a burden. You were talking about World War II bombs, bombs are actually more from intervention in Kosovo, Kosovo crisis, intervention in Bosnia. NATO has these tickets in which zones he deposited those bombs. You know the plane can't return to the aircraft carriers except to disarm itself, I didn't say there was going to be an explosion but that we had to attach a map of where those bombs are so we knew we were going to reduce the risk. That wasn't the documentation of Vrdoljak's kitchen. Here I would like to know you may not have to agree with my opinion, but what does the people of the Primorje-Gorski County, your county, say the people of Omishi? They made it clear last week what they think, if science can convince them otherwise well. Our goal is to get to the truth, if the truth is different, we will accept it. I have no reason to believe that this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73661	Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73662	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic. We have heard little from you about this Law on Strategic Investment Projects, I'm only afraid that this debate or your debate to be more precise is not very helpful in attracting investment and retaining Croatian entrepreneurs to carry out their activities in Croatia, but now on the side. I'd like to hear what you're for, what energy project the Living Wall is for. I believe we will agree, however, that we cannot return the Croats to the caves and harvest fruit in pastures and forests. So we have to do something together. That's one thing, but to touch the arguments we said you'd hear the arguments. The argument. We said you'd hear the arguments. First, there is no need to be against the fact that the Republic of Croatia becomes, that it appears on the map of Europe and that it is an energy hub, so to speak. Energy hub. So our geostrategic position allows us to finally capitalise our geostrategic position through this LNG, not only through LNG. So, it's our responsibility, and we're going to see who these investors and buyers are, let's let the market go, we don't need to get involved in it, decide what they're going to do, from who and how much they're buying gas, and it's super simple. It's the only way we can go forward. So, yeah. We will appear on the map of Europe and we will respond to the challenge of ensuring for Central and Eastern Europe the diversification of energy and security of supply. Secondly, I'm not an environmental expert, but you hear, cars are polluting. Those who eat meat, say the cows that grow pollute mercilessly, pollute everything. In the center of the great German cities, you have thermal power plants. Did they lock them up? No, they're not. Technology's progressing. Thank God, technology is progressing, and it's making a lot of progress. Thus, Dioki must have polluted more on the island of Krk a few decades ago than the LNG would have, even floating pollution. It's polluting everything. Everything that we do in the 21st century, but because of that we can't, we have to keep doing it. developing technologies, reducing environmental impact [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73663	Representative Milosevic, time of 15 seconds has elapsed Representative Sincic, reply to the replica. [[Intruder Milosevic: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73664	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, in large part, I reject your debate because my colleagues are trying to portray me as some kind of radical environmentalist. Absolutely not. I've listed missed studies here, fake scientific thesis, and everything else a serious country shouldn't allow. Ask Mr. Francic if he was able to explain his thesis at the public hearing. Maybe next time he'll come ready to convince the people of Omis. Because the people of Omis is the people of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County clearly said through a petition that gathers through protests, through numerous other activities that they do not want by floating LNG with the project as explained. As far as we and our energy projects are concerned, we are in favour of an energy system that needs to be de facto stable, otherwise it is useless in which as much renewable energy as possible will have a share. We're not against gas. Absolutely not. I said earlier what I thought of the land LNG terminal, which I thought before. Our statements and our policies are formed on the basis of profession, consultation, monitoring of world trends. On the other hand, what you've done, you've made it impossible for the Republic of Croatia to develop to any serious extent renewable energy sources. You've brought a strategy during Jadranka Kosor's total failure. Are you a serious party? Nuclear power plant, I think it's head 632. Croatia will build a nuclear power plant. She's gone. In the first six months, she gave up. Ombla, Drava Power Plant, Plomin is late, not to tell everything else what your strategy is and what your strategic documents are. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73665	The Bunjac's captor has reported for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73666	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sincic. Here, we heard from the ranks of individual HDZ representatives that the purpose of the LNG terminal is for Croatia to appear on the map of Europe. I thought since the fifth grade of elementary school that we were on the map of Europe when we got the subject of geography, but here, now we have a new theory. You're right. You mentioned one thing, namely that the entire public is against the LNG terminal. And here, we see that individuals think they're above that public. In fact, we find out the painful fact that the ruling elite is completely separate from its citizens, that its intentions are followed rather than that they are only interested in large capital, the interests of large capital, or some possibility of buying friendship first of all, of the United States. We also saw this purchase of friendship through the Agrokor case, through the sending of Croatian soldiers to all possible military missions around the world, both Europe and Asia and Africa. And, in fact, we have to ask ourselves what benefit Croatian citizens have from all of this. It really doesn't need to be a gas expert, and the only thing that matters is what citizens are interested in, what account I get monthly for heating. It's absolutely certain that if we buy this gas through LNG terminals, so more expensive gas, that these accounts will ultimately be bigger and that's what citizens are most interested in because they can't pay even these bills now, let alone pay even bigger ones. Of course, with all this harmful environmental impact, it is clear that 99% of Croatian citizens will not benefit from it. It may be that Milosevic will have a representative and may have a current president who will be able to return to a nice position in NATO's alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73667	Replica response, Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73668	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, in the end, it's all about what we want. Policy will define energy policy, as well as all other policies. People who will do these policies, scientificly explain, they are a profession. The question is, what do the people of Omishan want? What does the people of Slavonia want? What does the people of Zagreb want? We can build 10 nuclear power plants here if we want. Now, the second question is professional, does that make sense, how it's going to affect the energy system, if they're going to work with a minus, who's going to get a job if they don't, what are the risks, that's something else. One is ideas, we can have a lot of ideas, and then there are studies that would have to tell us as much and more accurately as possible. What's the projection, what's going to happen to that project over time? We, for one, have bad ideas, what I've listed four or five, and then bad ideas to bad studies where spin's, bettrists get even more attached to the public's anger. So why didn't you tell the whole truth too much at the beginning? Then the public wouldn't mind. Maybe we could convince her. Maybe they'd convince me. And you didn't convince me. If there's so much benefits and so little damage, then we should all be in. You also spoke of the United States that unfortunately, where Trump eye, or where Juncker eye, foreign Mrs Grabar-Kitarovic and Mr Plenkovic leaped. This project will benefit primarily from the United States that will import expensive gas from the oil shale obtained by hydraulic fractionation. It will benefit those who sell... will benefit Hungary's MOL who has put its man in charge of this project and Croatian citizens will have more expensive gas and more expensive electricity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the public debate has shown to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73669	Thank you. Before we go any further, I would like to welcome the students of the Karlovac Natural School who are now with us at the gallery. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, i.e. I assume that the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will speak for MP Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73670	... for friendships and alliances, but that's your choice. [[Specially enabled.]] But don't deceive the Croatian public. In fact, it is also evidenceable on the internet to find information that the price of Russian natural gas gas in the north-east of the EU fell between 20% and 30% after LNG terminals were opened. So just don't lie and scare the Croatian public with incorrect information because it is dangerous and also punishable. OK, here we go back to today's Strategic Investments Act, I welcome the secretary of state and my colleague. We have before us today a good and useful law. It was in the assembly today and there will be a lot of those who will find a grudge against this law and probably a lot of resentment. But the vast majority of those same ones who find those grudges in life have never made a single investment if we exempt from these private purchases of the apartment. Now you've bought a private apartment as an investment some others have struggled with obstacles to Croatian bureaucracy. The vast majority was also even less likely to talk to desperate investors both Croatian and foreign and Russian, and US and German and Croatian and large and medium and small in an attempt to make investments in Croatia. Let's go in line, first of all why we need this law and this law. At least for three reasons, and I'll try to elaborate all three of them. First, we need to speed up economic growth in order to reduce the lag behind highly developed members of the Union faster, I guess we agree on that. We will not have enough tourism and European funds, as far as we read 20% of Croatia's GDP, there is not a single successful country on the globe that depends exclusively on tourism. I assure you that there is no other way to achieve and preserve everything that we all want, regardless of the differences in this assembly, for our citizens, which is social separation, more pensions, accessible healthcare and greater investment in education, but also with Croatian security, means the Croatian Army. Only an increase in business investment, especially in different industries, strengthening the private sector and employment in the private and not the public sector, and the resulting acceleration of economic growth can permanently ensure all of our common desires. I'd like to hear some arguments against what I just said later in this debate. The second reason for this law, we must move rapidly from low places to all world and European scales of places desirable for investment, competitiveness scales or economic freedoms for the private sector. The list of reasons as well as order and this, and in this reason is no different from the previous clarification. With one addition compared to other post-Communist countries, we have very little so-called. Greenfield investment by foreign investors. They're the ones where the back was bought, so something was being built and local companies weren't being bought. Especially industrial, therefore productive, those that have made Poland, the Czech Republic or Slovakia more developed and very low unemployment. The process was not weakened by domestic entrepreneurs, these same Polish, Czech, Slovaks, I know several, however, made it possible to produce and develop medium and small entrepreneurs in these countries. Foreign investment brings not only money that I would not underestimate but skills, knowledge and markets. Unfortunately, we treat Croatian investors as well as the Croatian diaspora as well as the Croatian diaspora. the attempts to invest our settlers and the different generations we often call upon and in this House to help us. Let me have another little dyspression here. Of the globally important indices, one is not mentioned in Croatia and this index is called the index of economic complexity, the short term index of economic complexity speaks of how much knowledge is in one nation, in a national economy embedded in the economy. In the past few years, unfortunately, our index has halved. So once again, I stress tourism is great but it's not enough, without industry, i.e. production is impossible to build a successful economy, an advanced society and meet the expectations of all our citizens. The third reason and also the answer to the expected criticism that this law does not solve the problem of small and medium-sized investments, i.e. medium and small entrepreneurs or craftsmen, those for whom we all keep repeating and in this assembly that they should be a key contributor to employment growth and economic growth. That is true, but it will be better and easier for all of them if major investment projects are launched and not only in the construction sector that was devastated by last 6-year recession and tax repression. So from somewhere we have to start if we need a special tool, i.e. This special law until we re-enhancing our administration and abolishing or altering all of our complex procedures and structures, collapses and bureaucratism. I am sure, I must add that this process, I hope, I want to believe will also serve as an educational process at all levels of Croatian bureaucracy or administration as you want to learn how it can truly by law and transparently but help all the sizes of Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen to realize their ideas. Until the moment our entire administration realizes that it does not get paid for itself, but because of its better and faster fulfillment of the demands of all our citizens, not just entrepreneurs and craftsmen, but especially them. And that is why our permanent commitment here in the Parliament remains to create an environment for our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, not only to achieve their ideas and projects as quickly and cheaply as possible, but also to sort out the legislative framework, reduce taxes, organise institutions and monitor them and build a new and different attitude towards business and entrepreneurship. Before I say a few more sentences about the law itself, I have to get back to this, uh, newly discussed LNG terminal. According to all indicators, this is a strategic project, not only for Croatia but for Eastern and Central Europe. Why is it strategic, because it ensures greater diversification and security in the supply of energy, the entire area of Central and Eastern Europe and puts Croatia on that map of energy Europe, a colleague of Bunjac. I had a lot of years in elementary school, and even in high school, I had a great time. We can fight after the two of us and do it in front of the cameras about the knowledge in the geography. And Croatia puts Europe on the map as an energy hub or a hub from which we can draw more benefits and not just in energy. Why are you floating because you were interested in it? Well, because it's perfectly logical not to collect gas, that gas, then it's logical to go with a few hundred million euros in investment not with a double investment. The one who knows something about investment, he knows that that investment in fixed capital, so that's what's being realized there, and normally it's going to collect the product you're selling. A few sentences, of course, about the law itself. Commendation and one principled remark. I think that another step has been made in relation to the same law adopted by the SDP Milanovic Government, I am not saying this to criticise the proposal at the time, but simply that this law is an improvement because, more precisely and more precisely, steps and procedures are prescribed and I think and I believe that transparency will be even greater, and also there is somewhere, I do not know exactly what article said that all these strategic investment projects will be published. I must also commend that one article is an article, which is an article 15 dedicated to the urgency and acceleration of procedures, I live in person for the day when the same procedures and criteria will be available to the smallest investment craft of several tens or hundreds of thousands of kunas. I think that although many will criticise the selection of criteria for declaring the project strategic given all the circumstances we face, they are chosen wisely and correctly. However, I am concerned, as I was saying a few years ago in this same place, the insanity of the contributions needed to report the strategic project as well as the large one, not to say, too many members of the operational groups. I personally don't think it's necessary for five representatives of different ministries to sit there, with full respect for these people and their knowledge and experience, to be less and less quickly and better. I think, in fact, in some ways, we recognize the weakness and the inability to force all together the state administration and its officials to cooperate together and be effective. I would certainly like to emphasise and commend Article 12(6), which provides that an investor can appoint a person in the task force. This is excellent and one of the reasons why we are at the bottom of the EU today, because the private and public sector gap in Croatia has always been great and during the recession this gap has increased, so here we are today. My one principle criticism is that there are projected pens for the investor, but not for the state if the deadlines are exceeded. Personally, I would like to get as far away as possible from the system where the state is right and when it is not a private, which they said to one private person “how can God.” Whether strategic investors will be willing to hand over the creditor, especially given the reputation we have as an investment destination, I leave them and the administration to judge each for themselves. Finally, I will repeat, a good and useful law that I will believe, help speed up a number of major investments and, on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us here, the task is to rapidly build a system that will act effectively, transparently and responsibly for all entrepreneurs, craftsmen of all sizes and species and their ideas and investments. In the end, this is no joke, but my personal favorite slogan for Croatian tourism was the "Little Land for a Big Holiday". We have to make Croatia equally big and good for investment and business otherwise we don't have to be surprised if our young people will continue to leave us, investment around us and we will be waiters and cooks every day or vice versa, waitresses and chefs in our own country. That's why we need this law until we solve all the accumulated problems, obstacles to entrepreneurs, craftsmen. The HDZ Club will support this law, I urge all of you to do the same, and I look forward to the replicas that follow and debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73671	Thank you, Representative Milosevic. The first representative to report for the replica is Agent Kleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Milosevic, you said a notor fact which is that it shares it, so you would say no to 20 per 24 per cent of GDP of the activity of tourism in our economic activity, in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. It's really too much. It seems to me that investors today see as an economic branch only tourism as profitable. I'm going to tell you that the current law in only 3 projects had its function until the end and all three projects were touristic. So during the government that I was sitting in, and the chairman of the Committee for Strategic Investments was the current chairman of this session, we concluded a contract with Adris and Maistra, and we concluded a strategic partnership for the construction of the Park Hotel. So the value is 100m euros, after which two other projects have been implemented in the private sector, it is the Punta Nova camp and the Plat hotels. So, just tourism again. I mean really what you said in your debate, we should seek to make the share of tourism as little as possible but not in the sense that we reduce it but to increase this other economic activity because it is the only thing that guarantees a healthy recovery of the Croatian economy and will give us one perspective for the future of this country as a developed European country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73673	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73674	Thank you. Comrade Kleman, that's especially important when it comes from you, former tourism minister, someone who's been in tourism for the rest of his life. Yes, I completely agree, I think we are all aware in Croatia that no serious, successful state can depend so much, long-term, or increasingly on tourism and tourism activities, and they are deeply aware of this, and I am also talking to people from tourism, they are also aware. Except that every tourism depends primarily on security, so when something depends solely on it and rests on security, then there is, of course, some security risk, which is equally important, and that is, I said in my debate on behalf of the club, the national economy must first of all be special to a few people based on knowledge. So, if we want to invest, and we want everyone in this assembly regardless of the difference, investment in education and education systems, then I guess first of all we need to invest in, of course, education related to and relation to the labour market, and that means, today we have a dozen universities all over Croatia, engineering, engineering, electrical, all these people need to work somewhere, we don't want them to go to work in Ireland or Germany. In fact, I hope so, and I will never stop believing that we can bring them all back together. By the way, statistics say that each job in industry, or in its production, binds two additional jobs. Unfortunately, that's not the case with tourism. Of course there are many more opportunities in tourism that we haven't taken advantage of, which is to connect ourselves to agriculture at last, and there are colleagues from the Living Wall right, I totally agree, we have to make this step towards agriculture, we have to give all the maximum support to people who want to deal with agriculture but I am stressing again and I will never stop stressing, but all of this should be done by entrepreneurs and craftsmen of all sizes. So we need to understand that in the 21st century if we want to be advanced, it is the private sector that will achieve all that regardless of the holder of ownership. There's always some privatisation going on, so it's all kind of the owner of this country, no matter who's the master.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73675	Thank you. Representative Jovanovic reported for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milosevic, I'm reporting around LNG because you've had it in your debate and here you're giving LNG lessons from a very high level. I tell you that we are all elected by the will of the citizens and that the will of the citizens of Omis, Krka, Primorje-Gorski County is against the floating LGN terminal. I, therefore, am acting as Parliament's representative, VIII. the election units and your colleagues from the VIII HDZ. election units, they should represent here the will of citizens who are clearly shown on several occasions. They should respect the decisions of the Omis Municipal Council, they should respect the decisions of the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly, which, by the way, were taken unanimously, were also voted by HDZ members. And they clearly say, yes, we support the strategic priorities of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the field of energy, but we believe that the solution acceptable to the Omisalj municipality, the Primorje-Gorski County, is a land terminal rather than floating. Likewise, the parliamentary representatives would have sworn that we would respect the Constitution and all the laws that come from the Constitution, and this law that we have here today in the debate says that a strategic priority can only be declared a project that is in line with the spatial plan. Therefore, in the spatial plan of the municipality of Omisalj, which was also accepted by the Primorje-Gorski County and confirmed by the ministry, there is only a land terminal. So according to this law, the floating terminal cannot be a strategic priority, so I guess it is also announcing some new law on LNG that will also be a violation of the Constitution and a violation of this law that we are today discussing and violating the will of the citizens of Omis, Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County and we must be as Parliamentarians VIII. election units lead to the interest of citizens living there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73677	Replicate response, MP Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73678	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I guess spatial plans exist in the 21st century to change, no, so they can change, but you're obviously against LNG terminals in any form, so you find various excuses that it doesn't happen. I usually have a lineage from the Primorje-Gorski County, they wouldn't believe it, hundreds of years ago, my parents moved to Zagreb from Rijeka. I have a lot of friends there acquaintances and some further relatives so I'm talking to people in the coastal-goran county, so somehow everyone I'm talking to is just for the LNG terminal and they're complaining that this poor county from which you've come is absolutely the worst in the past 27 years in terms of destroying industry. How is it that in some, it is also war-affected areas, Vukovar-Srijemska, Slavonsko-Brodska, many counties, here today there is some industry there and production, better or weaker, but in your county it all fails, Hartera, Dioki, I don't know, wherever you go, it was once one of the industrial, therefore the most developed parts of Croatia, so how is it with you? So, 3,000 people who respect their views, 3,000 in protests, I think if I can count well, that's 1% of those who live only in the Primorje-Gorski County. So, don't and don't allow it, you can't take the right to say that everyone against a 1% sample. Don't do that, I told my colleagues from the Living Wall, don't sell it here, here's the kids who listen to us, I don't know if they're amazed or not, but fake news, delusions, and those stories don't do it here, let's use the arguments, I've given you arguments, I respect your arguments. Can't happen he shrove without coming off the Shore Terminal before that. It's more economically cost-effective, it's more justified from the price position of gas and customers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73679	Thank you. Representative Jovanovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73680	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73681	Excuse me, if I may only ask before you leave. I suppose the reason, I suppose, why but I would now ask, I will grant you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, do not use the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73682	It's not a replica. So I quote, Mr. Milosevic said I know that you are against every form of LNG terminal. So, it's a lie because I made it clear and loudly said that I and all the residents who protested against the floating one were loudly saying that they were for the land LNG terminal, but he was just making up here that I said that I was against, so he lied as he lied about everything he was talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73683	Agent Milosevic, it's not a problem, I'll let go. We can replicate to me it's just good to have some fun if you're going to have fun. But I'd like to get back to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73684	Here you go. I'm not having fun, but I'm just going to say that here's this proof of what Mr... Just did, reason to change the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73685	You did not specify the article by which you requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'd really like to ask you right now, Representative Jelkovac, you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73686	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I think my colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure. because he sought a breach of the Rules of Procedure under Article 236 [[Intruder Petrov: By article?]] That's right. [[/Intruder Petrov: 236.]] He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure for something that was not the reason for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73687	Representatives Jelkovac next time you request a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please read the article you are looking for. I'm not going into your debates any further. Representative Jovanovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because of the categorical claims that you yourself made within your own replica, and that is why I also warned at the beginning. Don't use the Rules of Procedure's injuries as an institute for replicas. You have the possibility of individual debates. I agree with that, then. Don't give them a reason why they want to change their Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Dear representatives are here with us students of the School of Economics and Trade from Čakovec at the gallery, so I would like to welcome them with a round of applause. Anté Sanader's representative is reporting for replication. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73688	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, I agree with you absolutely that this law is another attempt to send a clear message to investors that we want investment and that we support investment. Here you mentioned it in your performance, and this is the daily theme today as young people run away from us and, unfortunately, not just young people, leave Croatia and that something urgent needs to be done to change the situation. But from these discussions that we heard here today I think we're sending more message to people to get out of Croatia, because everything that's trying to do in Croatia, all the investments that someone in Croatia is trying to implement, we're sending a message that we won't. But it's very interesting, these people of ours go to the countries where they do it. We're... A well, and that's what they do in Italy. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Italy, they will come to Croatia eventually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] LNG terminal or all these projects that we hear today are clearly huge noises and it's always a public opinion. ... asks if it is the interest of some groups not to have it happen in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But above all, here's an interesting phone beam, but I haven't heard a public opinion anywhere that says stop talking to our phones. So, unfortunately, this strategic investment bill has turned into a scream of what we don't want, but it doesn't hear what we want. I've been an absolutely environmentalist my whole life since '92. active. And for every project it takes an absolute battle to be ecologically clean and acceptable, but we can't and can't repeat... movement because this starts in Croatia to look like... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're against everything and then people are leaving us. And it's a tragedy of Croatian, and that's why I think you need to hear the voice of this reason, the voice calls to the investor. Because you think about what investors will think when they hear this debate in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73689	Mr. Milosevic, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73690	I can only agree with my colleague Sanader and say that, for a miracle, I've already said that a few times, it's a miracle that our children, unfortunately, don't go to Venezuela or Cuba, but go to Ireland and Germany. Well, then I guess we need everyone in this assembly, including those who don't exactly agree with the market economy and liberal democracy, to send a clear message. So if we want to keep the young and bring back those who have already left, then I guess the direction is clear to all of us. And it's super simple, actually, there's not a lot of complications. We can discuss how, but what should we do in 2018 to discuss it I don't think that's the place anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73691	Representative Damir Felak is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73692	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Milosevic. In most cases, I agree with you, and I think that you have talked about this law the way you should say it, and I think it is no wonder because you are still a man who comes from the economy and you know what the economy should do and what it should do to start strategic investments in the Republic of Croatia. We had a lot to hear here why we're against this, why we're against that. We didn't hear anything about what we were for. How are we going to hire people, how are we going to start the economy if we're against everything? Here's Mr. Sanader took some of my replica, but I just can't figure out that someone's pushing for our country's independence, our economy in everything from energy, our army and everything, that we're not good at the EU, we're not good at this, what Russia might be good at, and we know what the level of democracy in Russia is, that I'm not talking about other things. Mostly we're against everything, we're talking about this unfortunate LNG terminal, not to mention other investment projects. Let's just remember the construction of a business centre on the Flower Square in Zagreb how many protests there were. Does anyone even remember where the entrance to that famous underground garage is today? Thank God it's one of the projects that worked. If we weren't who we are, we'd have a lot more projects and a lot more jobs and a lot less people would go out. Does any running out of people on the street also represent the opinion of most people on a project or on an economic event that is happening. That's very questionable. But people go to the polls every 4 years and give their opinion, and those who get to manage have a responsibility to those citizens. Therefore, Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Petrov: Thank you. Time's up.]] Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73693	Representative Milosevic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73694	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Felak, you've remembered the Flower Square well. Namely, today's head of the opposition or at least the head of the SDP, if not the head of the opposition, I'm not sure who the head of the opposition is, so I'm saying this, I think, lying on the floor and being carried away by the police. I'm afraid he's parked a couple of times now for the last few years since the Flower Square was built. But let me say a few more sentences when I've already got a minute and a half. Somehow, on this side of the assembly, we often retreat when from some other parts of this assembly, there are various attacks of such and such stakeholders, so you know what? They're stories for little kids. ... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So we don't need to... [[Intruder Petrov: Please no trespasses.]] because there are obviously various stakeholders in this assembly, which represent various interests in Croatia and outside Croatia and individuals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, it's in a world of liberal democracy normal. The second thing I was going to say was, I didn't finish the thought, as far as the owner of the property is concerned. So, thank God, in the 21st century, private property isn't like '45. Until '50. taken away, confiscated, nationalized, kidnapped people of industry, production, apartments, houses, etc., but here we are, thank God, in the 1990s, changing that. However, we seem to be stuck in one thing. Mentally maybe we stayed there part of the time. The fact that there is a private owner does not mean and cannot mean that the less interest of this Parliament, Croatian government or Croatian society is for the same company. For the Croatian state, Croatian people are equally important state and private companies. It's private today from one or 1,000 shareholders or 100,000 shareholders. Tomorrow someone else owns it. But that's not the point. It could be jealousy, it could be bad, who has more money, but let's put that story aside. It's really, it's not gonna keep these kids here. So let's get out of the 12th century.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73695	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, you'll probably be talking about why they're all for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73696	Well, I'd like to say, Mr. Milosevic, it's very simple for you to give us moral lessons here. However, I would like to read one thought to you. He says this: for example, the state audit filed a criminal application in the form of a report for the company Pastor who owns the recent Deputy Prime Minister Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, whose father was among the first shareholders. The audit says the property of the company in Magazinska on the Selska road in Zagreb was estimated at 1.1 million marks. 1.2 million marks less than the price of city bodies. The Privatisation Fund accepted a more unfavourable offer at the price, and did not explain its choice, according to the audit, and noted that the Fund's president was Ivan Penic at the time, and the chairman of the Fund's Management Board, Borislav Škegro. The auditors also point out that the bidders paid the total amount of 1,85 million marks from loans paid back by the pastor's money or by borrowing the company. The shareholders were in debt to the Pastor for these amounts. In August 2001, the company offered 50% discount if they paid the debt for 14 days. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic was written off 1.3 million kuna and Daniel Štern million. Credit and guarantee for the purchase of shares is not in accordance with the Law, etc. It's your model of our country's governance, that's the policy you're conducting. You may be friendly towards business, but only that business that you and your friends are running, and unfortunately, Croatia is falling and young people are leaving and the question is, how long will you actually be spreading your demagogy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73697	Comrade Pernar, I'm just warning you not to speak directly like this. Stick to the topic Mr. Milosevic presented. I'm lucky Mr. Milosevic has a reply to the replica at this point, otherwise, I suppose, a breach of the Rules of Procedure would go well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73698	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. You actually surprised me, colleague Pernar, that you've been sitting here for over a year, you haven't read it before. I'm kind of surprised that I had to wait for over a year to read it, so everyone can find it on the Internet. So here's how much time I get for a minute and 40. I started my first business when I was 19, 1989, was still Yugoslavia. I don't know if you were born then. I didn't read exactly when you were born. I don't know what you've been doing since you were born, what you've studied, where exactly that can be found in Croatia. How many people did you hire, how many taxes did you pay? I'd like to hear that. That's the information I'd like to hear. So, from 1989 to 2000, I did a lot of business. It wasn't easy for me. In 2000, yes, with another partner, yes, just bought shares from small shareholders. It's 8 years after the conversion and 6 years after the privatisation. My late father, when you took a swing at him, just so you know about the Croatian public, was a stockholder of 2.5-3%, I think. And then, along with other small shareholders in the 1990s, he fought not to buy a Pastor in that same conversion and privatisation, go there and ask those people who work there. They're working the day-to-day. They export and work every day. Imagine what you're doing and what you're saying. I have to say, like I said, I'm not surprised. I'm surprised you didn't last a year and a few days, but now you're giving me moral lessons here. You completely missed, but you really missed everything. And unfortunately, one such young man has no arguments, doesn't know what to suggest, these young people, my colleague told me not to tell children but young people, so I apologize, young people. I'm still seeing myself and myself relatively young, so then, 48 years isn't much of a youth anymore, but in the 21st century maybe. So, fellow Pernar, let's hear more about what your Living Wall, living sand, living mud stands for, what you're offering these children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73699	Representative Milosevic, I now warn you so that I should not also suffer new injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, you do not need to change the Rules of Procedure to reduce the intensity of insults to a personal account, and this refers to absolutely all parliamentary representatives. Representative Grozdana Peric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73700	Dear fellow Milosevic. Well, here's what you may not have mentioned in your debate, and it's very important because it relates to the previous law, it's explicitly mentioned who the investor in this Act can be, therefore, the OPG, the family agricultural economy, can be a domestic or foreign legal person registered in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. A legal person who is the founder of the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional, regional self-government. So it is very important to know who can be an investor and that by reducing the threshold it is possible that a wide spectrum actually finds an interest in investment. And if we mention that in the last 20 years we have some 31 billion euros of investors, various, but that in the investment structure we actually have a problem because at least there have been production investments and new technologies, then it's important to say that this actually opens up other opportunities, and also to note that it's very important from 10 investments, which are now under way that 7 of them have problems with land books and actually our chaos that we draw from a long time ago, from 50, 60, 70 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73701	Representative Branimir Bunjac, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73702	Thank you, well-respected representative Milosevic, we haven't heard this much demagogy before, I don't remember, since then in the Parliament. I'd just like to answer one of your thesis, where you say you're advocating science and education and that you're pushing for that young people don't move out, or you're saying that young people won't move out, if they're allowed to build LNG terminals, floating and some other investment. Well, let me know, if you really are in favour of science and education, why are these years in the budget as a percentage of the resources for science and education? If you're in favour of these larger pensions, as you said, how that public debt, right now for your government's mandates, won the record by crossing 300 billion kuna. Because you really intend to raise your pensions and with that kind of public debt, is that possible? Second, you say make investments. Well, you had investments, Mr. Milosevic, all the banks you handed over to the websites. Have jobs been opened, salaries increased, young people stopped moving out, higher pensions? No, they're not. Did you give the Conchar? Did you give Podravka? Did you give HT? Are we on our way to giving Agrokor now? Did you give INA? Are you announcing the privatisation of HEP? So where are these jobs? So you wrote in the program that there would be 180,000 jobs. Did you open 180, let alone 1,000? So you keep talking about it, that's it, now, now, here tomorrow, just raise your hands. And so for 27 years now, look at the results of your government and all your previous governments, so you'll understand that you, who brought the state into this state, and not us from the opposition that we've never been in power, what are you talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73703	The reply to the replica of Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73704	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you may not have listened to me very carefully, but quite often, not just to me, and to other colleagues you draw one sentence out of context, and then you deal with it and put it back in the completely wrong context. I don't know what the banks and pensions have to do with anything, so just give me an exact explanation. So, property in banks, which is the only sector, unfortunately, I stress, unfortunately, that the only sector that, with a six-year recession, has passed relatively undecided is the banking sector. You want me to tell you why? Firsthand, I was never a banker. Because they have prescribed procedures, educated management, and they know what they're doing. For it seems to me that it is to be explained to you, who have already chosen many men in the Living Wall, that the property is one thing, and the rule of the other. The management depends on the results of some company, including banks. The bank is usually a specific business because of the corner. It lends other people's money and therefore there is a special procedure of the Central Bank and everything else. There's a couple of times I feel really like we're in elementary school. I've been sitting here, unfortunately for six years now, and I agree with you, we haven't arrived in Germany, but I will continue to fight for it to try to catch up with Germany, but that's how it is for you. There's a way, there's rules in the world, there's some rules that don't stick to, like in football. You know if you play with your hand, so it doesn't work, somehow you break up the judge and you lose the game. That's what you play football with all the time. That's the same thing in this game we're playing, which means running the country. There are certain rules. The national economy and leadership, there are certain rules. Maybe in Cuba what you're causing or in Venezuela, there's nothing there. I lock you up there, put you in jail, kidnap your firm, declare you head of the opposition, secret, I don't know which spy, etc. Come on, guys, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, guys, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Not to call you quicksand, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73705	Thank you. Representative Pernar, you have requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, but I would only ask that you give me the above article and give me exactly what the injured Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73706	You got it. Mr. Domagoj Milosevic, article 238, said, among other things, that we are living mud in the Living Wall, And I agree with him, we are living mud for you from HDZ. [[Intruder: He didn't say that.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73707	He didn't say that, Agent Pernar, he didn't say that. He mentioned it at the very end, don't let me tell you that you are, but he didn't say that word, but okay. I accept and I would really ask you not to use this figure, because it is not appropriate, especially for you to descend to a personal level. Representative Josip Boris asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73708	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, I support both the law and your debate, even because there is a threshold of 10 million kuna on the islands to declare something strategic infrastructure projects. But we have seen today, how one serious topic can be banalized, in a way that here, colleagues from the Living Wall have brought the story of strategic investment projects to the level of illustration, that's what they're talking about. And now we hear that LNG doesn't have to, that it just bothers us, and we know and remember many delegations, who traveled by plane, to Qatar, back one plane, two planes, the president of the government, and they were all for LNG terminal and the Mayor of Komadin who gave a nice one statement why they supported the floating terminal in the area of Omis. And then today we hear from politicians, not from the profession that it is not in line with the spatial plan, and the profession says it is doing all the documents and environmental impact study according to the spatial plan and the municipalities and the county. Now the question is, who do you trust? I always say, politics finds a way why something is not needed, but it is up to us to determine why we need something because the fact is that the project has received 100m euros from the European Union. Shall we say that we don't need 100 million euros to achieve what we all want, some level of energy independence. We say no, let it go to Italy, somewhere else I don't know which country, maybe Montenegro, maybe it doesn't matter in Slovenia. We have experience from Lithuania where in a lagoon that is part of a national park, 300m from the city's fourth floating LNG. They don't mind, they're fine. So we're trying to lie, to convince the citizens why we don't need something. We're still waiting for someone to tell us who's gonna have two light bulbs, who's gonna have three, and who won't be allowed to heat up on gas, but the question is who's gonna say it, which politician is gonna say it. Nobody, let's be independent so we don't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73709	Thank you. Replica reply by Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73710	Well, I agree with my colleague, Boric, you said it all right. Let's talk a lot, work a little bit, and then we'll do nothing. That somehow everyone together in this assembly especially these younger parliamentary deputies, and also the younger intern, forgets that Croatia has been through six years of recession. No EU country unfortunately has passed six years of recession. Is that what the governments are responsible for? Yeah, they did why it took six years of recession. Well, I've been here hours, hours, hours and hours, and many of my colleagues, not to mention everyone because not everyone here at the HDZ club is explaining to their colleagues in the SDP why in 2012 it was not allowed to raise VAT that would bring us back, we were just passing our heads in 2011 somehow up to the second and third quarter of the recession. And when others started to recover in 2012, we re-emerged in the recession. Yeah, that was wrong. Were there any mistakes before 2012? Yes, it was, but it's not going to help us, but to learn from it, I guess, and to show and prove that we've learned, so now let's start cutting these same taxes for citizens and entrepreneurs and start doing what we've learned in these last ten years what it takes and how it's necessary, because I hope it really does, even though it's necessary, I think that 99% of the MPs would agree. We do not differ most often on how, but then how will citizens in liberal democracy judge who they trust more, how we will achieve something, given that we all want to do so, I do not doubt them for a better life, a better quality and a safer one. So there are we believe on the right hand, certain rules as I have said the rules of the game exist, and that is what this government needs to deliver to Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs as soon as possible to get back to the EU's most developed countries as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73711	Thank you. Representative Shuker has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Milosevic, from about 130 minutes to the length of the debate on this law, I think we've only been discussing 30 minutes of the law, something from fellow Dobrović and you. This whole thing went in some other direction. So I would send a message to all colleagues who are considering discussing asking themselves a question and not having to say it publicly, do they really think that the generator of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia can be public investment and consumption? In 2007, we said that public investment simply must change economic policy, cannot be a generator for economic growth. If we think so, then we can call this law welcome potential investors. And we, instead of today, send a message from this House to all potential investors that with this law we want to remove all the bureaucratic and administrative obstacles that hinder people when they want to do something, both domestic and foreign. No, what message are we sending? Whatever anyone suggests, we're against it. And also when the topic comes and debates about how young Croats leave Croatia, so where will we hire them if we do not allow investment for the good God? Where? And I say today instead of talking about it, we may disagree with certain provisions of this law, but let's say what we want to change. And that's why I want to, and I'm going to talk about it a little bit more in an individual debate, that this task force, as soon as the government passed the law, everyone in its segment had to see what in its investment laws should change to remove administrative obstacles. And when we debated it this way, then people would support us, but this kind of debate like we're running a normal thing that everyone will be mad at us. And so colleagues and colleagues, this law, look at what our meeting room looks like to us that solves some crucial problems, we don't have to agree that it's good or bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73713	I'm glad you said there were no parliamentary representatives. Replica reply by Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73714	Thank you, Vice President. So, I agree with my colleague Schuker, unfortunately, the least we could do is talk about the Strategic Investments Act, but we've already gotten used to it, especially from colleagues from the Living Wall, who don't read the subject of their debate most often, but they actually use this only stage for their personal promotion and for attacks without even personal ones, but we're used to it, but without any idea of what they would offer and what their views are, in fact, economic attitudes. One thing I will stress here is that I still have a minute and a half, so this law needs to be seen as a special law, a special tool that at least for large investors, buys time to get investment in a period of time as soon as possible while it simply has to be reorganised by the public sector, reorganize local self-government and clearly determine the responsibilities, explain to the Croatian administration not to tell bureaucracy what its tasks are, which are priorities, how they will do so if you want to invest in them and educate them for what they should do in the 21st century. So that's the only way to look at this law. I expected today to actually be a lot more arguments in a way so where are your small entrepreneurs, medium, but all of this somehow disappeared in some sort of personal argument, debate and LNG Terminal. LNG Terminal is only one of 10 strategic, truly national strategic projects that will put Croatia on the map of Europe, or the world. So the energy map of the Rijeka-Zagreb railway, that's kind of a little bit of a talk. And it's a strategic project that the entire Primorje-Gorski County, which has the tourist potential, but here's that logistics and industrial, is unfortunately completely neglected, for 26 years it's managed by the same team, the result is there. I'm not saying it's easy to manage a local environment or a region without a central government, but the 27-year-old brother is just too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73715	Thank you. The club representative of the HSS reported on the replica. On their behalf, MP Davor Vlaovic will speak. ... For the debate, I apologize, thank you, Mr. Shucker. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73716	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the respected secretary of state with an associate. Here on behalf of the HSS Club we have said and I repeat, and now that we will always support laws that go in the direction of creating assumptions about economic growth and development, to facilitate investment and help the economy with the goal of creating new jobs. So in this direction and this proposed Law on Strategic Investment Projects in Croatia should be a tool for the Republic of Croatia to go in that direction and the very highlights we heard from the debate and what stands in the law is that it should speed up procedures, reduce administration and as a result have new investments in the Republic. We all agree on that, and I'm personal about it. However, it should also point to certain problems that we face and that we have had contact with potential investment and investors and once again warn about those problems so as not to repeat mistakes. And the fact is that we want growth not as the finance minister announces GDP growth 2.9%, we need much higher growth rates to catch up with countries in the environment because all EU member states are our competition in attracting investment because they want investment in their own area. We can't be satisfied with these 36 projects that are in realisation so far, but we want them to be much more and the main problem in Croatia when you talk to potential investors is exactly what's already mentioned, over-indulgence, a lot of laws, the non-compliance of laws with each other. And what is also important is that I personally experienced that there is often no cooperation between the two state bodies. So while the two state bodies are agreeing on how to make the project a strategic investment by an investor give up that it took too long. So I'm sure this law stipulates that it is simplified and I welcome that, and so do we from the HSS. There's something you wanted to say?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73717	I warned the MPs to pay attention to your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73718	Okay, thank you. I'm also saying this from experience because one investor who was supposed to invest in the Brod-Posavia situation because it took too long, which two state bodies, two ministries couldn't agree on, simply gave up on the investment. It is also a major problem and legal uncertainty where we often have a situation where we often change laws too often, that the judiciary has an unequal judgment and that it takes too long. Well, here's one example, as a negative example of just investing in Slavonski Brod, the thermopower plant is the same on the domestic investor's gas because of administrative obstacles ended up in court and went to a higher commercial court where no debate was called in 2, 3 years. What kind of message are we sending to both the domestic investor and the one we want to bring to the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia tomorrow? I think we need to change those brakes and those barriers. And I would agree with what Mr. Domagoj Milosevic said to this team that would run this strategic investment project in the Republic of Croatia, and it is not necessary for all ministries to be interested in reducing and speeding it up. And if the Ministry of Economy is resolute and the main coordinator, then their opinion and proposals must be respected and responded hastily to the investors' demands. What's also important is that public investment can't lift what we want. We also need new railways and roads, but we need a business environment, we need investors to open production facilities. In order for that to happen, someone must be their point of reference. And I point out that because this point in Croatia is the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness. And what kind of message we send, instead of strengthening that institution, is that we give them maximum support in the state budget for this year, we cut the amount of funding for this agency. He thinks that this is not a good way to go, and that this and similar agencies that make up this infrastructure that should attract investment in Croatia need to be strengthened and financially strengthened so that this future investor can get information in one place about the laws and the state of employment, unemployment, the skills of those same ones that are in the employment office and unfortunately we still have them in Croatia over 170 thousand and most of all in Slavonia and Baranja and how to start the investment. And that is why the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness is there a very important wheel in that mosaic together with other competent state bodies. It is also mentioned here that we must keep an eye on it here and that we must take care of the even development of the Republic of Croatia and that is one key issue for those regions that are less developed to achieve more developed. I will always and will talk about the problems of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for the reason that right there is the highest unemployment rate and the highest risk of poverty and the largest number of young people who emigrate. Therefore, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem goes in this direction to raise this level of quality of life and the number of employees in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. But most of these projects remain on these public investments. The roads, the tracks, the ports, yes, that's what I need. Because without it, of course there's no investment. But it's missing exactly that part of the other part, and that's economic development, new jobs. In this direction and other laws, and it has already been said here, I will repeat, and other ministries need to keep an eye on the laws that change to help growth in the economy, investment. For example, when it comes to changing profit taxes, we asked on behalf of the HSS Club that those investments that go to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and other undeveloped regions that the invested profits are recognised not to go into taxation. This is one example of where we can help create an entrepreneurial climate and investment in these undeveloped areas. Surely there are more models and ways, but we need to talk publicly about it if we really share the common interest in these regions of investment, new jobs, then we need to think through all the laws, including the one we're discussing today. It is said here that both domestic craftsmen and entrepreneurs and small ones, because every investor that comes to a country first asks what kind of employee structure is, what is the structure of people at the Employment Service, from which he will draw into future labour. But also from whom it will benefit certain service activities or have partners in production, and that is why it is important to preserve these small craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and family farms and give them the chance to be partners with this great investment that we want. Here we see in particular through the agriculture mentioned, which is the strategic branch of the Croatian economy under our legislation, it does not seem much to be done in this direction, for example, by preserving domestic capacities, to preserve the domestic industry. We've already mentioned Petrokemija Kutina, there's no large income production in warfare without investment, and investment without mineral fertilisers has no yield, no income. If we allow this way to treat this company, therefore, I think it must be the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, to preserve this production in the Republic of Croatia, then we certainly cannot wait for months to find a way, to find a strategic partner for Petrokemia Kutina. We cannot put ourselves in a situation where some companies such as the port of Brod or the company Đuro Djakovic from Slavonski Brod will be removed from the list of special interests for the Republic of Croatia, although, according to Minister Dalic, they will be dealt with by a good master. And then when there's a public call job that they could get, they get a company job that's never done anything like that. In particular, JANAF oil tanks get companies that don't have such references. We thus send a message that we do not appreciate the domestic industry, especially from the region that is underdeveloped and where we cry for jobs. That is why it is necessary for our turn in our heads, that through such messages we send a message to future investors outside Croatia, and that we all wish that we had more investment in the Republic of Croatia. And, of course, it's not in a certain area of life without water, but I've been talking here and I'm going to do it again. The eastern regional water pipeline of Slavonia, which should supply water to Brdsko-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and part of Osijek-Baranja County, as well as some 585 million kunas, should be invested. It is not yet prepared to apply for tenders and has free funds for the same. This must be and I ask that it be entered into the project Slavonia and the list of strategic projects, that the water can also get quality water from Privlaka and Otok and Komletci and the town of Slavonski Brod and Nova Gradiška and, of course, other areas that need water. And of course there is no development without investment in science and education and in this direction, here I appeal to all of us, to help Slavonia, and then to the town of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County to get a university. We have the Parliament's decision, we have the Constitutional Court's decision and it's up to us that through, here we have another new university in Slavonski Brod we give young people a chance to educate in their city, to reduce the costs of their schooling. Of course, it will be in cooperation with the existing engineering college and industry that operates in the area and then we will provide them with both a job and a salary tomorrow that they will be able to live on. Here again I say we will support this law because it goes towards creating an entrepreneurial climate and total infrastructure to attract investment, and these negative examples from the past must make sure that we don't do it again, that we really reduce these administrative barriers and help our domestic economy and our man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73719	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73720	Thank you very much. A fellow strategic investment is needed, however, when these investments are purely private investments as is the case... Then you remember the reaction here that was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even this project, I don't know if by this law that project is on the list, Juncker's co-financing list. I don't know whether this law, regardless of what happened after the Minister's attack on me here when I asked only for an answer because of this private investment that owns it, one of the co-owners, the husband of Minister Buric, one of the eclectic examples of a project that would damage, means, above all, an area rich in drinking water, which is Peruca, so we here need to be careful whether this law brings private investments that threaten the environment and the essential resources such as water. But we don't have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt to protect our territorial seas. We only have the courage to push projects that are of private interest and that Martina Dalic is pushing through his ministers and his people. If it's strategic, then I'm afraid more people will move out. You were talking about Slavonia. From Dalmatinska Zagora from 2011 to 2016, 23 thousand people left, so it is one area from Krka to Neretva, which means that we have private interests here, are not protected interests or reversible which is pushed... Something further along the river Cetina on Kameshnica we already have a project that is HEP's project, but it's in the drawer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But a project is being pushed that is co-owner of the husband, the majority owner, i.e. the husband of Minister Buric. And you remember the reaction here, Minister Dalic, and I ask the secretary where is Minister Dalic? Which now doesn't defend its strategic projects like the Perun thermal power plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73721	Time. Thank you. Representative Vlaović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73722	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Bulj, so clearly that we from HSS are in favour of strategic projects, investment and new jobs in the Republic of Croatia. And I think that's what the entire public and all the people who voted for us are expecting, but I agree with you, too, that not one such strategic investment and project because someone has declared it strategically disrupting safety, disrupting the environment, disrupting and bringing an area to an opportunity to run out of population because it will adversely affect the quality of life in this area, the quality of water or air quality, as unfortunately, remains bad in the town of Slavonski Brod. Well, here we go, and this time I have to do it again. Today, the state of floating particles PM-20 and PM-2.5 in Slavonski Brod is again exceeded. It's been 25 times this year, and it can be 30 times over the year, so count on how long it's gonna be until the end of the year if the situation doesn't change. And I'm saying that in the context of strategic investments because one of them is the merger of the refinery in the Bosnian Ship to the pipeline that was announced in 3 or 6 months and it still hasn't happened. So with the right of people then ask, you declare something that is of strategic interest to citizens, you give them a chance and hope that they will have jobs tomorrow, and then when the movie is turned back you see that it's some kind of private investment that doesn't exactly have all the relevant facts that will not affect the quality of life of people in that area and that God will not give, as you said, destroy the drinking water in a particular area. This must not happen with any project, and I believe that we have a need and we have an obligation to communicate with the public, with our citizens, with the units of local self-government, respect their decisions and respect the spatial-planned documentation of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73723	Thank you. Representative Sagar has come forward for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73724	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaović. So when we perform, we who come from Slavonia, then very quickly feel ours, I would say, our aspirations and we like to mention. You mentioned it now in the region's debate. But we don't have a region, watch out. We had municipalities, cities and counties. Good in the operational sense if there are projects beyond the county, then we are talking about the region as Slavonia and Baranja. This cumulative summation of something in the project Slavonia and Baranja may sound very good to the media, but the essence is not that. It's all about municipalities, cities and counties again, actually, for their initiatives. And what we can, not by this bill, by a series of other laws that we do, are subsidies or incentives and there is some progress. And we can do that within an existing structure. However, when we talk about a tax, another important component, which is a tax press, we can't here, our hands are tied because the laws are passed on to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We can't have certain regional laws, where we'll release... And in that sense, it's an interesting phenomenon for Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll say it like that, phenomenon exactly. They're estimated 12 times the investment they've attracted than the economy of their size can. This is about 54 investment projects worth 2.5 billion euros. And now that they speak as an advantage in Serbia? In addition to tax incentives, they state exactly what you mentioned in the part of your exposure, it is education. We had here the Law on Professional Education which we welcomed, however, there is the same key. The workforce, which is trained at that time, that when the investment comes, they can take over these tasks, that at the end of the day they can have adequate labour that will be paid to the extent possible to be competitive. And there is the problem of Croatia. Croatia must see what is happening in the environment, and that is exactly what the media is writing, two major investors have gone to Serbia. They invest there, they don't invest in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73725	Agent Ivan Shuker. Excuse me. Replica response, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73726	... I'll answer, so here you go, sir. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you for your replica and for mentioning Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem once more. I always point out that I want all areas in the Republic of Croatia to develop and that we all have an equal chance, and the worst indicators on employment, emigration and poverty are in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and that is why I said that this project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem through all infrastructure projects that need the railway to Vinkovac and to Vukovar and the port of Brod and the port of Osijek and the port of Vukovar, but who will be driving these roads and the railways and what goods will be loaded? It therefore requires more craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the area to operate in the area. In order for the rest of them to have some greater benefits than the rest of the Zagreb, Varazdin or Međimurje economy, I think. It is impossible to pass selective laws but also through the project Slavonia here and the Prime Minister and Minister Dalic said that it must be 4.5 laws or more changes and be coordinated to allow projects to be implemented. And now I repeat it, so it would be simpler to pass a law then, a new law on Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, as we have the Law on Islands, as we have the Law on the City of Vukovar and in this way would be easier to resolve these problems because one investor will go to Varazdin and Zagreb rather than to come to Slavonski Brod or Vukovar if he has the same conditions of business, that is reality. And that is why we must in some way stimulate those who will invest in such areas as Slavonia, such as Lika, such as Podravina or others where we have both economic and economic and demographic problems, and that is why I keep pointing out. And of course, without investing in science and education, there is no such thing as quality or educated labour with the skills that the investor will need. And that's why he needs a university in Slavonski Brod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73727	Thank you. Representative Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vlaovic, I came forward because of two things that you pointed out in your debate, one need is cooperation between all levels of government, so from local self-government to state and the need for co-operation between state authorities. It is also important to build municipal infrastructure as a prerequisite for investment attractiveness. Now let me mention two examples, one of your work, one of my work. So in Slavonski Brod, a shopping mall, a man has come to invest, there's a conflict, I don't want to judge here at all who is guilty, who isn't, it's not on my mind at all, but it's an example of how you can't work, how we send a bad picture. So, the investor comes in and suddenly the conflict of local and state authorities, you don't know who drinks, who pays, the center isn't open, someone pays the penalty which is the worst, we send an ugly message. The second is my town of Great Gorica. Here's the cooperation between the two units of local self-government. The city pool, the investor is the city, the pool is built on the land of a secondary school centre which is the founder of the county and the owner of the county, the county has given land for the swimming pool but is a problem around the access road because they thought it would go both ways and now there is a crackdown. Why, why? If they let it be an investment, then the logical thing is to be an access road. But I'm just giving you two examples. And that perhaps today in this debate we are talking about negative examples, perhaps the legislator might come up with some more quality solutions that simply must be prescribed by law because you can't prescribe everything from the cabinet, but the experience of mayors, mayors, directors of business dealing with the economy, what all encounters in these administrative, bureaucratic obstacles would be to make the law what is most important, more operational. Because here we need an operational law, we don't need a law that's going to be a dead letter on paper because we don't have time for a dead letter on paper anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73729	Thank you. I thought Mr. Shucker, that vertical functioned the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73730	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Shuker, and I agree with you when we pass the laws, then we must first and foremost make sure that the laws are clear, enforceable and sustainable. And so we all respect them and spend them. I'm glad you mentioned this problem in Slavonski Brod and also in Velika Gorica because these are examples where we send, I agree with you, a bad message to investors. The only thing that happened in this bad relationship with the investor, regardless of whether it's from the city or the ministry, is that now 40 people are working there and will earn their salary. But what's not good is that those shelves in that chain of commerce will be 90% of the product outside the Republic of Croatia. Now, I'd like to ask all of us to share together through this law and through other laws to raise our domestic production and enable that domestic OPG to sell its product on that shelf in that chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73731	Thank you, Agent Vlaovic. Representative Klaric called for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73732	Dear colleague Vlaovic, you spoke of a law that should be enforceable, you spoke of bureaucratic barriers, you spoke of investments that were strategically like your thermal power plant, so it was never implemented. The laws are okay, it's not a law issue, I now had an investor this Saturday and by all these criteria more than a strategic investment that should be for the Republic of Croatia, over 2,000 jobs, over 100,000 square meters of land and everything. This week my phone is supposed to be full of calls from both HEP and Plinacro, and I don't know who because they're spending huge amounts of gas, they're gonna be spending a huge amount of water, over 500,000 cc's, 40 megawatts of electricity, I don't know what. My director and I today have been calling these institutions today to tell me how much we can offer them, what are the prices and how they... So, what am I saying? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The laws aren't bad, we can only fix them here, build them up, correct some gaps because these bureaucratic barriers and I'm looking at each one of them as one stalking mechanism, and your stalking mechanism is full of wheels and bearings. If there is only one savings, and there is unfortunately a lot of them here in Croatia, when that single savings, write off that investment and forget about the investor because the investor each and this one, I was also talking about it when I talked about the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, he is a fearsome beast. That's what he's looking for right now and right now or he's going the other way, and that's how it happens all the time. If we have to keep looking for some data, chasing around the ministries, by agencies, negotiating, negotiating, wasting time, he's going, going where he's going right away to realize his project, and that's where we're losing strategic investment without talking about these people's events. Here's someone mentioning the Flower Square. Let's remember that lying there in Flower Square, those big demonstrations. All of this is one of the most beautiful, orderliest parts of Zagreb, in this flower square someone does, someone earns their salary and we all walk there. And let's remember how many demonstrations... So much for everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73733	Thank you. Replica response, MP Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73734	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Klaric, I said that we would support the law because the law is a good tool for the government to really encourage investment and to be partners with investors in the Republic of Croatia. I have presented several bad examples from current practice, precisely with the desire to through law enforcement, through sublegal acts that will be the implementing acts for the implementation of the law in our legislation and the economy do not happen and do not make such mistakes for the future. And it can't be justified by anything that two state bodies can't agree, that it takes a correspondence for months and over a year and that we end up losing an investor, and we lose it. It is a happy circumstance that he is still considering this investment and may still come to us after this new law. And that's why it's good that the team that's going to conduct that investment is proposed to be on the team and the investor representative, because so far it hasn't been and that's certainly good. And of course I'm appealing to the state bodies, to the ministries that once they get on that team then they're making an effort to be active, and not that pro forms are there, that meetings aren't held because they're ministers, and usually ministers are in those bodies somewhere on the way, and that's less important to them. This should be the first job. If they're already on the team, if there's no time to be on that team then let the secretary of state be and so be really serious and operational. In this direction, then, of course, other supporting institutions should be strengthened. I have already mentioned the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness and of course see what with units of local (regional) self-government actively taking part in this direction that, if the investment is happening, and they want it in their field also have some word and possibility of affecting the investment as soon as possible in Croatia and that this must be our common goal and new jobs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73735	Now it is the club of representatives of the HNS and respected colleague Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73736	Thank you, Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We will support this bill because it brings certain improvements in any case. However, we must remember 2013 in the atmosphere, so Croatia's entry into the EU has passed this law and for the first time it has started to be more active and more concrete. This law has been complemented in 2014 and 2016 and certain improvements have been introduced. However, it is obvious that certain things must be reacted to, we are going to a completely new law that practically complements, enriches materially but also simplifies certain procedures that are necessary I believe based on the experiences of all these previous years of implementation of this law. When we talk about strategic investment projects in general when talking about the implementation of certain projects, then we must have a very simple project approach which this law also prescribes. And I can agree in one part with predecessors, previous colleagues. I think that fellow Milosevic has apostrophe to try it in the coming period in a little way to reduce certain steps and steps that this law prescribes exactly in a way that speeds up certain processes. Namely, the experiences that are, which come here I see that all of us here have more or less, and from local level you have to lead both investors and investment by name and last name. Whether it is on behalf of the ministry, the minister, the person in charge, that he is running both the project and the investor financing the project through administrative barriers that must create a favourable business environment for his investment for the investment project. If that's not the way we're gonna think about it, I'm afraid that neither this law that, in any case, is an improvement, I'm not sure how much better it can get than the previous one. All in all, there is not much to add, nor to take away except this part. I say there I can agree with my fellow Milosevic, who said that he should be in the body that implements the strategic project of so many resors, so many ministries. I'm afraid maybe that's where we should think about it, and just for the very reason that in good faith, the project's intention should not slow down. It's inevitable when we talk about strategic investment, here's one thing you'll allow me to do. So it's an extremely important and favourable business environment. This one law can only be seen as one segment certainly positive in attracting investments. There's an investor behind every investment. What are the largest investors currently in the Republic of Croatia? So we go to European money, the Republic of Croatia in one part and who else? Whether they're foreign or domestic investors. A favourable business environment is a continuous process that practically when you start it you have to improve it and never stop. What affects a favourable business environment? Well, let's just say one very interesting piece of information, maybe it's not crucial, but just as picturesque as it is, I want to show you something. Why doesn't a Roman make cheap cars for ordinary people? You have everyone on the portals. It's very simple to read. Tells me what that car is for. I don't know how many kilowatts of battery, etc. and then in the final text, so the negative criticism of the Croatian public is to put it this way on an innovative project, on an innovative investment. However, what is the essence of the story? The point of the story isn't that car, because it doesn't even have a place to drive, of course, but the development of technology. We're talking here and the law itself says increasing jobs. Absolutely for. Creation does not know how to strengthen the economy, etc. However, what is the future? So that's what, we have an economic strategy and we have very clearly defined ourselves, that the economy could develop, uninterruptedly, independently of the external influences of primarily energy. Road, transport infrastructure, rail, etc. So that's where we need to see which way and how. No one wants to, I'll say, I'll paralyze a colleague, no one wants a dump in their backyard. But where are we going with the waste? No one wants in their backyard, specifically, right now, floating LNG terminal, what are we gonna heat up on? I believe you've all seen in your environment or traveled, you've got those bottles, the time bombs for the incinerated gas near the house. Well, it looks a lot worse to me and a lot more damage can probably do, not God, but a LNG terminal. You don't want heat, hydropower plant on Peru, renewable energy sources. We won't need electricity, okay, and we'd like to develop an economy. I mean, people need to be determined, and we have an obligation, of course, by respecting, like this law, also respects all assumptions, from spatial planning documentation, from environmental impact studies, previous studies, so all the positive regulations must be respected in order to talk about a specific investment or investment project. I'm not denying it. However, we must become aware that we must give something to look for. I don't mean to give anything or physically or anything, so we have to give something up. What I would still like to say, which is a very important factor and I will try to answer and give answers to some of the questions that we have heard here, is primarily political stability. counterpart Klaric has said one version to investors, so they are very timid, they are very selective. No serious investor, I'm speaking outside, means about private capital and domestic capital, too, doesn't want to invest unless he knows what he's investing in, where he's investing specifically, one example from my environment. Oh, she says, so now you have local elections in May and she talks to me, says who will be, says tomorrow at the local elections, so I said, it doesn't matter here at the local level, I'm not sure at national level. To what level investors think when they ask where and how they will invest. Whether or not it's gone to good luck, we remember the memory column of Vukovar. When the 2 columns were organized, who, what and how in Vukovar prevented the government, state institutions, a smooth walk towards the monument. You think that didn't affect investment in Slavonia or that area? Well, it certainly is, it is. And let's not let our colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about political stability, then let's not succumb to populistism, let's not succumb and live in the past, and this law will not revive and experience greater or less success unless we look into the future. What I would like to say is, there are certain statistics, when the law was passed, statistics, of course, in 2013, there were 345 000 unemployed in the Republic of Croatia somewhere around 20% of registered unemployment rates, 2014. 373, according to data today, 188,000 was registered somewhere around 9%. What you would like and certainly is the intention to implement this law, and should primarily be the responsibility of the government as a whole, which is, to follow, where the problems are in law enforcement. Even though experience, of all the governments that have implemented this law in action, tells us where it's squeamishing us, that so, simply, there was a lot of talk about it. And succesively, implementing amendments to corrections, legislative interventions. 9% of unregistered unemployment rates at the level of the Republic of Croatia, there are areas where it is 2%, 3%, you don't have adequate labour, you have an investor, you have no one to hire. You have no one to hire, and he doesn't want to go invest, where we have 15 and 16 and 20% still in certain regions of unemployment. Well, we should ask ourselves why. It is also intervened with certain benefits in areas of special state concern, but this does not give the results they expected, however, it should be asked why. Furthermore, the big steps are being made, even bigger ones are expected, investors and domestics and foreign ones are no longer making a difference, looking for a skilled workforce. Education has no alternative, as soon as possible, as soon as possible. I'm going to mention the Roman again, the development of new technologies, so if you'll excuse me, they're not going to be the scavengers, the builders aren't going to be able to work on the development of this new technology, they won't, they're going to be doing something else. As for the same thing, 188,000 unemployed, that's great potential, that's great potential, I believe that at least 1/3 of people are capable of health, physical, to take a step towards the labour market. That's 60,000 people, 60,000 people, that's terrible. And today we're looking for quotas for the import of some 40,000 people. So it's the Ministry of Labour. Not to mention, I'm still not listing which ministries must take steps if we are to attract investment and investors because, unfortunately, there is now no one in Croatia to work. Em, we don't have any training forces, but we don't have a workforce that's ready to go out from the office to the labour market. Finally, the HNS Club will support this bill and I believe that the government will, of course, be the most responsible of all, be the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Economy which is responsible for the implementation of this law and for the management of projects and investors with the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, to nevertheless see more concrete developments in attracting investment and investors over a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73737	We have five replicas. First up, dear friend Tulio Demetlika, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73738	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I listened very carefully to your presentations and like Mr. Milosevic, you said you would support this law, that the law was good but you expressed certain doubts. And in your presentation, it is these very doubts that moved me to this replica. You said you needed to reduce the procedure and that you doubted the realization. The fact is that we are witnessing that investors are bypassing us today, that they are going to Romania, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary and similar countries, and that we have heard from the State Secretary and 36 projects have been implemented, and now the question is whether by adopting this quality law we will manage to keep these investors and finally start so expected, I will say investment primarily in the economy but I will say the same in that public sector. In fact, we mentioned all the problems of the cadastre, from the spatial plans, and we said that the aim of this law is to simplify the procedure and speed up the realization. I want to ask the question of how this law is speeding up because they don't write any deadlines anywhere. It means when all the conditions of spatial plans are met, from decisions, from criteria that the investor must take which deadlines to issue all necessary documentation to declare it by a strategic project. We have a series of examples so far where exactly because of disagreement and not responsibility i.e. The investors have left to assume the responsibility of the competent ministries. Because when an investor must go simultaneously to the Ministry of Tourism, to the Ministry of Agriculture, to the Ministry of Economy, to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and eventually to the Ministry of State Property, and when they all need to agree together to come to the realization of such a strategic project, the project falls behind, the investor goes away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73739	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73740	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Demetlik and you and I know that at a local level it may be much simpler to organize it, I would dare to show a lead investor through an investment, I think we're thinking the same thing. I'm not going to tell him to hold his hand and lead because it's simply not necessary, but in what way to be his support. It means do everything for him. There's an Investment Agency, I don't see why, why not. She's finally doing it. However, if something is declared a strategic project, it is a priority. I don't know all the procedures, everything that needs to be done. And it must pass as soon as possible from the beginning to the realization. In particular, there's one person in town who's in charge of investors, whether it's domestic, whether it's foreign. He knows everything, a complete database, all laws in the Republic of Croatia, and he practically does a hodogram of the activities of everything the investor is waiting for on that road. Of course we're taking him and doing all the things he needs for free. Whether it's city land, whether it's private land, of course we're not buying private land for it, so it's not something wrong, but we're taking it through the process. And as long as it will not be approached in such a way and there is a possibility in this law through existing regulation, if there is no such approach, I am not sure whether this law will obtain the results we expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73741	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73742	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, dear counterpart Batinić, you have concentrated your discussions on a favourable business environment in which I fully agree with you and said that, as far as the elements of the favourable business environment are concerned, political stability is certainly very important. You are right, but there I would add that, in addition to political stability, what Croatia is missing today, and that is legal regulation and clearly unequivocally enforceable rules and procedures. I am talking to you on the basis of experience where two projects from a small unit of local self-government from which I come and which are included in the list of strategic projects we have met with something which, because of the very rules that are not clear and precise, because of very poor communication among certain representatives of state institutions because of the indecision itself, and thus the irresponsibility that the deadlines have needlessly prolonged, moved and definitely a waste of time means losing money, losing new jobs, losing the impact of income tax, a positive impact on GDP, etc. Now I'd say we have a set of laws that are just slowing down the realisation of strategic investments. One of these laws is the State Property Act. That's what I was talking about in the debate on behalf of the club, and if we don't show that we have the power to make decisions and we simply break some standards so that tomorrow after a moment and a time with pleasure we can say what you said at the end, let's see with this new law that we finally have a number of implemented strategic projects and investments. That must be our goal, but some laws, some paradigms, we have to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73743	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73744	Thank you, Mr. President. And the law mentions state property and, of course, I believe that this Law on State Property that we expect in the second reading will provide some answers and these questions are related to strategic projects and the minister has listened carefully and I believe that some of our thinking and suggestions will apply. In part, I responded, and that is also a response to you when I and my colleagues Demetliki responded, namely if the strategic investment project is not positioned that the priority of the entire state administration is local, the region will always be at the barrier. Unless there's a vertical, unless there's a breakthrough in this bill, unfortunately, it's going to be a dead letter on paper. So I said maybe at the bar it's easier to do this, so if it happens strategically for the local level, so I'm comparing the project now, through all the administrative departments, it's a priority to carry out all the activities of property law, than to change spatial plans, than anything that needs to be related to that part is priority, priority. The second, unfortunately, must be put aside. If we don't have that kind of approach, I'm afraid this law in good faith won't get that expected result with good improvements. And of course if all of us here together in the Parliament, the Government, the political options will not build a favourable business environment not to deal with the past but to look into the future, it's one to perhaps even important moments but also this law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73745	We're going to the third line now, colleague Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73746	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, fellow Batinić, here I would like to reiterate what you said was necessary to create a positive business environment. It is that our investors are very timid and it is not difficult to lose both investors and investment and everything that brings about that end. However, mayors, mayors, mayors, have major problems and themselves with their citizens. This would set a recent example in the town of Vodice, or on the island of Prvic, despite the fact that the marina was planned in the county plan and there was no problem with it being included in the county plan and then in the spatial plan of the town of Vodice, however, when the urban plan of the island of Prvic was to be adopted, there were major problems and for a clear reason why elections for local committees were to follow. In fact, a potential investor has addressed a group of islanders who, and their dissatisfied political opponents, have gathered around them even the occasional inhabitants of the island, meaning those who would very much like to come two, three weeks or a month on the island of Prvic to continue to be able to tell me down on the island and in the coast of the beach to bathe, so they are not eager to invest as those permanent residents who would be very happy to bring new jobs and, of course, all those guests who come to the marina would use other services, so they would also develop new catering and commercial crafts and so on. They're not interested in it, and then there's the protest. It also puts the mayor, mayor, mayor, mayor in this case and the mayor in spite of what was already in the spatial plans. So sometimes you don't have to wonder why there are no investments in a particular area, and we have quality laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73747	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73748	Thank you. It's in the part where I said that I didn't define this local level of a favourable business environment, of course that's what was meant. But I say that we all have to work from local to national level to change the paradigm of thinking about entrepreneurship, private investment, private capital. Don't mind my colleagues on my right, we're negatively red thinking in our heads, negatively red. Why? The fact is that democracy has no alternative and is not perfect and each of us has probably had such negative experiences and that, however, the fact is that somewhere it takes longer, more time to talk, explain, but I find it difficult to judge the example. I also had an example where there was a question of disposal of municipal waste dumps, a major project that we funded, made it long before everyone where the citizens rebelled. And what did we do? Five times we went to talk, until they were presented what, how, how, how will work means that we should insist on it and above all, that they take responsibility in the decision-making process. Okay, you don't want an investment, you lose it, you lose it, you lose it and you do it if you go ahead. Let it be your decision, then don't come to me afterwards. Of course, I'm saying it's picturesquely I'm trying to explain it, but some things are unpredictable as much as they are at the bar and they're doing national work, some things will still be uncertain. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73749	Thank you. 4th replica, dear colleague Lovrinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73750	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Batinić, I have listened carefully to your exposure. Of course, I think there is no one here who is not interested in the fact that investments are progressing in Croatia both domestically and abroad, but by more clearly means criteria, by the way, that there are evaluations of an investment project from all aspects and you have talked about some of these aspects. You were talking about the stability of the government, political stability that is a prerequisite, etc., etc. But I repeat what I said an hour and a half ago, two, how you're going to attract foreign investors in a situation where we have a bad judiciary, when we have a culture of non-payment, when we have terribly high interest rates, etc., etc. So of course we should work on it. But most today it was about LNG as a strategic project. Well, I think you agree, too, all serious people agree that such a project that we call strategic, it has to have a head and tail, we need to know how much it costs, so to whom we're going to sell that gas. No one's against it, but if it's done, if we have answers to all questions from environmental, financial to sales distribution. But what I want to ask you, you see, nobody's talking about how much we can produce our own gas in Croatia because for years we haven't invested in new sites and sources and the authorities in that area in Croatia say that investments have been invested and that we could continue to invest, we could meet the needs of our gas 100%. Of course, the needs are broader geopolitical and geostrategic to feed Central Europe with gas, but we have to have a calculation of how much it costs. If it costs $400 million, we have 100 million, we don't know who's gonna pay 300 million. We don't have ecological standards whether they'll be land, floating, etc. So... [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Lovrinović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73751	We're going to the next line, Your Honor, please respond to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73752	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President. So here's what I have to say to my colleague Lovrinovic that I'm a little surprised because from your political environment when we talk about hydrocarbon research, there were negative, negative comments that this should not be, etc., but now the problem is also a floating LNG terminal. And certainly this when you asked the question of what our reserves are, so let's play a very strong strategic project, a gas exploration in the Adriatic, so we'll know how much. But I agree that when you spoke, I will refer mainly to this part when you said very clear criteria, conditions, etc. It means that the project, and it says very clearly in the law at all, would come to consider whether it is strategic or not, must be created any previous assumptions. If there is a need for an environmental impact study, it must be a business study, a business plan, a realisation, meaning a series of advances must be so that it can come to a table for discussion at all. So it's undeniable and it shouldn't be dealt with at all, so that's something that's meant to be, which is understood. As far as the hydrocarbons are concerned, I don't think there's any alternative. Although I say, from a political mile, the environment where you come from and whose member you are is contrary to that. But now on the other hand, I'm glad to hear you say we have to do it because it's a matter of gas reserves from where, how, in what way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73753	We're going to the last line now. Dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73754	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Batinic, that someone else might have said what you said about the pay phone I would have understood it in a different light, but knowing you and knowing that since 2005, I think you are the mayor of the town of Ivanca, then, and since you have always won that you have a fondness from that electoral body, means direct, direct selection then I realized your statement when you said you will not be able to define the strategy. So I didn't understand it in a negative sense, but in how you wanted to say it, someone needs to think about the future of both this country and investment. And why am I bringing it up now? Lastly, just the last part of your debate when you talk about the Employment Service or the Stock Exchange and when you talk about the education system and that there are today people who can't actually respond to the needs of the labour market. However, what has happened to us must not be forgotten. Here in my county there are a series of companies that have been destroyed. People used to, let's say take the wood industry, people were working, sometimes we had even the interests of a wooden technician, today I don't know all the fewer kids writing that direction or... Or, let's say, engineering technician. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These people used to do furniture. Today they're called from a stock market of 50 or 60 years old and he says let's drink the boards. People can't answer that for health reasons anymore, for other reasons. But what I'd like to do is, if I understand you well and confront you in thinking, you can't just market to work out an education system, education system must and create a labour market. So the state can't act like it doesn't see or hear anything exactly the Ministry of Economy and through other ministries. Here, take this employment office, and he's got some work to do to direct people. The truth is there are some trainings, but that's not enough. The Institute for Employment with the Educational System, with trade unions that also do not have a clearly defined role in this society, should lead people into this process so that people get a better job and not that guilt falls on them again that they are not professional enough to respond to labour market needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73755	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73756	I was not in a negative context talking about fellow builders and carpenters, but I said in a context when I read from the portal the negative attitude of that part of the public that was evident about the Roman's new model. And I said that he didn't produce a car as a car, that he was a final product, but he produces technology and can't cashiers and builders work in that part. If you may have misunderstood me, I don't underestimate you. Every occupation, every knowledge, praise is worth, honest, correct. And we need it. And we also miss the builders, let's see, they're already more sophisticated technologies regarding the metal-processing sector. And of course there is a need for synergy, but as far as education and skilled labour are concerned, whether in the processing sector, whether in the rest of the economy. Without this synergy and cooperation, there will be no results. We are also aware that our education system is complex and its structure is trom and inert, but we also have to change that paradigm. So target personnel training started in 2009. For two years, for the professional profession of carpenters for the domestic wood industry, it took two years to break into the ministry to start thinking that way at all. Today comes out of 15-20 educated carpenters, everyone has a job, but the synergy of regional levels, local levels and businesses themselves. The fact is, there's another thing, we're still schooling the labour market. However, it is something that will certainly need to be corrected in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73757	Thank you. We're going to the next debate. GLAS and HSU representatives' club, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73758	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is before us in the second reading of the Strategic Investments Act. In his first reading, the GLAS and HSU voted in favour of the law, so it supported, and that's when I said one sentence that I'm going to repeat now. This is your chamomile. It won't hurt you, and it won't contribute much. Every government, therefore, I remember a little longer, every government there since the Sanader government tried to pass the Strategic Investments Act. When you pass a law on strategic investment, you actually want to send a message to investors. It's a government that advocates investment, it's important that investments come, so the Strategic Investment Act, one law was also in the government where I participated, and now we have this Law. He's technically correct. It is relatively simple, short and technically correct. But let's get into the essence of the whole story and the essence of what we want. If we do not change our thinking in our heads, if we do not change the way we operate at all, then this Law will also be a correct law, but it will neither help nor help. There's always one step to take. For a brave step, there should be certain strengths. We live in a time where it's much simpler to say no to investment than to invest. When you say no to investment, then you go to barricades, you fight there, you talk about all the bad things, whether you know what you're talking about or not, but when you say that investment, then you're always like that, so look, this one's helping some investment, why is that? One of the reasons why it also decided there some days to pass the Strategic Investments Act and to prescribe what these strategic investments were was one very, very prosaic reason. There was one case where a local permit and a building permit were delivered in one office within a month. And then the official who ran the office was called because he quickly issued a local and construction permit and he had this interest because it was too quickly issued. And then, among other things, it was both a process and everything because it was too quick to issue a permit. Today, by introducing an e-registration and everything else, there is no reason not to issue a permit in one day, if all is well prepared. But the way we're working more and more, we're trying to work to find 22 reasons why something doesn't, but five reasons why something would, and something in that sense, affirmative that something was actually happening. There was a debate about LNG even though it wasn't LNG law, it wasn't Lex specialis, one was an absolute second reason. If he had been our President of the Parliament, he would have probably interrupted that debate several times because it's not a debate about this. However, LNG is a strategic project. And about LNG, let's tell the real truth. The real truth is this: LNG is planned with a spatial plan on land. There's no spatial plan planned at sea. And what we all have to advocate is that there are absolutely investments that need to be supported, but there are some things that we must never step down from because when we first step down and when we first say it, I'm already saying it, in defense when you make a little hole and you don't patch it up, it gets bigger and the dam goes away and goes all together. The LNG terminal at sea is not planned. In order for the project to be discussed at all further, it must be planned with a spatial plan and an environmental impact assessment must be carried out for it. It is the minimum standard that should be for a strategic project and this speaks of a strategic project. If we pull one project out and pass a special bill for this project, then the question is where is the end. I still don't want to talk about LNG anymore, but I'm going to talk about some other things that are important. There is little to listen to what the businessmen who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia say are their obstacles. We think it's the judiciary. However, they point to three problems. First they're talking about tax policy too often and they don't get a clear tax policy from the start to the end of the investment, it's like when you see a sports dictionary you go to a game, so you think you play handball and somebody tells you you're playing basketball. The other thing they say is that working legislation is inflexible and third things say it's insecure and overpriced energy. They don't talk about justice because they may not have met with it the way we meet, but they don't talk about it. And that's the answer we need to give and answer those three questions and those 3 topics we need to change through legislation, we need to set up because this is a condition for individual investments to go. I don't know how many times I've said it from this pay phone, and I'm going to say I don't know how many times I've told you how many times I've told you about an unsettled catastro and grants. And I don't know how many examples I've told you where investors are actually going to invest, even make everything, designs and spatial plan, and I'm talking affirmatively about the space plan of the lower level, so these are the implementation documents of the spatial arrangement, and they think that they own the land, even the result of the location permits, and then they go on a building permit and it turns out they're not land owners. So what I'm talking about is a messy cadastre and an unsettled garter. Why did that happen? It was because of the arrangements we had, because it was behind '45. until recently, no one had even seen if the grant's condition had changed or changed since the catastrous had run its own state, so it was bound by ownership, it just didn't. And what a serious step should do should be done, indeed, in terms of the adoption of a single regulation and the setting up of a catastrophe and garland. And the government that wants to send a message is important to us every investment, we care about strategic projects, the message is sent through a law that will allow it to be resolved. But the law may be the most ideal possible, but if you don't, if you don't have the instruments, it will remain a dead letter on paper and some of the next 30 articles will make it 40 or instead of 40, 30 and nothing important will happen. The next problem is labour. Let's be honest and let's face it, everyone together has become a labour problem in Croatia. We have a lot of professions that we teach for other countries. I don't have any problem opening up from this pay phone. All children who are now studying at the health school or regardless of what is called, they are former higher schools, they do not think at all to stay working in Croatia, they are absolutely thinking of going to work, of course, the country that is always hot is Germany and we are actually schooling from our budget children to work in Germany, Germany says we need labour forces and Germany can pay just as well because their schooling has not invested in zero, I deliberately mention Germany because it is a country in which we are going to work for this climate. What's going on in construction today? It's the closest thing to me, so I'll talk about it. Your next case is happening in construction today. There are no workers. Let's be honest and admit that for years we've been using workers from Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo, that it was a working force used in construction and what companies that got a serious job and who have to do this serious job at a certain time are doing. They register BiH firms as additional firms because it is possible and then employ labour from Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia and then agree with them to work in Croatia because it is the only way they can do one job. Therefore, this law opens several topics and several dilemmas. The first topic that we need to be clear in what work we want to be attractive to every investor because I really think that an investment that employs a man is a valuable investment that needs to be taken into account. Another thing to do is to make an operational law that really has certain instruments, this law says again, that's where the predecessors used to say, there's a series of commissions, so the commission meets, so it decides, so you come on that list and then you let yourself go into insignificant local self-government, so as it may be, it will be, and then one day it will come back. The idea was always to have a man in charge of you, to have a man from the agency, who's in charge of you and who's taking you around and leading your investment and all those problems and dilemmas that need to be solved. And the next problem that, my people, we don't have people who work, we don't have people who work in tourism today. Today, one of the most interesting enrollments of children in high school is the job of chefs. Why? Because they're offered a job right away and it's a job in the euro, 2,3,000 euros, knows they'll get it and then they'll work one period and another period won't. I remember the period when Zagreb couldn't get into cosmetics school because it was wellness, then there was actually some other topic and you had to have in primary school 5.0 when we were talking about girls to enroll that school. So that's what I'm telling you in the context of modernism, in the context of suddenly being something, and then everyone writing it down, that there's no clear strategy that we're developing, how we want all the country to have, what we want to be in that country, and then to develop these individual activities, or certain activities. Equally, you know, when you're my age then you remember very well what was done a while ago, so I remember very well when the Strategic Investments Act was going to go to the government, or proposed by the government where I was, I was doing it, then it was if I remember it well, and you remember all of you, the demonstrations, that we would steal agricultural land, that they would cross Croatia's forests, that water would be stolen, that everything would be given to foreigners, that we were selling Croatia, that we didn't have feelings for Croatia and everything else. In this law you have a Chapter 6 that speaks about the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia that has several provisions, which I personally absolutely think is important to be, and which is actually saying what is really happening with the land owned by the Republic of Croatia, so there is a provision that says that if you develop a private investment, it is a private strategic investment, that everything that is below 50% of the land can be sold directly to you at the price assessed in accordance with the Real Estate Assessment Act, and there is a provision that says that, in these cases, a forest and forest economic base can be separated from the forest and the forest, and in fact, when it is so isolated, it can be sold. I didn't notice that it was at all a topic of debate, I didn't even notice, that those who were then saying that they wanted to sell water, forests, agricultural land in that strategic investment law that they said something. I normally think that such a provision should be and the state must have a tool where it can with its land conclude that it will not develop its own investment that has something to do with it. But, of course, the debate always goes in the direction of someone else. It is therefore good to discuss this law. This law, to conclude, is a correct law, technically well done, it will not make any significant step, unless we step into other laws. It's about a stable tax policy, it's about labour legislation, and it's about energy issues, so you can offer energy. And what I would agree to, you can absolutely see and notice in the years when the elections, all the investors at stand by, waiting to see what will come. In the end I have very little, it was mentioned on several occasions and the topic is doing business and the scale on which Croatia is on. The World Bank, when it was working on a scale, rated Croatia and said where there are options for improvement and said where the elements should be improved, should be changed, we should do so. It's just whether we want to do it or not. Equally, she said that when the investment goes, the municipal contribution should not burden the building permit, the issue of a building permit, but the investment further. We're ready for that. So that's a series of topics we have to answer that we're ready for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73759	Thank you. We've got six replicas, the first one's a colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73760	Dear Representatives Mrak Taritash, so I would like to say that this LNG terminal, is not only disputed on the ecological side, although the environmental side is the one most frequently mentioned, but is also controversial on the economic side, so it is not economically profitable. It will cost a lot, but the result of its construction will not be cheaper gas, that is what the Croatian public does not know, but will be more expensive gas. So we're going to be able to import through that LNG terminal, which is 30% more expensive than the one we're currently importing. And what's the result? Who's gonna buy more expensive gas? So no one's normal to buy it, and we're going to have an dysfunctional terminal, which reminds me of that clay factory in Obrovec that's been talking for decades, which is an example of the project that the state entered, which was made for, even though it wasn't cost-effective. And this government, HDZ, HNS, it violates all principles of the market economy. The market economy says you're doing what's worth doing, doing what's needed. Is there a need for 30% more expensive gas in Croatia? No, I don't. Is there a need to build billions of kunas of expensive terminals that no one needs? No, I don't. This is a project that's being done under the US Embassy directive, this is a project that's being done because Trump wants it, not Donald Trump, not because the people of Omishan want it. And the HDZs when they say that everyone who they know is for that terminal. Well, here, let them ask their councilors at the Primorian County Assembly, who are members of HDZ and who voted against the terminal and whether they are for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73761	Thank you, answer, distinguished representative of the Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73762	Thank you very much. So, the LNG terminal, it's really rounding up the public, for a long time. I in this House, when we're negotiating certain topics, then I really don't dare be a parliamentary representative of general practice and I think I understand everything and I absolutely have no problem saying that you don't understand. But there's something that I've been saying here, which I kind of pretend to understand, which is two things. The first thing that must be planned by a spatial plan. So, Art. 2. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that spatial planning is actually the task of uniting local self-government and taking away that unit of local self-government is I would dare say clearly, anti-constitutional category. So, this LNG terminal, whether it's better at sea or it's better on land, and as much as it costs one and the other, but it has to be planned by a spatial plan and for that I'll absolutely stand up for it and I'll be willing not to come and I'll be absolutely against it, and it's very against some special law, which says for certain cases don't have to be planned spatial plans, because we've actually broken everything here. And the second topic is the topic of environmental impact assessment. The way that I can say that I am, I will not imagine, but it is true that I have been involved in environmental impact assessments since the very beginning when it started there and introduced into Croatian legislation, there in '86. So the first environmental impact assessments started. Environmental impact assessments and the way it's been done for 30 years and the way it's done today is absolutely different. And what we must advocate, we must advocate, we must stand up when any procedure is to make it the most acceptable from the point of view of environmental impact assessment and suit the technologies that are known at that moment. And when it comes to LNG, I'll always stand for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73763	Next replica, respected representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Taritash Camilica took a step forward to speed up the processes and that is the only and most important question I would say about this bill. What is it to us strategically target economic policy. How is it possible to narrow down the procedure? How do you speed it all up? Why we treat each bill as if it covers one sector, one group, one story. Why do we always and most often close our own investment cycles just because of all the possible thesis about who for whom and against whom? We agree that ownership relations have been mentioned and this is important one of the most important issues of the ownership book is not neat and we all know that we are especially at the local level. Also, the development strategy, and we all know that cities and municipalities are first drivers of these strategic plans, and they plan and bind through county strategic plans towards the state. And that creates one ring relationship. There are a lot of issues related to strategic investment, and it is essential whether we are bringing the direction that opens the door to investment or we are still weighing ourselves. There are so many good stories and strategic, quality stories and we are all dealing with this issue only from Istria, most often today. And from the south across the country, we have so many important strategic issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73765	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73766	Thank you very much. We listen to each other, then we just hear the part that we want to hear. I, among other things, said in my presentation that we live in a time where it's much simpler to say no than yes. You say no. You don't even have to say the reasons for the principle you're not, but when you say that then you have to work really hard on why, which is why everything else. And so was the first time I talked about this law I said that he was a correct law, that he was technically a good law. But there is a series for him too, a series of things we need to change. We need to change, you know what the basic thing to change is? We need to change the thinking in our heads. While people who work, so people who work in the state administration no matter what levels they start to think about in a way that pays them, their salary is from the budget. Who's filling the budget? Among other budgets full of investors. It's not that investors come to their door to bother them, to burden them, so now they need something, but they actually need to really try to make that investment go away. Because that's all in this law that's the consequence of a law like this. You know, there's this one saying that I can't work so little, or you can't pay me as little as I can do, which is an absolutely wrong sentence. You need to start thinking all together. And so the people who work that it's important to give the investor answers as soon as possible, and I deliberately said the fact that when someone issued a local and construction license in 30 days didn't have any, it wasn't affirmative, see, you betrayed super fast. Why is he so quick to betray? What was his interest there? Why didn't he slow it down a bit? There must be some interest, so there's always a problem in your head. You have to, and that's why you have to have the courage to say some things and do some things. It's not simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73767	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73768	Mr. Vice President, colleague Anka. As Government, we have passed this law and we know for what purpose and how we know about it and what we have managed to do under that law. And the real question is this that you asked how many of these cosmetic changes are going to affect the improvement of the whole situation, and the situation isn't a bit good at all. So that's what I'm saying. So, not even a little good. These days we have seen that GDP slows down primarily because of the slowdown in investment and that is Croatia's key problem at the moment. No new projects. In particular, there are no major projects, especially no large EU projects. The last one we agreed, big, very big Long Village – Križevci, Dubrovnik airport and something like that, 250 million euros big. There are no such projects, we have to be aware of that. It's the responsibility of the state, but it's also the responsibility of the state for the business climate. The responsibility of the state is for economic policy. I will now very openly say that we have a serious problem at this point and when it comes to economic policy. So, apart from these micro and mezo, to say the problems that you have mentioned in general, we have given up monetary policies in a developmental sense long ago, and now we have given up the fiscal policies of that part of its development and it is very dangerous for Croatia. I am here asking the open question whether the goal of relatively fast entry into the monetary union and zero deficit policy is so I would say budget surplus at this time is something that helps Croatia maintain a sufficient rate of economic growth. It is a key issue for Croatia. And I call on all the strategies of this government to seriously consider what kind of water policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73769	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73770	Thank you very much. You know, they often take the opposition as someone who criticizes them, someone who's angry. I really try every time to talk and tell my people we have some kind of experience. We care about investment in this country, we care about getting better in this country, and you understand when we talk to you in that context. I even sometimes go well-intentioned to the other side and say don't do that crazy thing, it'll end up wrong, don't do it for the simple reason we care. We really know what time it was with the Strategic Investments Act, and that's why I said it. This law is a decent law, we can discuss one or the other, whether this provision is like this or not, and that should be made clear. But behind that, it must first be a good team to do it. If you don't have a team to do it, you're going to be stuck with all the other regulations, and all the other laws are going to end up and that investor is going to say a little bit, why am I even declared strategic, which is special to something else. And that's the danger that it is. But a serious step, therefore, is not a serious step towards investment until it answers what is bothering investors and believe me when it comes to investment, there is no serious step-out without taking care of the cadastres and grantovnica, and we are in the next round of labour problems. We have launched a project of energy efficiency in our mandate, and we have not asked our companies to report to this project because they said they are unprepared, that they do not know, that they do not have enough people and we can start projects and others, but there will be no people who do this, and we need to make that clear. And that's the alarm that's supposed to be ringing in everyone's head.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73771	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73772	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. Yeah, it's an alarm that needs to be lit. The truth is today we are talking about a segment of economic development in the Republic of Croatia, we have touched a very important topic, and this is a question of going to our people, especially those who have been schooling for many years in the Republic of Croatia, and then we actually come to the topic, and it is about the Law on Professional Education that was in the Croatian Parliament, we either want to copy an Austrian or German model of dual education where these things that you're talking about would not happen. Because you know what was the achievement of that law, I objected to the minister? It says there in one article that a student who works for more than four hours must have 30 minutes of rest secured. That's defeating. You must provide that student with at least a warm meal, and you must give the employer everything to invest in people, so that he can scholarship them, and that later these people then continue to work at a company that is involved in their education. I am pleased that the minister included my proposal in the first reading in Article 7(2) when I said that one of the activities was put into science and education. In the Republic of Croatia investments must go in the direction of education, it is the only way that we teach young people for the labour market, that entrepreneurs are actively involved in the process of education and then there will be fewer of these problems that you rightly warned about, and then our policy from economic growth is expanding to the survival and demographic survival of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73773	The answer to the replica of the respected representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73774	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, it is good that you mentioned in this context and education. In order for us to have a direction in education at all, we should know what kind of Croatia we want in 2030, the kind of Croatia we want in 2050, because today high schools are enrolling children, so they will be enrolling in the fall of some high school and something, for there in ten years they will go to work at all. That's why I was deliberately talking about chefs, and I deliberately mentioned cosmetics, and at one point, I know about the city of Zagreb, I don't know about the other, you couldn't get into the cosmetics school, was it an occupation that was very acceptable at that time in the field of work. Everyone saw each other or all the young people were seeing each other somewhere, but in order for you to know what kind of education and what kind of professional it is and we need to know what kind of Croatia we want in 2030, 2050. Is this going to be Croatia in which I don't know the pharmaceutical industry, in which another industry will develop from tourism? And I will deliberately mention tourism, tourism is something we rely on and tourism works on. It depends on the number of beautiful days and the full budget and everyone happy and satisfied. However, they have two problems. One problem is that in a certain part of Croatia lives on rent, and young people think that they no longer live on the job but live on the rent. You have four apartments, five apartments you rent and you live all year long and you don't have to work, but you live on rent. And another thing, tourism must generate something else. Our tourism was supposed to develop a wooden, processing industry, agricultural, food industry, that's what didn't happen and that's what's alarming about tourism. I also like to see all the data as full of the budget, but he should have done something else, he should have generated the development of other industries which he didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73775	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Mira Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened to a colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, talking about the outflow of people from Croatia for wages. But it is not just wages, very often people go to these Western countries to the countries of "old Western Europe" because they have a safe high pension after many years of work and also believe in the health system there. After 30 years of working in Croatia, you can be “intellectual” as it was called in communism will have a small salary. There are a lot of colleagues who have been to the state administration, even mayors in communism, who have a pension of 4.5,000 kuna. You in Germany, Austria, have a threefold pension in Sweden after 20 years of working as a'manual'. I therefore agree with you that we should have a comprehensive view of world movements, of movements on our continent, of Croatian needs on Croatian opportunities and a strategy to attract investments in Croatia and how to have a sustainable market economy in the long term and how to educate people according to our needs. They can't and don't all have to be surgeons, lawyers, it's no shame, it's an honor to be a good craftsman. It's an honor to be a good tokar,... as in these countries, Central and Western Europe. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you are a good craftsman, then it is an honor to pass on this to younger generations and to live from it and be recognized in Croatian society and this test of maturity for the organisation of our economy and our society must be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73777	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73778	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Kovac, therefore, when the debate on the Law on Strategic Investments is, of course, much wider and much wider problems. Otherwise, I think that by joining the EU, young people, I deliberately speak to young people, have been given the opportunity to act. They have no problem working in Sweden today, so they don't have a problem with them working for six months, I don't know, in Portugal, so in Spain, they get the opportunity to try out what they're really worth outside their own backyard. And that's what we really need in the Republic of Croatia. Not be in your own backyard, not be in that fence and watch yourself. You know, the question is, are you gonna be the first in the village or the fifth in town? I'd always opt for the fifth in town before the first in the village. And young people have really been given the opportunity to try their own, to see what their opportunities are in the real world. And that's absolutely good. However, when such a law is the key question that we all need to ask ourselves and to which there is no answer, what kind of Croatia is in 20 years? Not for 4 years how long the mandate of a government takes, but for 20 years and what we do for 20 years in the Republic of Croatia, that and that. I was, in terms of spatial planning, a little bit more involved in demographics and what demographics are and what to do, and then I watched what Scandinavian countries did to make a serious step. They are the first results, especially, Denmark is an excellent example. It's a good example, it has a population of something like Croatia and so it's a good example. It's a process where you see the result in 20 years because you can't see the result in a single government's mandate, not even a double mandate, but you see it in 20 years, but you need to move into the process. And there's always danger, you can't see the results. So someone who's prime minister or who's government in his term doesn't see the results. The results will be seen by someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73779	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Loncher. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73780	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Taritash, there are so many obstacles to the development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia every day because one of the people working on these programs is me, developing an economic zone. But all together if we do not coordinate from the level of local to regional, or national level, we will always encounter difficulties that only man can overcome. If we don't bind all the institutions of this country, starting with cadastres, courts, lawyers etc., believe that the economic development of the Republic of Croatia will be slow, and the obstacles that you have actually cited here is exactly one of the biggest key problems of land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The second is, what you just pointed out, a stable tax policy. In all talks with investors, the key reason is precisely a stable tax policy and property-legal security. This is what the key is because based on these two things that investors are absolutely unable to obtain guarantee is why they leave Croatia. The second thing, in a conversation with investors, i.e. employers, they seek exclusive incentives per employee. All these measures that are given through development have come well, however, a key development incentive measure is an incentive per employee. And that's what we all have to do together, especially on the issue of building acts. What investors expect after 2-3 years of building permits is simply impossible and they are leaving Croatia because of these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73781	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73782	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lonchar, I must confess, you know, when you talk a little bit then they're all declared for. However, so many legs in the door as I have seen, I find it hard to tell a series of stories, I once joked and said I was sorry that I didn't record all those millions of people I talked to, and there are those who just came and went, but you also have those who are willing to invest. However, the messages we send as Croatia to investors outside are the wrong messages. The wrong message is the moment someone thinks they bought the land, and then you go through the whole process and you say, "And that's a little bit of a joke, you bought it from the wrong one." And an even bigger message is who bought it from the local self-government unit, and the state says: you couldn't buy it from the community and the city, you had to buy it from me. They don't understand. And it makes sense that they don't understand. So, just so that the investment can go further, and that the state and the city will try each other out, so to speak, whose is already one message that he knows. Because he's all state. They don't understand investors until the end that he's a little in the community, so he's a little in the county, so he's a little in the state, so he comes to the ministry and he says, "I don't have anything to do with it." So these are the messages we're sending wrong. When we passed this Strategic Investment Act, I'm sure there's no fundamentally different thinking now, it was the idea of a strategic investment being monitored. To be monitored from state level. That you literally have a government official who's going to run this investment by hand that's going to pick up the phone and say why you didn't betray this, why this? And then that makes sense. This is how you pass the Law, leave it to the waterless, and nothing has changed, and the messages we send to investors outside are alarming.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73783	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73784	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are talking about strategic investment, of course that in this law we have also described the criteria of strategic projects and investments and we see here that there are valid spatial plans, co-financing of how much of the EU funds there is, we see here that it is talking about assisted areas, that it is talking about islands. However, we are talking about this and harmonising with EU directives and current legal gains of the EU, but we have not passed the Law on the mountainous mountainous area. It means that this is one farce, one fog, because 2 years ago, the Ministry of Regional Development promised a new law, which was last amended in 2014 since 2002, has been changed seven times, which simply does not recognise what is fundamentally what is now and the Regional Development Act itself, has declared many cities where investments should be invested and there should have been more favourable investments, such as Drniš, for example. where he's developed or unemployed. Of course, not only are there no unemployed, but there are no residents. So this was upside down, the areas were evicted and, of course, that we and a number of projects from these areas, which have been forgotten, and then I'm going to talk about it in a different way, like, and about the monetary centre of Marko Marulić University in Knin, because here we mention that activities in education, activities in science, activities in energy, activities in activities. However, this is the project that was the first almost 10.5m euros in value, which is deliberately boycotted in Knin for the end, which would have been one driving investment like boycotting. She's boycotting why, let me explain to Minister Dalic, who was supposed to be here, because we have countless questions regarding strategic investments. Of course I'd be a little bit more distant, let me ask the question about the thermal power plant, because it was simply an indicator of how strategic investments are actually being broken down. Like what? They push through the ears of a needle. Like what? One of the two projects of Juncker's fund, so-called in the EU, where 315 billion euros were scheduled, just... The project, of course, was pushed well from the lobbyed by Mrs. Pejnović Buric, who worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, her husband is a co-owner, who was supposed to finance the adoption of Juncker's plan, can also be confirmed by her colleague Stier, because she well knows Mrs. Buric, how it all works and how lobbying at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for strategic projects that were harmful, not only for the Cetina Final, but the strategic resource of the Republic, is will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And indeed, to such an important law, when we talk about strategic projects, we should be Deputy Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, probably or even a copy of Mrs. Martina Dalic, because I simply asked the thermo power plant about the strategic project... Mr. Plenkovic, and she answered Martin Dalic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, she was then... as a diameter, because, by then, I didn't know that she was a specimen but then she confirmed that fact, so I would like to be denied by people who are in diplomacy, when asked in the European Parliament, the head man, whether it corresponds to someone third, fourth without consent, the diameter during the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, once again I call on you secretaries to call Martina Dalic, I have countless questions to ask, because simply in the case of strategic decisions on this law I do not believe anything. Why don't I believe it? Therefore, if he arrived at Juncker's plan, investment, and did not pass here, the basic, ecological and environmental commission and was later proven to be a harmful project and energy and economic and strategic thermal power plant of Peru, I do not understand how he arrived at such a high level unless he was lobbyed, but indeed here colleagues, who were in diplomacy, here she was a colleague of Vesna Pusic, there is no, from parliamentary representatives, minister, Mr. Miro Kovac, Mr. Davor Stier, they could explain how they got it, when the wife of the project owner such as... That is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And somewhere we have four projects,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] how one of your assistants could have done it, and the key, if that were funny, but that's true, if the people of the Chetino region hadn't gotten up, they'd be in a lot of damage today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know, I'm glad to see you in the days of Alka and the Great Lady when you're coming, it's nice to come, but please explain to me how it's possible that projects that didn't go through the basic ecological conditions from the commission and later proved that we were right, 67 scientists signed when you were here screaming that I was inventing, an expert, when they were talking about why Mira Bulju trusted and not experts. And when 67 experts signed it, it was a pain in the ass. It was not only Mislav Cvitković, Ursic and Mr. Šimunović, the scientist, but the academic community had for the first time the courage with civil society, the defense organizations of the monastery in Sinj, the miracle lady of Sinjska, meaning the mention of the civil association, the Split Macarska archdiocese, the entire province, meaning from associations, civil defenders, and myself as we pointed out to scientists, not that harmful project. You remember the attack here, Minister Dalic, on me, I just asked a question, a precedent, and indeed, here, because the co-owner was talking about it before the appointment of your successor, Mr Stier, and you, too, her predecessor, Mr Kovac, I was saying here to appoint a person who is in an equitious conflict of interest who is co-operating with the EU at the base of his job and that a project that is harmful to Croatia has been pushed through. I used to say that before when she was in the ministry, but I was saying the day before the appointment, you wouldn't listen to me, and of course I'm glad Mrs. Pejnović didn't talk to Buric then, but turned to the minister and asked for the diameter. So we have a number of inconclusives. I expect you to have the law, we have here we have the Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva. 13000 people less than, 26000 less than 2011 to 2016 per list. We have, I'm holding in my hand in Knin one important project, because science is mentioned here, so. It's called health care. Well, health care could attract us a lot more resources, but we are last in Europe through EU funds, attracting funds. We still invest 20 times more in European funds to build Germany to build, and we are not returning it. That's a fact. It's the current fact that out of 10 billion kuna, 10 billion euros of the projected funds that we can withdraw that it's not even five, six percent seem to me to date the funds of it all, that we're making an annual payment at the level of the Peljega Bridge itself in two years, and we're not paying back that money. These are current facts and to push private projects like here's the reversible Vis Viva and reversible, look at the example. We have something lower with Cetina Korta that's a project of HEP that's held in a drawer, and it's much better for a Chetino area because it controls the floods of the Sinj field. However, it is held in a drawer, and however it is pushed... A hill as a strategic project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't know who the investor is, we know the project. And there's this whole story about me not going back. I expect that the potentials and resources of the Dalmatian Zagora, Dalmatia, Slavonia and Like that we have to use not only to have the beach, but to import tomatoes in tourism pomiras from Italy, but to build and work on the principle of the survival of our people, to subsidize what needs to be subsidized, not to encourage imports. We gentlemen are talking about strategic investments. We don't have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt. Here's what my colleague Stier will tell you clearly how it went. We do not have the courage, regardless of what is called by the European Union, by the Convention of 80 other United Nations. But we did, the prime minister showed up in that case so... At the very least, he's a coward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no courage. He's calling who's in '91. year visited the Republic of Croatia former prime minister or president of Italy. It's our right. We also need to protect strategic investment in the Adriatic Sea, our environment and everything that needs to be protected both on land and at sea and there are plenty of Servant semitronic family ties even for strategic projects that are exclusively visible in the case of the Perun thermal power plant. And here is the trial to be in this important law by the competent minister, quoted by Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73785	Thank you. We've got more replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Davor Eve Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bull, you mentioned a series of things. This last thing you said about an exclusive economic belt is something we've already discussed in this assembly. So I don't think it makes any sense to repeat what we once said on that subject. You also mentioned issues of conflict of interest over a specific case for the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. I have to say here because of the Croatian public, this topic came up for the first time in one of the media in Croatia when the current minister was appointed secretary of state. I wasn't familiar with the situation, and then I immediately called her, and very soon we agreed best to establish everything transparent. The institution that must determine by law had to claim whether there was a conflict of interest. So it's the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Then she's under Mrs. Oreshkovic's care. And then the secretary of state did so and the commission concluded there was no conflict of interest. I must mention it because of the Croatian public because it was so. As far as other strategic investments are concerned, the LNG issue has been discussed here before. We know during Milanovic's government, and we know exactly which minister, and which is why this project has been blocked by strategic importance and geopolitical importance for Croatia. But when the HDZ-MoST coalition came, we started it. I remember excellent co-operation with Secretary of State Cikotić about it, and that's how we got the funding from the European Commission. I think that's the way we have to keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73787	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73788	As for your relationship between you and Chikotić, LNG doesn't hit me at all. My view is clear about the ecological protection of the Adriatic, exclusively economic belt, and I really expected you and I commend you that you were the one who supported the exclusive economic belt and I understand your situation now that you must not speak against the prime minister that he is the one who stops the exclusive economic belt and that he has no courage, that his personal career progress as a career diplomat within the Council of the European Union would certainly say this, that when one moment comes in the future you will see that these words of mine that I have said again about you regarding the exclusive economic belt. As far as Krk is concerned, people have said theirs. I made my point publicly, you can read it in the media. I am interested exclusively in Croatia's economic development of unsustainable development, and I do not know who from Moscow, either from Brussels, or from Brussels, and I am in charge of it, and that is my view clearly. I think that's what we should be working on. I am sorry that you have not responded even more clearly about Mrs Buric Pejnović, who was in your ministry, Mr Kovac. But I expect Minister Dalic to come during the day and clarify that situation that we witnessed in parliament for the first time, her behaviour, and he was not questioned by her as Deputy Prime Minister but Prime Minister Plenkovic and during my presentation and on the mention of the Peruč thermal power plant, you remember as it was, I would now, no matter what I am, according to the lady I have this feeling, would still be within a decent distance because in that way acting in parliament is talking about that the target was affected, that it was an ecstatic conflict of interest that apparently someone did not have at that time strongly and strongly say that conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73789	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73790	Thank you very much, Mr. President. About the so-called. Unscheduled thermal power plants in Peru, my dear representative and colleague Bulj of the 9th Election Unit, you know that the County Assembly and together with the mayor were against building a thermal power plant, which means I'm talking about people from their party called HDZ. We must respect and respect the mood and the will of the people, the people of the field. That's it. Without it, it's not working. Just as it is now necessary to respect the mood of people in the Primorje-Gorski County, although, let's be honest, 4.5 years ago, Mr Milanovic, then the SDP president and Prime Minister advocated the LNG terminal, he said publicly. I'll quote, says: The question is, in 2013, I won't tell you the day, the month when this LNG terminal story will start to close seriously, and the Ministry of Economy, then Mr, was no longer Cacic but Vrdoljak, the Ministry of Qatar discusses the possibility of bringing LNG terminal gas to Krk, the cost-effectiveness study of building LNG terminals will be completed by summer, and then LNG terminal will intensify talks with Qatarski, as well as other potential investors. So, at the time it was for the LNG terminal, it could be floating, today it can't go, it's not right, the people are rising up against it, I'm just saying. But I conclude with the people's will to be respected, and we have shown, I am specifically talking about people in areas where HDZ dominates, it is Split-Dalmatia County, specifically your neighborhood, we respect the will of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73791	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73792	I'll start over. You are from the 9th constituency, and I only see you once a year in the 9th electoral unit, individually when the days of prosciutto are in Drnis, possibly Vrgorec and when Alka is in Sinj. What I see in the 9th constituency, I live in the 9th, I'm born and I die in it, and I'm going to watch the future to stay with my children, if possible. Unfortunately, I'd still say about the Perun thermal power plant, there you were vaguely, vaguely, and I'll make it clear to you that while I was speaking, there was Mayor Boban, the parliamentary representative, and you were as well as you as I was coming out of the pay phone, that you were just saying loudly that everyone was silent and attacking me. And it was waiting. But our proposal, a declaration about the Perun thermal power plant, which has been running around for months until it's been out of line, and when it's signed by 67 parliamentarians, it's a game of PR that I can't get past you, but the fact that I can expect everyone to be an advocate of Andrej Plenkovic, but I really didn't expect you to be the biggest political advocate of Andrej Plenkovic's, and that's your right. You were democratically elected to the 9th electoral unit and, of course, that they are clapping on this defense of this coalition led by Mr Plenkovic, SDSS, HDZ and indeed in this area you will again come looking for support, mainly in the area, I only saw you once in the campaign, I remember in Drnis at the ham fair. That's all I've seen from you and that you've come dressed in a club, uniform sports, like you like. I don't think we could even repeat that village you were in because you simply don't care about the Dalmatian Zagora and the 9th constituency. If it was, we'd be living in it. And that is the problem that was made possible by the Law in the 9th Election Unit, which was cut in half by the Dalmatian Zagora, which is why we are going with a new decision and a proposal. Me and my colleague Pranjiæ will take it out, you will see, as far as the Dalmatian burns are concerned. I can't ask you for support because you don't care about the Dalmatian Zagora, because you don't live in it. ... You're the only one who's gonna ask for a vote. [[The speakers speak out loud. You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73793	Thanks, buddy Bull. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go. Excuse me, colleague Pernar, before you begin to greet the students of the elementary school "Skulinje" from Rijeka together. Give it up! Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73794	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, I have one question that will sound provocative, but it's not a provocation. That's an honest question. Interested whether MOST is at the end for or against building a floating LNG terminal on Krk? I ask this question because Ante Cikotic, who was the secretary of state in the HDZ government, praised the project, actually fought for 102m euros from the EU for the project and because your Minister Panenic, when he was in the government, supported the project as well. In fact, he represented it as a success, etc. And I am interested, and in light of the fact that Strenja-Linić is saying that she is against the floating LNG, so I am interested in what is, in essence, the final position of the Most on the issue that HDZ colleagues consider a strategic investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73795	Here you will hear the answer of my fellow Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73796	Comrade Pernar, thank you very much for asking. I'll give you my position right away, you could read it from the beginning, I'm due to the environmental misunderstandings that came up an interview a month ago that I'm against building what's jeopardizing our Adriatic and of course I'm not going to counseling in either the secretary of the state of America or Brussels, as you went to Ozim's. I don't have that feeling, and I don't care. My interest is purely economic. Croatian interest. I have no other interest at this point, but of course my colleague Ines Strenja-Linić will live there, will be with his people, will listen to the people and will look for environmental aspects like me for a thermal power plant. Of course you shouldn't go to counseling... ask him terminal or you shouldn't in Russian... I would never do it or do it. Of course, and you Mr. Pernar went, so I ask you why you went to which Mr. Azimov? I am absolutely Azimov and his medals from '41. By '45. They're not interested. I'm not interested in Mr. or their gas that they deliver through one of the stakeholders, and they want against another. I am solely interested here in the environmental aspect and Croatian national interest, me as a person. I'm against it, I've said my position a long time ago, Miro Bulj. I don't know who you're for, you'll go first... Look, there'll be time for these confrontations, you'll probably go to Mr Azim's and you'll have your own attitude. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I told you my position, Mr. Pernar, and if you see Mr. Azim, say hello and tell him the Croats won't let him do what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73797	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you have absolutely noticed one provision of Article 7 where again the mountain-mounted area has been pushed out, or we are in the same conditions as the rest of Croatia. I regret that we are not in the same conditions as the rest of Croatia in terms of strategic national projects. I don't see, perhaps you'll see the connect road Knin-Sibenik-Sinj-Dugopolje-Imotski-Zagvozd-Ravča-Drvenik. I go through this area every time I come to this Croatian Parliament, I don't know if I have bad vision or bad eyes, but I don't see any national strategic projects, let alone private projects of strategic importance. But here's Article 7 of the Law. Our criteria aren't reduced so I absolutely understand when you see that we have 143 thousand residents on the 2011 list, so in these six years, 26 thousand people have moved out from Knin to Vrgorec. But because of laws like this that do not pass anything new will not be a problem for strategic investment, it will be a problem for who will work in the area. Because by the time an investment is made by a law like this, it's probably gonna happen in ten years... Twenty-six thousand, they'll probably move another fifty thousand, and the stones that stay behind all of us don't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73799	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73800	You as Mayor of the Dalmatian Fire, I had a little earlier my colleagues came to terms with what you're talking about, and of course I'm sorry that no amendments were accepted for the project documentation both Ravča-Drvenik and from Imotski to Zagvozda and this part of Kukuzovac-Dugopolja were... according to Sinj and this part of the drenj connection on the highway and Knin. Of course it's not accepted because it's important to them when the days of prosciutto are in Drnis or Sinjska alka or in Vrgorec when Tin's days come, that's the problem. We don't have an investment we had a TE Peru that even these people who have OPGs that have potential and resources would essentially destroy with that harmfulness, and the only thing they would have paid for is the more expensive electricity Azimov sends over his pipes, so the gas would be subsidized, but here they banned at least that part of Azim's we said you won't, Mr Azimov, and the same message is in Washington as to my position. So part of the most beautiful part to be associated with the Dalmatian Zagora tourism has lost in four years 26 thousand inhabitants, thanks to those running during the elections, and when they come to this Parliament they don't even know that their voters voted. So from this place he would tell voters you as Vrgorcans, Mr... as Triljan, I as Sinjan, Mr Babić from the Imots' area would call on them never to fall for the scam of voting for people in Dalmatia who do not live in it because they do not care except that they will come to the Spring Days and similar things when they mess up those tables they have and smile at people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73801	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73802	Thank you, Vice President. I've had a lot of years, but really when I listen to all this debate, I don't even know what investment is anymore, or what strategy is, or what in this country wanted in these 25 years, what didn't want. We talk about whatever we're talking about in this House and this little policy as far as I'm concerned, I can see it's all obstruction. We don't need anything, some don't give for some birds, some don't give for the warmth of the lake, some don't finish something they didn't know, others don't have ideas, we just have the idea to talk, and we don't actually start anything. What's the strategy? The strategy should be made in 10, 20 years, 30, 50 years. We didn't make it. We haven't made a strategic track east today. They made the highway to the board strategically and let's do it, I won't even say we did it, we made that and you have a way down. If we had built a thermo power plant, 200 people would have worked from your neighborhoods, from your Zagora, but you won't. We don't want the power, we want the power, we want to pay for it, of course we'll pay for it if we don't have it. Agriculture, we had agriculture and now we don't have a strategy. We threw so many billions into agriculture, and what happened to the individuals took the money, and nothing started, but the question of determination and the rule of law. Gentlemen, without the rule of law, we can't go anywhere. When someone takes money strategically didn't invest what we needed to process it, we don't do it, we tap them. Who left the county, who went from the municipalities to Germany? No one's gone anywhere, just the factory workers are gone and the workers are leaving us and of course we're crying now we don't have a master we don't have this. So we strategically didn't want that either... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73803	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73804	My colleague Misic, I am talking about problems with this law, so here I have said one project that has an investment centre... in Knin where the knowledge needed in this area would be transferred, and investment in this investment centre is projected to be 10.5 million kuna. It's been a project for eight years. The first one was ready. However, the whole area is boycotted. As far as the Perun thermal power plant is concerned, he would take what he has and that's proven professionally. So the environmental impact strategically means that the gas we import from Russia would convert energy and subsidize it. We have legal proposals and I expect you to accept. That means solarists they're already headed for the procedure. So much more efficient and much more countries that have less sunny days because they use it and that would be both ecological, and economical for people with weaker opportunities on their houses if they set up they would also be producers of electricity. We don't need giants to keep a monopoly on energy like that. In a vehicle centre, one person or one group of people is held, and they have public authority. So in energy, we're against monopoly. We are for social economic development through energy and that is possible. It is possible to place solar panels on roofs of houses where the family itself strengthens because social criteria, mostly socially endangered groups, otherwise if we throw 5 kilowatts at 100 thousand houses or households, we get the size of a thermal power plant. It means that this is done in Zagreb, and it could all be obtained for the money we subsidize for... power plants to foreigners a billion and a half kuna a year. In three years we could set up all over Croatia solar power plants for free and would not be dependent, nor would the monopoly have a foreign over themselves, but would be people who would have and I expect you to accept this one law that is affirmative for, we have conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73805	Thank you very much. Here we are to welcome the students of the Faculty of Law from Osijek who came to listen to us before... We move on to the next one. [[Applause]] Here you go. Now we'll discuss individual debates, and the following will be spoken by respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73807	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So when we talk about this law, I think it's best that we try to put ourselves in the position of potential investors and simply through their issues and problems that are bothering us, see if this law answers those questions. And I have no idea at all to criticize the previous governments because the assumption is, after all, and I was an opposition parliamentary representative, is that they wanted to do the best. Did they guess, that's another question. But from many debates today, a man who does not know the situation in the Republic of Croatia would say that at Croatian borders investors are just standing there waiting for someone to lift the ramp and fly in and invest. Unfortunately, it's not like that. And second question, how many of us in the Republic of Croatia today have people who have financial capacity, who have knowledge and experience for some already-investment? So these are all some questions that we have to ask ourselves when we talk about this law. The other thing, whether we wanted it or not, but investments and capital have their own legality. So if someone wants to invest, he is extremely interested in the political stability of the country. What's legal certainty, and then he's only in third place. Why? If he's got a good idea, if he's got a good product, if he's got a good investment, he'll get a profit. However, if political instability is in one country and legal uncertainty is legal, it simply comes to an area that is not certain that it will achieve all its theoretical predictions. And even if everything he meant about production and all if legal uncertainty is created, if the regulations change, he will not get the desired results. The next thing I want to say, which is in this law emphasized, and I'm not going to worry at all that it might have been one way or another, but it's emphasized. They formed the so-called so-called inside. an operational group involving all ministries concerned with legislative coverage of areas that could potentially interfere with an investor. Now, just asking a question is, I like to say it in a colloquial way, if we've aligned everything so-called with this law. tied up laws? And that's the key question. Because we can pass this law, the leader of this group can say that everything is perfect like this and then in implementation we encounter problems because it's forest, agricultural land, local self-government unit something in the spatial plan and a series of other things that we have to do. And that's why, in parallel with this law, I think that even before the Parliament adopted this, that the heads of the administrative bodies were actually the ministries that were listed here in the task force, they had to comb their laws to see how far they were going to be and how no obstacle they would be, so that's the first thing. The second thing, co-ordination between the units of local self-government and state administration, there simply must be that because the head of the unit of local self-government, I am sorry that there are no colleagues Klaric there, he said quite often, the head of the local self-government unit in principle knows best what should be in that area, what are the capacities and what potentials and whether this project can be carried out in this area. That's why it's very important that this coordination, subordination and this is a job that has no political option. The political option in this business is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And now I come to what is very important, for these or those reasons we like to point out that many young people have left Croatia. Unfortunately, however, if we do not have new investments, will we be able to stop that trend? We won't. Take the case of this House, if you don't change the election law here you have 151 MPs and you can talk I don't know how many that should be 120 or 100, but without changing the law there's nothing. So here and here, if we don't create investment areas, we young people don't have a place to work. And we can talk, and that may be Croatia's biggest problem, this unbalanced lack of development, practically everything is pushed into several major centres, and the other areas remain empty and the companies that were once, and such was some concept of economic not economic development that each region had one or two economic operators that were carriers of economic development in that area. Unfortunately, many economic operators have failed and there must be a substituting of other investments that will take that role and open up space for these people in these areas to get hired and where they have existence because every other story falls into the water. And what I was saying back in 2007, that the economic model of economic growth where the most economic growth generates investment in the public sector, so state investment and consumption is a consumer economic model. Unfortunately, the economic crisis came, after the economic crisis we have the case in 2013, I think it was said that state-owned enterprises would be the engine of economic development and then there was an increase in the price of 25%, that HEP would invest, etc. So definitely and now I'm going to try to explain it, if the state is going to be an investor, we're going to have to increase public debt, we're going to have to increase external debt. But if there's room for private investment, a private sector that comes with capital, the state has almost no lower or no risk, it doesn't increase public debt, but actually... what it wants. Now the question is if it's of interest to us is that we're not interested. We can't if someone for this or that reason remembers that something shouldn't be there, protesting I don't want this, I don't want this, I don't want this, I don't have a political option, there's no minister, there's no Deputy Prime Minister, there's no Prime Minister who can do something about it. What does this law tell us? That's why I said I wouldn't criticise any former government, no former minister, because simply anyone in the ministerial chair was in the same skin. But we're practically admitting by this law that institutions are the administrative part that has to do their job is not working. Because if you have a spatial plan in the area of one unit that is consistent with the higher order plans, if it is a project that has no environmental problems, if there is an energy-satisfactory situation in that space, if there is a infrastructure, so what is the reason to say for this project that does not get a building permit within, say, 30, 40 days? I don't see any reason if we've come up with a spatial plan because that spatial plan costs money to understand each other. Here is a colleague, Pranic, who knows how many units of local self-government as one Vrgorac who doesn't have a large budget has to pay to make a spatial plan. So these are facts we must not ignore. And finally, I'm going to finish with that, the other day we had the Law on Professional Education, unfortunately, as today's assembly was empty. And colleagues and colleagues, can we talk about investments if we don't have someone to lean on? We can't because no one will come to invest if there isn't a workforce there that can hire that can meet his technological requirements. And then when we talk about structural education then we finally need to see what Croatia really needs and in such a way simply offer a plan of enrolment both in high school and in colleges because without it we will unfortunately have this destiny that we now have. Now it's just a matter of how ready we are to look the truth in the eye, how ready we are sometimes to take moves that may not be politically acceptable and that will not be clapped, or do something that is cost-effective in the long term and that is good for Croatia in the long term. You'll see if we start thinking that way and thinking that there will be no division in this assembly. It's just that we all live among our fellow citizens, and it's all in our best interests that these people live better. Therefore, if we make a law that goes in that direction, then we will all support it and make sure that we all have a very similar or equal discussion. Of course I will support this bill, but I sincerely hope that those who participate in it will stick to the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73808	Thank you very much. Now we'll see if the others share your optimism. It's got a whole series of replicas, so let's take it in a row. The first was the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73809	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, I would sign anything you say. What you're saying is actually something that shows that as a community, we haven't formed ourselves economically and the law itself confirms that the other laws that should regulate it don't work. We are aware that local self-government, every local self-government, every leader I will say most leaders want a significant capital investment that will create new jobs, invest in changing the spatial plan into other necessary conditions everyone works. However, let's just compare with me in the county we have a business zone in Lovas that is currently empty. The chief, the chief then and now the chief has prepared everything. So there's everything ready from all the infrastructure, from the spatial plan, from good wishes, but it's not enough. Let's get back to Vukovar. Vukovar, which also has a special status where they have significant tax reliefs, where really entrepreneurs in relation to the wider environment can get more favourable conditions, also failed with this lex specialization that has attracted investment. So I'm not even talking about the obstructions that some of them exist, but generally looking at it didn't attract it either. So, however, the national policy that we constantly hear is not proactive enough for investors especially those outside of what we are warned about and many ambassadors who regularly and as ministers have been coming to me, warn that we must be more open and then we have the opportunity to come to us with certain investments only where we have provided the greatest support. So where we were most significant and they take advantage of that period if it's 5 to 10 years old, and after they leave, they go to Serbia that gives us more favourable conditions. It's not just the labour price, it's the other ones where it's down to the local level so I can be able to say open arms. This is how we are blocked with a national policy that is not sufficiently entrepreneurially proactive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73810	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73811	Well, my colleague Panenic, I'm glad we agree on the basic one. But what I have left unclear in your replica is one sentence. Did you mean that tax policy or something? Because the unit of local self-government was probably, and that was also the intention when it started to establish basic or economic zones, the state was giving the country, even helping to equip these economic zones that the local self-government unit had no possibility of having to do with communal compensation and contributions, and this, to attract something. However, when I talked about three very important factors that matter whether the investor will come or not, it is legal certainty. I keep calling, saying it's like this, that it's without arguments, so people just think why I'd come by to invest my money here so that someone calls me and then someone who's not bound by European Union directives isn't bound by certain rules to offer some things that you can't offer him because they'll tell you the other members of the European Union that you're acting past the directive. But I also claim that the frameworks of these directives can make Croatia very interesting to potential investors for reasons, that part I didn't get to touch because I knew it would be, I saw it would be a replica, so I'll do it through replicas, and that's the communal equipment. We can talk today whatever we want, but if it weren't for highways, we wouldn't have this kind of tourist season. We will or will not admit it, but we have become a weekend tourist destination for a large part of the southern metropolis of Budapest, Vienna, Munchen and even Bratislava. People usually sit in the car after work Friday, they sit in the car at 10 o'clock somewhere on the Central or North Adriatic and take a bath on Sunday and go home on Sunday afternoon and he's at work on Monday. So it's one segment of infrastructure, and also let's not forget how much money is invested in politics, I'm not going to pass the time, so I'm going to continue next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73812	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73813	Thank you, Vice President. I am pleased to see that you have once again highlighted the importance of this legal certainty in your debate and that only by respecting and implementing the laws in Croatia adopted by the Croatian Parliament towards all alike can we send the correct message to future investors and investment and agree them in a certain way on arrival in our country. And you mentioned the problem of certain areas, the region where we're practically having a problem with the lack of labour because there's just no people, they moved out. And they moved out just for this reason that you mentioned that local, economic leaders mainly came because of the crisis, and because of the privatisation in the way that we spent it, there was their collapse, there was a collapse, there was a disappearance of those jobs. And what's left here is the last example of Belje when Mr. Todorovic and Agrokor entered it was an investment, but a strange decision was made because there was a country as a production resource, there were workers, there was livestock production, and he completely moved the meat industry to Vrbovac. And here's the fear of all of us coming to such models with new owners after a deal on Agrokor which will be with Belje, Vupik or Pik Vinkovci because there is a real danger if it's a bank or a fund that these and such productions can say that they are invaluable and that in some other regions there is such production, and yet we as a policy have to make our contribution to preserve these productions, and on the other hand, by pointing to future investors precisely those comparative advantages that we have quality soil, that we have quality workers and that we need one such investment that Slavonia will give not only to be a further raw base, but to be a processing site where it accumulates new added value and new jobs, so what do you think about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73814	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73815	Comrade Vlaović, we can take some local, local self-government units with you in Slavonia, we can take northwestern Croatia, we can take one of our fellow parliamentary representatives in the Primorian County where units of local self-government knew what they wanted. They have developed projects regardless, and the most important ones have withdrawn the European Union's funds. Not only now, but they were also very active and were learning while pre-accession funds. So they took full advantage of it, and that's what I was talking about professional education. On the one hand, this is a productive vocational education, on the other hand, we need to educate people who are able to make quality programmes so that we can withdraw European Union funds. Because when you take this moment which is the potential of both the consulting houses and the engineering bureaus and the institutes, the question is whether their potentials and capacities are so great that they can process all the programs. Smaller units of local self-government need help. The important thing is that they have an idea and that someone thinks that idea is good, and they're going to get through it. Because when I talked about what an economic policy used to be, I speak deliberately because it was during the former state. Therefore, there were certain economic branches which, economic operators, were the carriers of everything in the area. But they didn't come about by accident. They were created in traditional occupations in the area. And if you're using that right today, I'm saying what to push some kind of metal production somewhere else when we have Djuru Djakovic. For what? Now it's just a question of whether at the given time and when we bought those armored vehicles, we used the potential and the offset that was agreed on that Djuro Djakovic to exist. It's all big questionnaires now, and also forcing some economic branches where it just doesn't make sense anymore I think it's better to think about something new. But I repeat, if we don't think about how these people have legal certainty, not that taxes change every year, that he doesn't know what's waiting for him in five years. Then let's not expect anyone to come and invest with us, they'll go and invest somewhere else. But I repeat, this law opens up space to open doors to potential investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73816	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you've well framed this issue of public investment. So we must be aware that before the crisis in Croatia, the total amount of investment was around 95 billion kuna. The crisis has done its part, so these investments have fallen to only 65 billion approximately gross, so both private and public sectors. And when we know that public investment is only 8 to 10 billion kuna, then we actually see what's primary. Attract private investment, encourage private investment, improve business climate, do everything that private entrepreneurs actually invest in Croatia. However, this is a problem for Croatia at the moment. And the real question we need to ask is why there are no investments and why the total level of investment is falling, because in the public sector investments didn't drop so much. What fell out of the budget was compensated from the EU funds, not the truth as much as we wanted together and as much as we could. But about that's here. So we now have the capacity to invest annually somewhere, between 12 and 15 billion kunas from EU funds. Unfortunately, we're still under 10 billion. In the coming years if we want to spend money, then we're going to have to invest 15 billion kunas a year and pay off money. And there's a trap for this whole of our current situation. So the only way to compensate for the lack of private investment is that these money that exists in the EU funds is really as fast as possible and as effective as possible. And for the private sector, that's where the government has to work in terms of reforms and everything that's mentioned here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73818	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73819	Thank you very much. My fellow Greek, I am pleased that you have discussed the principle of what I was saying, and that is why I said if we face a particular problem and if we will see this problem without any political noises very quickly we will agree on some things. We also need to be aware of the closure of the Croatian economy that certain models are being spent. He can last five, six, seven, eight at the top of his head for ten years. Now the question is whether or not we're on a train running a new model jumped in the first or fifth year. Now let's take it when the world has found space in large investments in energy. That was five, six years ago. And what are we doing in Croatia today? Well, somebody better try this one, listen to this debate today, and we'll see where we are. Everything that needs to be done is wrong. And that model will be spent in five years. So we won't use it. The question of how ready we're gonna get into something new. So that's the taste of everything. And what needs to be repeated is that legal certainty and stability. Without it, someone with money will not come to invest in Croatia the more problems they already have and with the workforce, definitely has problems. We were able to say a dozen, fifteen years ago that we had an educated workforce and that whoever came with some kind of project to be waiting for him by perfectly educated people from production to engineering bureaus who could handle these projects. Unfortunately, we don't have it today, and that's our fact. And if we look at it that way, then these bound laws that we're discussing, so I said, the other day we discussed the Law on Professional Education, and if we had thought of this, we'd probably discuss it in a different way. Because if our hosts at sea can't find a waiter, I can't find a cook, then it's a clear signal that enrolment in high school must go that way. If Col. Klaric wants someone to invest in the automotive industry, he needs 200 people who are educated, then the logical thing is that the Rijeka schools there have to think about that personnel profile.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73820	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I'd like to agree in one part of your exposure. You mentioned spatial plans, and we all know that for some investments, speed is the most important, or we all say that time is money. But here, in particular, it is easier for us leaders of local self-government units to adopt a budget, to implement that budget, than to adopt a spatial plan. Because in public-legal terms, the public authorities, of HEP, of Croatian waters, are involved, and it is not normal for you to wait more than 30 days for them to appear within the legal deadline, and some of them are not manifest at all. Now, since we have 4200 more people working in public administration in the last three years, it's not clear to me that at least we didn't speed it up. Thus, even the current public administration cannot monitor the requirements of strategic investment. And speaking of strategic investments in the Dalmatian area, I have a specific economic zone in the first phase of 130 million kuna investments currently being designed. Yesterday, at the city council session, we handed over the last five parcels, and that should be another 70 million kuna investment. But, theoretically, there's no way we're going into phase two because of the applicable legislation. So we have a new 10 acres where there are 10 parcels of 200-300 square square meters of private and however many of us, the leaders of the local self-government unit assure the representatives of any government so far that it's important to pass the law that we can rule within the DPU of economic zones, so that owners can develop further investments. Such laws are not passed. It doesn't even matter. Question where am I supposed to report it? At present, only 70 million kuna at the level of all Croatia is intended for the municipal infrastructure of the economic zone. 70 million kuna for all of Croatia. So much for entrepreneurship and the economic zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73822	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73823	A colleague, Pranic, works primarily in the state administration only 8000 people, in the state administration. Wait a minute, civil servants. You have a clear division by law. 180 grand, that's your education and your health. You have an army and police outside of what you're talking about, you have a customs and tax administration that's defined by a special law and you have a judicial part that's defined by a special law. This segment that we're talking about has an interest in what we're talking about is somewhere around 8500 people. And you know this well, that these offices are dislocated, actually distributed to offices in, uh, county offices. And that's what's basically supposed to be closer to local self-government units. And I agree with you completely. The head of the local self-government unit knows best and its representative body which is best in the area. And I don't think anyone has the right not to take it and not support it. But also, if certain parts of it clearly show that local self-government is holding things back for one reason or another, then that state has to act. Is something more state-of-the-art than a local cap, that's the question. So there's no black-and-white story there either. The story is gray because you need to know that in 2004-2008 somewhere nearly 300 units of local self-government made spatial plans that they didn't have. And that spatial plan should be the basis for something. Also, when we talked about economic areas, it's not a problem for you from the state to get a country if you have an investor. Well, in the end, it even says in this Law, and I think there's a law on state property management going that way, if there's an interest in investment that you're going to expand one area. Well, that's even defined by the Law on Forest Land and the Law on Agricultural Land. And you have a law of expropriation that says clearly when certain things can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73824	Thank you. A fellow Thunderbolt raised his hand. You'll probably be looking for a break, right? Do you agree to finish the replicas first, then? [[That's right.]] You got it. [[Intruder: can.]] The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73825	Dear colleague Shuker. Well, here's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to get the time or the movie back. I remember when I was a kid, privatization. I remember the workers who were out of work, I remember the tycoon who took over the Kuna companies, I remember one text from, I mean the Imperial. It said that Kutle bought something for the kuna again and no one knew where it would end. Later I realized what HDZ did in 1994. That he changed the CNB central bank to the exchange office. That simply the Republic of Croatia as a state has stopped broadcasting its money, that we have become addicted to a foreign source of money and that is actually why we have a large external debt, i.e.. one of the reasons. After all, there was also privatisation of the banking system. It was done by the SDP together with HDZ, i.e. More, I think, the SDP was involved in this. And in fact, one exchange rate policy was created, which was, therefore, unreal kuna, created one economic policy that destroyed everything that could be destroyed, one interest policy that came from high interest exchange rates, which beat everything that could be touched, and in the end we found ourselves in the situation that those who shut down the economy, so to speak, that those who sat down everything they could, and now it's both May 3rd and Oily on the extremity, now the Brodotrogir, probably Brodosplit, is going to liquidate the same thing. Now you and that kind of talk to us about some kind of strategic investment. Simply, this plan of yours is, as said by that assistant of yours, Minister Strmoth, just one, as I would say, cover, one. It's an unserious program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73826	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73827	Comrade Pernar, if it were the way you say it, then it would be wonderful and wonderful. However, in 1998-1999, Croatia was in a total economic blockade. You need to pay the salary...... Wait a minute, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was supposed to pay wages and pensions. And now I'm gonna go back to this last thing you said. So, in the last 18 years, for 8 years the SDP has been in power, 8 years it's been HDZ, and the last two years it's been one government, the other government, and at the end of the third government, actually the second government. Rehabilitation programme 2002, 2013 28 billion kuna. The SDP boasted he had restructured the shipbuilding and they thought. I have no reason to say it's not like that. However, problems are structural, unfortunately in those shipyards remain. So he paid both governments at the time of the SDP and during HDZ. But that's 28 billion kuna. And now if those shipyards are not restructured, they will be talked about again in the newspapers and will eventually be paid back by Croatian citizens. But that shipbuilding site, the Ulnik, is a private shipyard. So, let's not, it's easy to talk to these people, and I talked to them, and while I was a minister and in the process of restructuring, they weren't at all pleasant conversations. But it is also not at all pleasant to show on the expenditure side of the budget that there are so many and so many guarantees being protested and that you are so affected by the deficit and then there will be some Pernar or someone else in 5.6 years and say that there has been an increase in public debt, and no one asks whether at that time there was no question of pension payments, no children's allowance, no maternity benefits, no salaries, no wages, no subsidies to businesses, no subsidies to farmers, no subsidies to craftsmen. That's the facts. Now, when you pull things out of context time and space, then you get a sweet story, but it's like sweet tea in the morning until the cup breaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73828	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73829	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, sweet or not sweet story is interesting now to hear how you shared it in a way that you forgot the first 10 years of the Croatian state, and a huge economic problem was created right then and the biggest injustice in Croatia was then created about which it was just before and Pernar talked about. But we have to turn around to see what it is now. For what? You said yourself that there are no investors, that they are not at the border and that they are not waiting at a low start. Why now that Croatia is in the European Union, if you could expect the barriers to be much less than they used to be, why is investment potential in Croatia falling now last year and investment levels by 14%, while 70% of investments relate to the retained profits of Croatian banks or foreign banks in the Republic of Croatia? So, in other words, there is no private investment translated into Croatia. Let's try to find an answer to that question why it's like that. What caused us to fall eight places on the competitiveness list? I can offer one solution or not a solution but an answer. The answer is because we are doing it enough or doing nothing at all for the last year and three months we have lost all sorts of things, to attempts at certain reforms that eventually did not happen at the announcements that Prime Minister Plenkovic told us he would solve to the INA. We're losing now, say Sisak. Why doesn't anyone talk about it? Why isn't he fighting it? We're gonna lose the refinery in Sisak, it's gonna fall... 200, 500, 1,000 jobs. There's nothing to be done on that side. Here's my answer to the crisis we're in right now. It's done little or almost nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73830	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73831	Comrade Maras, I would be delighted if you had discussed what your colleague from the Greek Club discussed as a vice-president and a minister opened up while he was in the government. Some things have stopped and that's something we just can't deny. I wish you'd replicated me that way. And then I could replicate to you in exactly the same way. So I mentioned several times in my debate that I would not talk about any former government because we simply can't, I simply can't think that some minister would do the opposite of what he could do at that time. So I've been discussing it that way all the time. But when someone doesn't have arguments, when someone doesn't have something to brag about, then the debate goes like this as it goes away, and that's not good. Because I said if we're going to discuss this issue with a real desire to do something in Croatia, make sure we don't part ways at all. Maybe in some technical details one way or another. Why? Well, because one, the other and the third, and the fourth, we have experience both at national and local level. Who once was the head of the local self-government unit, who was once the head of the county, who once was the minister or something else, who knows what the problem is because his fellow citizens pull him by the sleeve. And it's not pleasant for the man you live with before and after political dealings to lie and say that it is, and tomorrow you can't look him in the eye. So, I'm talking about such a debate. And I would very much like to say everything that I did wrong in my debate, if you and your colleague Maras had said to your colleague Shucker, or whatever you want, I don't think so, but that should be the way it should be, then I would respect and appreciate it. I have always debated in this House in such a way as to even critically refer to my government. Why? Well, nothing is the Holy Scriptures. But let's have a discussion in this House for the benefit of the people we're here for, and let's not be pathetic about something. This is the law to try to change something. He may not be good, but let's give him a chance and change him tomorrow. And let's get everyone involved in this process to be active in making that law applicable. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73832	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73833	Thank you very much. In your debate, you asked yourself why if we have everything settled, so we have property-legal relations, we have spatial-planned documentation, we have everything in some kind of energy project, it comes down to them stopping or completely disappearing or not. Well, that's why, because politicians say, for example. Now Lngs are simply forgetting or having an ex post mind, so they remember all the reasons why they think something today that they didn't think a few years ago and do everything to convince everyone that what they thought was invalid a few years ago and that's why we have problems on many projects and investments. Because the best thing that can be sublimed here today as a summary of this debate is to wake up a country that attracts strategic investment, let's be energy independent in a way that we don't do anything, or if we do something to make it happen. It's some kind of story we've been listening to all morning on our other side of all those who've had the chance to run the country, and today they have very different opinions on all matters. If there's something written in the spatial plan, and it says when we talk about LNG, then we listen to politicians who say it's not experts who say they're doing documentation for exactly what it's according to the spatial plan and the county and the municipalities. Who do you trust? In the media world, always a politician. Very rarely, expert. And we come to this question, is this law good for us? Well, a lot of people are going to think of him as bad for political reasons because they don't want to be life-threatening, and they don't want to do anything at all because all we care about is promoting this country's imperceptibility and depression. And then we ask ourselves, why do people run from our country or why there's no investment? Just as it may be the greatest sin we've ever committed in this media space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73834	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Boric, remember the story of Lng just five years ago of the Katar delegation, the arrival of a delegation from Qatar to Croatia, all wonderful, all wonderful, everything will be done. And frankly, nobody in Croatia was against that Lng Terminal at the time. Why? So we all forget 10 years ago when the whole of Europe was shaking when the conflict of the Russian Ukrainians caused the gas failure when the pipe from Russia closed at one time and practically half of Europe was running out of gas, then there were talks about alternative directions from Azerbaijan, from Turkey, which I know is where Europe can't be provided. Among other things, this Lng Terminar came. It's not my idea to talk about Lng Terminal. I'm no expert on that. I can speak exclusively from an economic perspective. But if this Lng Terminal is for us to position ourselves on Europe's energy map, then we're fools if we're against it. Because the story of energy won't be focused for five or six years. It's simply in our interest to be someone as interesting as, look what's going on with Janaf. All in silence, but look at how many new oil tanks were made in Sisak so-called. Canti, how much this Janaf is exploiting these oil because it's become interesting because many others want alternative directions for that energy to come to them. And we now have a chance and now all of a sudden we're changing like this, like that. So let the waist say whether it will be on the ground or whether it will be on the water. Let them say finally and let it start to build, and not we get 120m euros from the European Union, not we won't, and then we wonder why we are the way we are. And then we talk more about investment and investors the way we talk about when we need it for daily political purposes. So which fool will come to Croatia to invest 50 or 100 million euros and have someone call him in a year or two for this or just for making something up. It just doesn't work out in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73836	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73837	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You say Mr. Shucker that the proposal for this law should actually look at investors' eyes and it is not true that investors are standing on a ramp, so we wait for them to open up and enter Croatia. So local self-government and this is today during this debate heard and the way they do, what they do, how they prepare their zones and what they actually offer investors. But one thing is forgotten. If you look at the laws that are passed in the Croatian Parliament and look at this public debate, you will see that local self-government appears most often in this public debate by offering certain suggestions, praying for certain things, warning you of certain things. However, the central government would say so, and this Croatian Parliament does not take much account of it. And that's why this gap is happening, in fact, what you were saying today and calling Mr. Davor here or our colleague Klaric, which is actually what bothers them and what happens to them that they can't attract certain investments because they're being held back by the state level. Legal and tax stability, remember the Kukuriku coalition when we spoke only in this tax instability in the Croatian Parliament there were some 47 changes in three years. So legal and tax stability is something that attracts an investor. He needs to know the moment he starts his investment to the very end that's waiting for him in the country where he invests. So that's where we definitely weren't good. What's more important is that we have a certain compatibility. So there must be consistency in the adoption of this law and through legislation which is as a tool for this law, it must not happen that tomorrow when we pass this law, we realize that the other law does not actually suit us or is not suitable for a particular investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73838	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73839	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Babic makes sense that some big investors will first turn to the state. Also, some will turn to you if, from some of your knowledge, the flow of information today is such that you are practically very quickly googling about anything you want, you will contact the local self-government unit directly. But if there's one vertical subordination then there's no problem. So look at where the Longfield didn't come from. On the stoner. Everyone laughed when my colleague Ževrna started with it. Kukuljan's story. Look, they were created as a natural reaction because Split had nowhere to spread. Someone's... That's the same story. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Someone just recognized it could spread there. Or, let's say it wasn't normal, I remember when we started connecting Fažana with Karlovac it wasn't normal for us to have drilling in the northern Adriatic and that gas from those wells through Italy, Slovenia is coming to Croatia. And why didn't someone do it before I don't know, but I know when we started that project that it was a laugh. But from Karlovac, we are heading towards Split precisely towards a new energy drive primarily by the EU because of the energy instability that was then imposed because of certain political conflicts and this pipeline that was made according to Dalmatia was designed for some future time to be used. There was a story about LNG's terminal, everybody accepted it, and now all of a sudden for some political reasons, that's what I haven't been able to do, you don't even make it. If that's what we're going to think, then unfortunately, it's hard on us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73840	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Loncher.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73841	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Shuker, I agree on very much of the allegations that you have actually made, however, there are several things that need to be pointed out here, especially when it comes to building permits for investors that are facing a lot of problems. My advice or suggestion to this ministry is that such investments are subject to immediate authorisation, that the public legal conditions mentioned earlier by a colleague from Vrgorec be tried to issue a shortcut when it comes to the necessary permits, why? You have at 5:6 a.m. the exact same public legal conditions and they know no matter what the spatial plan is issued, which is also the plan of the second row because it is unnecessary, in my opinion if the plan has been obtained, and is, all the necessary conditions, then there is no reason to repeat the same conditions on this same project or municipal infrastructure. And it's a long-term torment where investors wait a year, maybe more to get a building permit to invest their resources in this project that they actually imagined. And these other things that are... I have to say that the development of the economy is one long-term process, and we have to understand it as people, you can't build a business zone today and expect it to suddenly have results within 3 or 2 years, that's impossible, that's a process that lasts for ten years, which is only then trying to produce certain results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73842	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73843	Yes, my colleague, Loncar, I unwarrantedly dropped you out of this list of people, and it's a good thing that you called in a replica and that someone who wants to encourage the development of his unit of local self-government, said certain problems. But also not just you, but a lot of colleagues have unfortunately faced that someone accused you of raising someone and you were only raising so much that someone came to work there. And now in the end, I want to highlight one project that I particularly like, which they simply did not recognize at the state level, but they just calculated how much money would be spent and that it would never be returned, which is the Gaženica project in Zadar. So the units of local self-government saw what could be and what the potentials were and what someone from the top was looking up at what is now happening in Gaženica and practically very little is happening. Now let's look at six, seven years ago, back who was right, those who, 14, 15 years ago, had a vision of what Gazenica is, it's just one example. The Zagreb-Split highway for many who spoke of economic justification would never be finished. But the highway as a basic infrastructure project for tourism development, for the survival of the population in Lica and Dalmatia, is of invaluable value. There's just no price. Here's what I specifically pointed out to you, because I remember the debate here, and in the end, that dock building wasn't done the way it was done differently because it was said it was a lame thing, it was a waste of money, and in 3.4 years when it was the starting port for many cruisers, then the ones who talked about it let them bang on the head. But someone 14, 15 years ago, maybe more, had a vision of what might be in that space. It speaks of the importance of the unit of local self-government of some projects because the one living in a certain space can only see what's good about it, which is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73844	Thank you very much. Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73845	We're moving on to a debate. Dear Mr. Ivan Pernar, please. Comrade Pernar, you're up for an individual debate, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73846	Dear ladies and gentlemen, this Strategic Investment Act will not solve the problem of inviolability of investment in our country. The root of the invaluability of investment is deep and it is actually what I would say is clouded or its embryo is in the very creation of the Republic of Croatia when the state decided not only to liquidate the production economy with tycoon privatisation and giving its capital to a few similar people like Todorovic etc. already the state and monetary policy, i.e. by turning the Croatian National Bank into a currency exchange office, has disabled every work, every development and in fact destroyed the economy until the end. In other words, even if the corporate administration is fair, even if it works for business interest, even if the owner wants to do this monetary system makes it impossible for him to do so. Why? Because the exchange rate policy makes imports cheaper than domestic production on the one hand and on the other hand the cost of capital, i.e. the price of money interest in Croatia is very high, and it is high because the CNB is exchange rate. The CNB means it doesn't directly lend money to business banks and then the ones who need it, but the CNB is asking domestic business banks to be in debt outside foreign business banks for foreign currencies. Then in the CNB foreign currency is changed into domestic currency and therefore all loans in Croatia or let's say 90% or even dare to say to legal persons close to 100% bound by the currency clause. Such a monetary model in which money is an external debt that flows into an internal debt, in which it always needs, in which all money is created by taking foreign loans, and all these loans should be returned increased for the corresponding interest, this model is simply not sustainable, this debt doctrine is actually dared to tell us to take us to a debt Bob track and from that debt Bob track is the only way out. Breaking is what we're going through today. It's a downfall in employment, a downturn in industry. I'll give you an example if the government already boasts, the story of industrial production, so look at the situation in May 3rd, look at the situation in the Uljanik, look at the situation in the Sisak refinery, look at the situation in Petrochemia Kutina, these are all large entities that are either before collapse or close. Here's another example of Brodotrogir, so dear ladies and gentlemen, if Croatia shuts down the Uljannik shipyards, if it shuts down May 3rd, if it shuts down Brodotrogir and eventually agrees that Brodosplit does not produce large ships, so what do we have from the industry? If Petrochemy and Refinery go to Sisak, this government implements a deindustry program. Once in socialism were industrialization programs that were, if I'm not mistaken for five years, this HDZ government in its term of office in four years will actually deindustrize Croatia and break our country economically. What I do not understand and why voters support this policy is not clear to me how someone can defend that policy in the Parliament or convince the Croatian public that it is good and right. Okay. you say, of course, that it is good and correct, but then I ask the question, if your policy is good and correct, why are the lines in front of the soup kitchen, why, when you walk around the centre of Zagreb every 25m, you stumble on beggars, why, if your policy is good, why are they digging all over the country in containers from Dubrovnik to Ilock? I have a further question, if your policy is good why are two-thirds of the loans given to legal persons unable to return? You have a terrible credit crisis. Why are private people getting more and more occupancy, why are there 330,000 citizens in the blockade? What are your solutions to this problem? You don't have the solutions to the liquidity problem, or the money, or the credit crisis for nothing. Your politics, gentlemen of HDZ, comes down to desert demagogy. After all, if your policy is good why do young people flee the country, why can't they see the future in our country? And if your policy is good ladies and gentlemen, then why doesn't three-quarters of our citizens support your government's policy? Why is it record low for you as HDZ and your Prime Minister Plenkovic? You should ask yourself that, but instead of asking yourself that, you continue with cosmetics, you continue with the demagogue solutions, the solutions condemned by your Secretary of State Marin Stramota when he resigned as Assistant Minister. He said your measures were folklore. And ladies and gentlemen, the same thing he told you in the government building I'm telling you right now here in the Parliament, this strategic investment bill is a folklore and he's not going to solve anything and we're going to keep economic regulations on our countries. The only solution, they ask often, and what are your solutions, the solution is the monetary reform of ladies and gentlemen, the solution is to abolish the currency clause on loans, the solution is that money is no longer privatised by the banks, but that the state of Croatia takes over the creation of money, without it leaving this situation, you are all aware of it. Without changing exchange rate and interest policy, where's our future? But you ignore that problem and stick your head in the sand. Why? Because you can. Because no one can do anything to you, you have most, you hold all institutions, you have 76 plus a few more ears that are willing to support you even if they see you leading us all to ruin they will still support that policy. Why? So because they don't care where they end up with four million citizens, they don't care what our country's future is but look only at themselves and their private interests. And that's the policy of clientelism and nepotism that you advocate. Where will this policy take the Croatian people? You claim a better future, so give people a look into the truth, look at young people leaving Croatia and ask them to the young or young girl why you're leaving, if you see the future here. And only then would they understand what people think about your politics. Ask the people who dig through the trash what they think of your policy, ask those who freeze in front of the soup kitchen in these polar colds, but that's not what you're interested in. You're only interested in your interest and your profit and it's a picture of your entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73847	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We have replicas, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73848	Dear colleague Pernar, as far as the diagnosis of the state of our country and society is concerned, I cannot agree with you. Here's the thing today, we've got the pucks that we're the worst structural reforms in Europe, but other than the diagnosis of the situation that we can all agree with, so I don't think it's pleasant to tell our colleagues that Croatia is in excellent shape, how reforms are being implemented because they know that's not true. But we need to offer some concrete solutions. We are just doing it through a platform called the Uprising Movement, within which we have several pillars of entrepreneurship, public administration, justice, demographics, energy, we offer concrete solutions. Here we have yesterday referred to the procedure of two laws of the judiciary which were and in the public debate for a long time, while on the other hand we have a situation that we will have here in the late hours of some kind of minor reform from the judiciary as they call it. If it's a mini reform, if it's something that the rulings want to boast about doing something right, I don't know why we don't discuss it in the morning or in the day while the whole public is watching and while this Assembly is being followed, but obviously there's nothing out of these reforms. And here I would like to invite you to support these laws that Most will recommend to support them, we will also do all the good that you and other colleagues of the opposition also propose to support, but I think that this apathy in society is so great that we should not just talk about problems and what is bad in Croatian society, because this will cause young people to leave the Republic even more. But we must offer some hope that Croatia can be better in the Republic of Croatia and that Croatia can be one orderly country in which the judiciary will be effective, in which entrepreneurs will be released from these powerful tax presses to which they are exposed, in which the public administration will be effective and at the service of the citizens, and here in this direction should be the action of our opposition. Not just in terms of criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73849	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Answer. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73850	Dear Representative Grmoya, I agree with you that criticism alone is not enough. However, we have had a situation where the government lives in a state of denial. So, the government claims that no, that it is not bad in Croatia, that in Croatia it is actually good. That it's not really a problem for the citizens, it's a prime minister. That he's having a hard time. That we're all in some kind of delirium, that we have what I know, I don't know, a fixation on negativity, and it's basically all positive. That we're pessimistic, and they're optimistic. However, our people, or citizens, are not pessimistic because they are generally, I don't know, negatively inclined. Some of them may be, but the vast majority aren't. The vast majority would be optimistic if they believed this government and its politics. But there's one thing I'd like to ask you, Mr. Grmoya, to answer, because this is a really crucial question that's being broken, and the question is, you're saying that you're for investment, you're pushing investment, is the floating LNG terminal project one of the investments MOST continues to support? Here, it's actually a concrete question that I have and I asked my colleague Bulja and I asked him for an answer, and he didn't give an answer – the answer. He didn't say MOST was for or against. He said I'm personally against it. But I'm asking, Mr. Grmoya, is the MOST position on this matter? If there is no common position, then say openly: we do not have a common position, not that it writes MOST against LNG in the media, and it is not really against LNG floating. So, here, please, a concrete answer to the question of whether it's MOST for or against floating LNG? Now the Rules of Procedure won't allow you to answer me, but when you get the word, when there's a chance to argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73851	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73852	Mr. Pernar, dear colleague, we're talking about the Investment Act. We mention mountain-mounted areas, we call on all those to be subsidized i.e. to encourage and to what amount. However, we are one basic law in no way in this Parliament to come and, of course, me and my colleague Pranic are in the works, we are close to the end of this law and we will let him go into the process because the mountain-mounted areas literally don't have enough money to clear the snow that falls in their territory, let alone for some others, do not have these fiscal capacities. The fact that this law, such as it is very important for investment, should be Minister Martina Dalic here because we are talking about one of the most important documents regarding the economy, which means investment, these are investments, these are criteria that are at all prescribed as the harmonisation of some with European directives. However, it is realistic not to promote investments that are ecologically justified, such as the Perun thermal power plant that was not, which I was against and against every single project that you said just before. I am also voting against the budget while I was in the majority, against every project and so on, until the LNG terminal is proven to be clean, and according to all indicators it is not clean and it is publicly and loudly said by Slaven Dobrović in his position, a man who is of the profession, one of the most esteemed people in this area in the field of profession. When the chlorine question is resolved, it's a question of everything. And that, if I'm going to support it, I've made it clear so far 20 times here. So do you believe in the legitimacy of every representative in particular, or do I now have to repeat it again? I think I've made my point publicly and loudly, of course, as you say. I am not contesting it, but here I am asking you a question whether Martin Dalic, Minister of Economy, should be on this very important issue... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73853	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73854	Dear Representative Bulj, I agree with you on something, I don't agree with anything. I mean, some things I agree with, some things I don't agree with. However, you say Slaven Dobrovic disagreed with the project on behalf of the club. Yeah, but it's the key to making a decision. So when you were working the floating LNG terminal, you supported it. You didn't say when we see the studio, and then we'll say we're for construction. No, I don't. Minister Panenic said: we are going into construction, we are starting with the first phase of that floating terminal, we are going to get this FSRU some tanker and whatnot. That's what Minister Panenic said. Your Minister, i.e. Secretary Ante Cikotic, who was state-owned, not only said MOST was for it, but he said: I am the one and my team that pulled out and encouraged the European, 102m euros to build that floating terminal. Well, he knew then what that floating terminal looked like. And what's happening now, when you saw that actually that floating terminal is a bad ecological, now you see that, we're against it. But the key question is this: the key question is that you're in power today, so if you say what you're saying now, if it's not environmentally acceptable or you'd just say it's a strategic investment, it should go on. And that's the problem, actually, of the Most Independent Lists. When you're in power, then you're for real estate tax and then you're for a floating LNG terminal, and when you go into opposition, you're suddenly against real estate taxes and a floating LNG terminal. And that inconsistency is actually the key problem of your political option. You support the budget, and then you don't support it, etc., just depending on whether you're in power or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73855	I thank my colleague Pernar. Next replica... Mr. Bull, please. [[I don't understand.]] In this way we cannot behave in the Croatian Parliament, if you want to talk to a colleague, then please get out of the plenary hall and talk outside. We continue with the replicas, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73856	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, you have the CNB exchange book agenda, and I have the CNB's agenda to hold the loyalties to banks that lead citizens and businesses, so that's my agenda, and now I'm going to tell you that what you're saying about the exchange book is I'm going to tell you what the head of the CNB's sin is. The main sin of the CNB is that he holds... Croatian citizens, so how did they take them? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Croatian citizens were driven by the agreement that the interest rate was changed by the bank's decision, and then they would change interest upwards when they liked it and how they liked it. And we have ruled that it is unfair and illegal. And what were they doing with companies? They would arrange the interest rate properly, they would write in the contract, the interest rate consisting of a fixed part of two and an applicable parameter, and that variable parameter at that point was 3.4, so the interest was 5.6%. And then the parameter would start to drop and the parameter would fall to two, to one, to zero, so the interest should be two percent. So what does the bank do? She won't apply what she signed, she signed the contract and wrote that she would use 2+ parameters and then says no, now she's no longer 2 + parameter but 5 + parameter. And yet again it increases the interest rate willingly but this time not by its decision but by disrespecting the contract in fact. And all that CNB's watching, and he's not treating the banks. You don't define and you can't act like this, you say you shouldn't act like one, and the CNB says they can act that way. And now we should have that Governor Vujcic re-elected for him as governor. And that Vice Governor Frass to keep him a vice governor. Well, if we choose them, then these bank investments will still be illegal. That's why we have to change them, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73857	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Answer, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73858	Dear Representative Alexic, why is the CNB doing this? It's also a question of why Israel is tearing down the Palestinians' houses. Because he can. Why can't he? Because the CNB statute that is in line with the Statute of the European Central Banks is such that the governor can't be replaced in the Assembly, we can't say here ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for the recall of the Governor of the Central Bank although the central bank is the fourth government, there's the Government, there are courts, we have the President, we have the repressive apparatus, we have the judiciary, but the key component is the one holding the money because the one holding the money, it actually controls all these levers of power that I counted plus the media. And as long as the CNB statute will not allow that governor who does not work in the interest and benefit of the Croatian people, and the rest of our country's inhabitants, to be removed, he will behave accordingly. He doesn't care either. He's literally Mr. Alexic, I don't care. For five years he was criticized, he laughed for five years. Why? He knows they can't change the gas. And what's terrible is that the Croatian people don't realize that by supporting such a policy of the CNB that tolerates actually the banks of the robbery of citizens, it actually works itself over the head. So the Croatian peoples, by supporting those who hold a ladder to thieves, are banks, you yourself, Croatian peoples, or you agree to your robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73859	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the final word has a respected colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73861	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your assistant. Here, at the end of this debate, I would like to say immediately that the views expressed by Slaven Dobrović at the beginning of this session that I am saddened that all day, one of the most important and crucial laws for the development of the Republic of Croatia did not appear at any time and we called her as Parliament's economic minister Martina Dalic, because she should be talking here about what she was up to now because everything she was doing was essentially against the interests of strategic investment. In fact, it was a good guess at the damage to the Republic of Croatia, it was visible and clear when we look at only its reaction when the question was asked to Prime Minister Plenkovic about the Peru power plant where she reacted without a question, it was one precedent in this assembly, one shameful precedent, the way of communication was at the level of savagery, simply showed her face, a face to protect a large capital that was interestingly connected through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where Mr Stier and Miro Kovac, they knew better that matter, in the replica, were not quite literally clear, mainly Mr Kovac where there was more spokeswoman Andrej Plenkovic. So he would once again express his dissatisfaction in front of the MOST club of independent lists because of the lack of this important law by Martina Dalic. We are talking here about something that we want to bring into line with the EU acquis. But the fact is that here we mention mountain-mounted areas, we simply don't have a law that I've been promising for two years on mountainous areas. As I said, we will give the MOST Club and our colleague Pranic as we come from these areas into the process and not only this decision on setting up advice for the Dalmatian Cooperative but for the whole area means mountainous and forgotten areas and is visible now and in the Gorski Kotar. Literally local self-governments don't have their fiscal capacity to clear snow, to simply force them and mostly independent to be, to worship the prime minister, but that's not good. It is not good that the mayors must worship the prime minister, that their projects he accepts or does not accept but simply needs to decentralise everything physically and in human resources towards these parts. And talk about capital investments in Croatia, here in Dalmatia, there should be capital investments from where I come from, these are the meaning of joints on the Drniš highway, Knin, Sinj, Imotski and Ravča-Drvenik where the island of Hvar would be connected and touristic enough, and Immotically this area was also attractive, Dalmatian Zagor and not only that but also Hercegovina would be in the vicinity and we know that this is a strategic national interest, to preserve people in the back of the coast where Croatia is the most territorially sensitive because it is the most important border and we know that from Herzegovina people are evicting, simply, even though it is only when buses and when it comes to them when elections, where they are called for patriotism, otherwise these people are forgotten when they are concerned with these strategic projects, and these are also the projects that are relevant to mountain-mount areas. And I expect you secretaries to pass this message to Minister Dalic that she was obliged to come to this Strategic Investment Act. I'd have a few questions, of course I'd be within a decent distance of her, say I wouldn't let her threaten me as a last resort. But here I simply expect you as a secretary to clarify the meaning of this law, if the laws that are very important for these areas are because we do not have strategic investments. List these strategic investments,... Vis Viva projects that make other projects much more important and more important from HEP and strategic ones that are important, because this law that the MOST proposes, energy, these solarians that would be much more significant, would be much more independent if each family had 5 kilowatts, 100 grand, that's 500 megawatts, so that's the size of the Peruca Termopower Plant, that you fellow parliamentary representatives would accept that no longer hold the doors of Croatia, the energy system, but simply to be independent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the sun, we have the nature, we have all the elements that you say, I won't even talk about health care. I was just talking about a university in Knin, about the problems of their innovation centre, a project that has been waiting for years but has been deliberately boycotted and this huge project, 10.5m euros in Knin. Who's boycotting him for what? No one alive knows, interest groups of course. And while we have spent only 10% of the EU's budget, the EU has spent on projects. We therefore invest 10 times more in Europe, in their projects through membership fees and the rest, and 10 times less. Once again, we express our disappointment over the ministry's inconclusiveness but here she was not the minister of the economy that is most responsible for this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73862	I thank my colleague Bulj for respecting the weather. We have a few replicas, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73863	Dear fellow Bull, you're right about these investments, but as I pointed out, I'm already a colleague of Pernar. We have today's report showing that Croatia is the last to implement structural reforms in the EU. And MOST right through its rest movement stands for it to facilitate investment, to facilitate our entrepreneurs but real investment, healthy investment because we can't be against everything. And in addition, we have reforms regarding public administration and as regards the meaning of I said entrepreneurship, I think as many as 28 measures prepared by colleagues Ninčević-Lesandric and our expert team, judicial reform where we have two laws addressed and other laws that we will refer to. Two and a half months of public debate. If we had a situation that meant to me here after this law we'd be discussing laws, it's so-called. The minimum judicial reform where we have six laws that have been for 15 days I only think in public hearings, just 15 days. And it's Christmastime. And it wasn't meant to be on the agenda at all. And we'll see how we stand by that fact. But what is certain is that this government has neither the courage nor the will for real reforms nor the attractment of investments, nor the discharge of entrepreneurs, nor the meaning of a more quality, more efficient public administration at the service of citizens, nor energy, energy projects. We also have one Law on Microsolars that would practically eradicate energy poverty and make Croatia an energy independent in the right way. And it will all be laws that will come here before us and we will see how our colleagues vote on these laws. But you definitely said it yourself from Peru to other harmful projects it's the only thing that pushes and all that's good, which is healthy trying to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73864	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73865	A colleague of Grmoy's on the seriousness of strategic projects was to be spoken naturally by the Minister of Justice, i.e. Croatian Prime Minister Martin Dalic. I say the diameter when not by chance because I asked this question, which you're talking about the thermoelectric diameter, gave me the answer, simply, a copy, i.e.. Deputy Prime Minister, I don't know what to call her anymore. But when it comes to serious issues, when it comes to strategic projects, she's gone. Of course, the Perun thermal power plant, her and her lobby, is connected to the Foreign Ministry or... I don't know who and the interest was that the gas that came to Dugopolje had because there was no industry, there was nowhere to be used, through a chimney in 109 meters wide 9 meters, 700 kg of smoked, the gas needed to be in the air, of which 2% of the toxic gases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is important that someone earns on this gas that we import and then called for energy independence, nor was it energy independence, because it was a bargaining, because even the gas that we import from Russia was also subsidized by the government of Vrdoljak and because of that they were in the power of the Peruća thermal power plant, through gas is connected from import lobbys and energy lobbies to the damage of the Republic of Croatia. And of course, that microsolars are this strategic branch where, if there are 500 megawatt thermopower plants, if we have 100,000 roofs per 5 kilowatts, it's 100,000 people who, not becoming a social category, produce electricity, and these conditions we have. We have conditions for much more, and this is our law that introduced the Bridge, Ante Chikoč to the movement and as... entrepreneurship, our colleague Lesandric, and as for the judiciary as presented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, everyone who presented our initiatives, I think it's a step towards, to boldly invite people to stay and fight in the Republic... My colleagues, Pranic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73866	I thank my colleague Bulj, my colleague Bulj, for your reply. The next answer to the replica, we're going to compensate a little bit for your time, which you've gone over two times... Thank you very much. You're very kind. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next replica, dear colleague Ante Pranic, come in. [[Intruder Bulj: You have violated the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73867	Thank you, Mr. President, here... I'll be brief, so feel free to take you, based on my replica, time taken away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree with your presentation and the question arises whether the public administration in Croatia for strategic investment in Croatia, when we know, that during the Bridge Minister's administration an action plan was adopted for the development of the public administration of Croatia, in Croatia where 830 million kuna was secured, where we had one pilot project up to 45 million kuna, e business. And when we look at our competing countries in the neighbourhood, Slovenia, there are 6% of GDP when we look at some others, Romania of 7%, where they have a high degree of digitisation of the e-business management process, with us another building permit carrying a trunk of paper, they surrender. They have to carry two people to give up one such strategic project at all. How can we be competitive with the countries in the environment at all, how can we attract investments, when we remain in the 20th century while other competitive countries around us are trampling and in the 21st century in the digitalisation process, as far as strategic investments are concerned, in the area of the Dalmatian Mountain, I will repeat it once again, the state has only made 70 million kn, cumulative for the whole of Croatia, as regards the infrastructure of entrepreneurship zones, and we all know that economic zones are the only places where they can emerge very quickly and all investments can be realised, which can create jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73868	I thank my colleague Pranic for this compensation of time, so Mr. Bulj can answer in full time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73869	Thank you very much for the extra time. Col. Pranic is clear that what the Ministry of Administration did during the Bridge's minister said it was a problem to be a decorated ministry, to get fired by those who don't deserve to do their job, because we know we have a surplus, we don't need to be fired, but the fact that it's a bulky system and they're voters. And the fact that in this way HDZ loses its voters, it is clear to everyone who day and of course it is one of the reasons why our economy helmets, because it is very difficult to come or entrepreneurs, very hard to come because of a troupe of administration without which it is not digitized, which much simpler sea problems. However, this is what should not be moved, it must not move in the structure of the Republic of Croatia, into the county, which has nothing to do with anything, let's say, here's only the Dalmatian Zagora is divided into 2 parts, Drnski, Kninsko end is divided into 9 constituency and Sinj, and Vrgorački and Imotski end is in 10 and the County of Split Dalmatinska means, Vrgorac, Imotski, Sinj, but it is Sibenik-Kninska, meaning Knin and Drniš, so they have been clouded on purpose, mainly in those edge rural areas, that they no longer know who and where. And it would be natural for that to change and for people to have their own representatives in Parliament. At this point, there were more of these representatives from those areas who had to fight for strategic investment, but should be in this Parliament, however. These were the people from Zagreb, who were on the list, in our area, 9 and 10 he is now parliamentary representatives, today I have repeated several times the only thing they know to come to Sinjska alka, at the drjski prosciutto fair in Vrgorac, is also just well the same quality prosciutto and that is all they make. And they ask for votes, when they get votes, they don't fight for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73870	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Ivana Lesandric Ninčević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73871	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, when we talk about strategic investments, I think it is very important to stress that it is not the point that investment becomes strategic thanks to some law, law terms or decision or not to give God over the link, as it is with us. The point is to create conditions for an entrepreneur, to be able at all, to propose investment as a strategic one. In order for this entrepreneur to be in that opportunity, he needs to be founded, he needs to be in business, he needs to survive, he needs to deal with our system, he literally needs to beat our system in order to be successful, that only then would he be able to propose his investment for strategic. And speaking of these terms, then it's very important to mention the report that we have from... which says, as regards measures to improve the business environment, they have been estimated to have made some progress with regard to reduced administrative burdens and parafiscal burdens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't need to make any progress, we need reforms to make progress. Speaking of these reforms, I haven't seen them yet, but it's easy that I haven't seen them, but here, the European Commission doesn't see them. Well, here we are, in our staying movement, the initiatives stay here, we will have in this assembly a series of proposals and reforms, and we hope that the ruling majority, when she was already unable to propose it, will actually have the opportunity to vote them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73872	I thank my colleague Lesandric-Ninčević. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73873	So simply in Croatia you come to strategic investment. You're at the Foreign Ministry, your husband's starting a company called e.g. Vis Viva and this project, you copy something from HEP, something through... but the co-owner, of course a HEP member, is not bad with the HNS to pass this strategic, mainly gas to pass strategic because it is important that this gas be a thermopower plant and, of course, without any environmental studies, professions, without any rating of the championship, in the 315 billion euros provided for in Juncker's this, fund, of the so-called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Union Fund for Strategic Investments Europe and one in two pass through such a project. So it's enough to be, in this case, the husband of the foreign minister and that she's very good at taking it out, of course, to be connected, maybe even to go for coffee with this, the Russian or American ambassador, it doesn't matter at all, and that's enough for you in us to have a strategic investment. Of course, all the laws that we propose in this Parliament, what we need to accept well, I know that you have put great effort on these laws regarding entrepreneurs and I believe that the laws are acceptable and I hope that in the public debate our colleagues will see that this is the right way. Also, in energy, also in demographics, these are essentially acts that support both demographic experts and is not really what folklore says, as the secretary at the ministry of social care said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73874	I thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you were talking about Gorski kotar and investments and a lack of investment in these parts. Here, I often know how to come to this beautiful end, but there's one fact that politicians only remember them when there's some elemental accident like flood or snow, and when there's really no such thing as a real need to live there. And now we have one fact that Milanovic's still power has made that decision that they actually get out of their most important natural resource, and that tree, so they've assigned it to the Croatian forests, and this power has not changed so far, and now they've lost the resources that mean life to them. These Croatian forests, they mercilessly pruning forests, thus our quality trees go to Italy, and we come as a product in the form of expensive Italian furniture that we buy. I think it's one big problem that no government has ever properly approached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73876	I thank Mr. Sladolev. Answer. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73877	A colleague of Sladolev, in Croatian politics, is a simple way of managing. So the central government doesn't want fiscal decentralisation and of course in that in Gorski Kotar, Vrbovska and others or Knin, it doesn't matter, that these local leaders don't have freedom because they simply depend on them on the central government and have no fiscal capacity. Tax on profit... Mountain-mounted areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they don't have enough money to clean snow, let alone something else. To have free textbooks, to have health care and, of course, to find some kind, to seek the Messiah, this-that, to gather these people together and to worship the prime minister to exercise the right to what they have. I'm gonna be in the Gorski Kotar tomorrow. I was last week. I don't have any problem with that. But they move people to worship authorities because of those funds they do not intend because the central government wants Prime Minister Plenkovic to worship them. He does not want the mayor to be independent, he does not want the mayor to have decentralised assets and fiscal capacity, that he has profit tax to stay with him and that he has enough funds for the municipal infrastructure, for the waterbending, for transport to secure. No, he wants to, such counties don't want to control homes of health, schools. Why? These are their levers simply they control the entire system and if you won't listen, of course they'll tell you what you've done, this-that's simple from mayors, mayors, councilmen, people who deal with local politics want to make servants of emperors who are in the Ban Courts in power. It is the continuity of politics in the Republic of Croatia and because of that and is like this in these areas and, in this way and is a demographic disaster, everything goes, here we see only in Dalmatian Zagora in the last 4 years 26 thousand people have gone away and mostly young. So that's catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73878	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. We have the final word. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague, just wait a minute... Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, the closing statement of State Secretary Mario Antonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73880	The Honorable Chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here after a long day we also came to the conclusion on the final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. What I want to say in this short final presentation, I would like to thank first of all everyone who has been constructively involved in this debate. I also thank everyone who followed that debate, and I believe that at least in the part that dealt with the law itself was of sufficient quality. I would also like to inform you that we have accepted the amendment to Article 15. The Legislative Committee, because it is about one nomotechnical change. We are all aware, therefore, that the need to strengthen economic, stronger economic activity is absolutely necessary in the Republic of Croatia, and without good, quality investments of any foreign, whether domestic or not we all know it will not be. We are also aware of the enormous bureaucracy in Nice Ours and the need to reduce all this, to remove administrative burdens and bureaucratic obstacles to the implementation of general business on which this ministry and this government are working, as well as in the investment section. The absolute and important, i.e. the most important task of this law, is the purpose of existence that the Strategic Investment Projects Act simplifies the process of realisation and investment, and this new law is also about compliance with one of the EU directives. I would just like to point out for the end, ten years ago, when the Republic of Croatia had 3% GDP growth, it was generated by external debt and internal consumption. The growth in 2016 was primarily generated by exports of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the way towards a better economy of the Republic of Croatia and this law should help. And finally, my personal opinion begins and ends with people. In every procedure, in every process in every business we do. We do it quality and good and make the Croatian economy better for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73881	I thank the Secretary of State. We have one replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73882	Thank you very much, esteemed secretary. Here's a very important document, the law. I'm sorry again that it's not on behalf of the MOST Club that it's not the Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic here. I'd be sure she's the most appropriate minister to explain this law and give us answers. But here, in the end, I can only tell her that as far as Peru's dominoes are concerned, it's preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73883	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for this replica. Does the Secretary of State want to answer? Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I thank another secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship, the craftsman, Mr. Mari Antonic, and his associate, the head of the sector at the ministry of Mr. Robert Blažinović, for the reasons of the law. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73884	Final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 223, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendment submitted and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 98 for, 5 abstentions and 17 against the passed Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73885	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Courts Act first reading, P.Z. No. 298. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, P.Z. No. 301st and - Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, First Reading, P.Z. No. 300. Based on the draft working body of the Assembly and the agreement of clubs, the proposal is to bring these points of the agenda together and discuss them. Does anyone have anything against it? Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73886	In front of the MOST Club because of the importance of these topics, it would not be good and we are against the separation of these topics, to be the point of the agenda point at point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73887	Most clubs agreed, including your club Mr. Bulj, on the basis of Article 247(3). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73888	I'm on behalf of the club saying my position publicly. I don't know who agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73889	You within your club agree who represents you yesterday, today, and who will represent you tomorrow. So when this was discussed, a decision was taken unanimously to bring the debate together. If you are not satisfied with my answer you can submit a request to the relevant Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure where you will receive a credible interpretation. So we move on with our work. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the competent committees on legislation, the competent committees on justice. Does the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Minister of Justice Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a set of laws in the department of justice right here in front of us. So to them we want to achieve certain effects, we want to bring the judiciary and the functioning of the judiciary to a higher level. Generally speaking of all these laws, primarily these three who are a united debate, we want to make one better network of courts. Because clearly in practice we have established, we have found that misdemeanor courts for a number of years already have a significant number of cases and judges who work on these courts do not have enough cases and are not used enough in our system. And that way, by joining these courts of municipal and misdemeanor, we'll get a more uniform burden on the judges. In this way, we will actually have a welcome human infusion, we will be able to concentrate on solving some other cases, and Violent courts will be organised within the framework of municipal courts as the Department of Criminal Courts. That's one of the most important measures. It may not seem too significant at first glance, but it's technically very demanding, it takes a whole series of assumptions that we're going through. We'll organize ourselves and we'll do it and on the other hand we think we'll get into the system itself, we'll get new judges who are also educated and have all the legal exams passed and it'll be possible to redistribute them either within the municipal courts, those who don't have enough cases to judge or criminal cases and, if necessary, some other species, it's clear that we can provide them with some additional education within the judicial academy. So we think that's one measure that's actually already been and, I'd say a lot lately and planned. But we're here now to make it. What we want to say is also an important one effect is better availability of justice to citizens. Because we remember a little bit, we used to have 108 municipal courts, we had a network reorganization, so we came in the first step to 67 municipal courts, and then there was this last reorganisation where we came to 24 municipal courts and 22 criminal courts. So we're going to connect today, we're going to connect these 22 violations to 24, so we're going to come in, right now we have 46 courts in the system but 22 means we're going to connect to these. And we have space since we're going to get bigger courts once we attach the violations to the municipalities we have room for another 10 new openings. So we're going to open up new municipal courts and we're going to have 34 courts in the network instead of 46. I'd say it's a good combination, too, that it's the same as a good date where we're actually going to give citizens a better chance of coming to justice. And there is a very important provision, a provision that speaks of strengthening permanent services outside the court seat. What we found on the ground is that many places that have a permanent service outside the court headquarters there have a problem with discussions and procedural actions related to cases relating to the area of permanent service outside the court seat that it actually happens in the center itself and not in that permanent service. I don't know, for example, people from Ogulin go to Karlovac, from Gline go to Sisak, from Sinj, around Sinj go to Split. And we now want to strengthen this very one provision, we want to strengthen these permanent services outside of the headquarters where we prescribe that in all those cases relating to territory and concerning the meaning of the local area of permanent service outside the headquarters that discussions and other procedural activities have to be conducted so in those permanent services. Some courts are organized to do so today, but unfortunately one number, one number works in such a way as to say easier to come to the center than to organize work that means judges go a little into these permanent services. And by amending these laws that we propose, we want to completely change that. Also, what is important is that we want to send through these changes a message of a clearer, better, more transparent work of the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, it will be in this second series. I don't think anyone in Croatia is and at least the people who are in the judiciary aren't satisfied with the work of the State Judiciary Council. We see that these procedures when they open, means to appoint judges that it takes a very, very long time. That they know for a long time on the other hand, so then they actually cancel the competitions and don't get elected. So those who ran, and unfortunately in the last few contests, it was actually seen that the points that were achieved and the rank scale which is that it didn't mean much because people who were in 70th place were elected before all those who scored more points. We think that this is not a sustainable situation, we think that this is not a good situation, and that is why we want to install and build on the provision that it is necessary to respect the order of points obtained, because the State Judiciary Council has a significant impact because it has a certain number of points that it means in the interview with the candidates it can give. What is also important to us in all of this, in this whole package of laws, is to strengthen independence, exactly the opposite of what is said to be narrowing down the independence of the judiciary, we are precisely in order to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, we want some of the powers that the minister has today, which is to give an opinion on the candidates' proposals for the presidents of the courts. We don't think it's an executive's job, and that's why we really want it to be a job exclusively to the State Judiciary Council. We also think that the minister should not appoint court presidents, we think that this is how we send a message that this should be done by the judiciary within its own mechanisms and systems that this is also a contribution to strengthening independence. That is also what we want to raise to a higher level, which is to strengthen the expertise within the judiciary, so that I say we raise that awareness that we belong to the EU, that we belong to the EU's judiciary, that we raise to one higher level, and that in these larger courts that have 50 and more judges, we will establish meaning sections that will follow the practice and European Court of Human Rights that will cover the practice and, of course, the EU court will continue to spread it to these other courts. So we think it's one thing, it's one good measure, and we definitely need to make a lot of progress in that part because today we are no longer closed just within the borders of the Republic of Croatia and we are very directly applying the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and we need to actually sensitize the entire system to everything that's going on there. There are also certain changes, it's about the property cards of the judges. There was quite a debate about whether the system of property cards of judges should be organised differently than it is today and today they are available, but in order for someone to come to the data must prove legal interest. We think and suggest that it goes as well as for all the officials to make it so for the judges. I have to say, I've been going around the field, I've spoken to all the presidents of the courts in the Republic of Croatia, and none of the Presidents of the Court has told me there's a problem with that, and on the other hand we're proposing a change like this. As for some other provisions, I think it's a good idea to arrange and appoint a Supreme Court president. Let us remember that the latest procedure for the appointment of the Supreme Court president has passed, there have been no clear criteria. We are now prescribing a clear procedure, and we also respect those recommendations of GRECO, so the State Judiciary Council will issue a public call, at the invitation of interested candidates who meet the conditions, will file the necessary documentation, report, submit their work programme to the President's Office, and it will also go to a general session of the Supreme Court and the Assembly Committee on Justice. After these opinions come, the president proposes a candidate for the Supreme Court. Let's remember that was the last time past, it wasn't exactly regulated. We're regulating it today, and we think it should be pretty good. We also propose a faster appointment of judges, so at the State Judiciary Council we prescribe a deadline that they must, within six months of the day when they call for a tender, carry out the procedure within six months and all those participants from the Judicial Council who are making the evaluations, prescribe and shorten the deadlines in order to reach that deadline of six months, and we think that it is really not appropriate that all this takes a long time because for the entire time we do not have a judge in the system and we do not have a trial. In addition, we have clearer criteria for assessing our judges, primarily we believe that quality and quantity of work need to be evaluated. So it doesn't matter if someone is doing the norm, not only to make the norm, but also what is the norm, whether the number of those and the percentage of judgments that someone has made has been changed, restored to retrial, and there we are also taking great care of it. In addition to all these above, we propose that the term of office of the President of the Court be limited to two terms. We don't think it's a good idea to create some kind of presidential elite within the judicial system, but we think we need to open up an opportunity for others, and that's one of the measures we're also proposing here. As far as the State Judiciary Council is concerned, to return to the composition of the DSV, we propose to be two Supreme Court judges, to be three judges of the county courts, to be one of the judges of the municipal courts and to be one of the judges of senior specialised courts. Today the situation is about to happen, so not about, but exactly, we have two Supreme Judges, we have two county judges, we have two municipal judges, we have one specialized. We think it is necessary to have regional representation within the DSV right now, so we think these three representatives of the county courts that we choose in three electoral units will bring all parts of Croatia to be represented within the DSV. There were discussions during a public debate whether to increase the number of members of the municipal judges. We believe that it is not some body of the judiciary self-government but that it is a very professional body that decides on the most important things in the judiciary, which is the appointment and advancement, the strict responsibility, a number of other issues, and that there should be some kind of profession, but also some hierarchy that exists in all of this. So we think that these standards that we propose and these measures we propose will also bring more efficiency and more transparency, clearer procedures, better procedures. In any case, this may be a central and fundamental measure regarding the merger of municipal and criminal courts, and we have indeed seen these new courts, these new ten courts, to be balanced in a good way. And we have stated that the criteria were important for us not to be small courts again where, under ten judges when we get a merger of municipal and criminal, we feel that this does not meet all the conditions we need because small, detached courts without enough judges we cannot carry out within these courts or specialization, we cannot possibly ensure that someone goes to sick leave from both the officers and the tenants and the judges and we are in trouble. We therefore believe that one measure should be achieved that these courts still have a number of judges who will be able to respond to the demands that are ahead of us. And quite certainly the criteria that this is an area that covers 50 thousand inhabitants that these courts of ten judges, on top of that, are appropriate to one important criterion, which is also the geography itself means the area that is covered because I said we saw on the ground in some places really the situation seems quite chaotic, that people have to travel a hundred miles and that in conditions where there are no regular lines, we are also strengthening this very permanent service outside the court seat. This is in the shortest package regarding these three laws amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, the Law amending the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts. Of course we're in the first reading. We will be very careful to analyse everything that happens during the debate, so of course we will see for another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73891	I thank the respected minister, Mr. Bošnjakovic, for this explanation of the bill. We have a few replicas. First replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73892	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, in the assessment of the situation, indicate that the size of individual courts, we list Zagreb and Split, that the management of this massive system has led to major problems. And what's happening to you? Instead of what the Split Municipal Court is, we now get Split one and Split two. So imagine what kind of solution that is? Neither did we do anything, but it's a precedent I think in the EU that we have two municipal courts in one city, and when we know that we have all the conditions that you listed in the Dalmatian Zagora, in its heart, it's the Sinj and the Cetina region that has itself about 50,000 inhabitants. When we add other municipalities of Cista Provo, Muč and other municipalities where there are over 3,000, Cetinska krajina and colleagues Šipić and we had a meeting yesterday of mayors, mayors and presidents of the county and we agreed. And today I have given you in a pleasant conversation the conclusion that the Sinj Municipal Court should be because it is superficially larger than, much larger than Međimurje County. By the number of inhabitants is like Lika-Senj County and even up to a hundred kilometers away from Dračevac. And not only that, in 1875, there is a court in Sinj that was made by a foreign austro gar, which was restored in 2002. About 15 million kuna has been invested, and now you want to go to Dračevac where there is no bus stop, but people from Vrlika older have to go to Split and go back to Dračevac. The second thing is very important that the courts that are in this area. The Dalmatian burns are all vegetationd to that court in Sinj, both historically and demographically and superficially and by the number of inhabitants we satisfy everything. So this is where the great injustice was committed in 2015, and now you've made a precedent. In the same city you have Split 1 and Split 2. Here is the fact that the Dalmatian Zagora i.e. The Cetina landscape in the heart deserves a municipal court in Sinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73893	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73894	Well, dear fellow Bulj, today we have the Split Municipal Court, which is really big. The large courts are very hard to manage and we do not have good results and as you know and Zagreb is a great court, we shared Zagreb at the time of my colleague Milenić it seems to me in two courts of Novi Zagreb and Zagreb. And we are now adding even the Third Municipal Court of the Council because we think that this should actually still be done by systems that are easier to manage. It is with these permanent services that we will decide that people from the Cetina region do not have to travel to Split as it is today, and we ourselves have a great solution because the center of Split will get a new building in the center of the city there at the County Court where we found the funds, we have a building permit and they will move from Dračevac there and the citizens will get a nice facility in the city centre. All of this will remain in that area that is not suitable in Dračevac, but we are ready to talk further with the town of Split to get some other space and to arrange for a suitable, good court within that other area. Because now I think who was in the Dračevci area I don't think the citizens deserve that kind of space that everyone goes there. As far as the Sinj Municipal Court is concerned, the idea to create the Sinj Municipal Court is what we would count if we had what we now have in the permanent service of the Sinj Municipal Court is four judges and if we added these three more we would have a court of seven judges. It's too small, it's too small for us within that court to make any specialization. One don't let God go to the hospital we're in trouble, so on that side just by strengthening permanent services outside the court's headquarters we'll achieve these effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73895	I thank Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73896	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister Bošnjakovic, here at the beginning of this debate in the late hour I will ask you why judicial reform is being approached so unseriously. You were talking about when the Supreme Court President, Mr. Djuro Sesa, was appointed when we discussed it at the late hour, at eight o'clock when it was rarely which representative was here. So almost without arguing about it, it's been a while to cast an express vote on it today. The other thing is, why does the late hour even put six laws into this? Why are we not talking about a thorough reform of the judiciary or at least judicial reform? We're not talking about the minimum judicial reform. It wasn't until about a week ago that it was even put on the agenda. Why it was only 15 days of public debate instead of a month of public debate. Why does it not go into human beings, or, of course, cannot this authority be mixed in court, why there are no conditions for the judiciary to be cleansed. Why don't you go financially, so change the financial potential of the judiciary. If we look at the budget, we see that the line of funding from year to year is equal to that for courts, which for the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, there is no shift, no progress. Why serious things like this 2015 State's Attorney's Office Report are not discussed in 2016 but the third, fourth year. Now you're going to amend the Rules of Procedure to reduce our ability to speak, then you're going to invite Mr. Cwitan here so we don't actually have anything to ask him, because we have 13 minutes, not 70 to some average debate. Therefore, why is it so superficially accessible to the problem for which citizens and polling and in any other way said that perhaps the first problem of Croatian society is also the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73897	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73898	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Sincic, we don't think that these are small changes, these are quite important changes for us, but when we put them in the context of what we're still preparing, the amendments to the Law on the litigation process, when all of those efforts we're making in the digitalization of the entire system, which is the implementation of the E-script, we're also bringing lawyers and notebooks together to this e-registration where we want to do this communication, we're actually freeing them of paper, so faster, more specifically, where we're going to go faster. We think that by looking at totals, these are very important changes. I don't think there's some kind of set of laws we can pass today and expect it to be better tomorrow. It's one process, it's one process where we change in all segments we have to get to a better system. As far as cleaning up personnel, we can't do this as executive authority, I don't think that we are correcting the process of appointing judges, promoting judges where we insist on quality, insisting on transparency, we believe that these are important measures. So this is one set of laws that goes but by the end of the year we're planning a lot more and as far as the public debate is concerned, we're having this public debate both in the professional public and in the public space, I don't know how much of the show I've been in, and you've been with me in some of them where we've been discussing changes. As for the public debate, we've done a lot of analysis of exactly all the remarks we've received and this is in two readings, so it's not any quick, urgent procedure, and we're going to be able to analyze and use everything that's good, all that's going to enlarge, all that's going to make the system better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73899	I thank Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73900	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Bošnjakovic, you have brought us to the Parliament a mini judicial reform, 6 laws, but I am afraid that this reform will not benefit citizens any more, I will discuss this more during my debate. What I'm interested in here is your simultaneous announcements today on the amendments to the executive law, so in this regard, I think it's much more important than what we're going to discuss today, so I'd just like to ask you in the beginning if you've predicted in future amendments to the Implementing Law, the removal of public notebooks, lawyers, the FINA and the Agency for the collection of claims from the costs of the exercise, and what are the public notes that they should come to the negotiations of the Implementing Law? We could read that too today, who are they to ask them what they think about it? We have sent out of the Living Wall, namely the Law on the Agency for the collection of claims, or on the transfer of demand, which is one big step in relieving the problem of debt citizens, and I am also interested in what your view of our law is, and if that attitude is not good, what is your view of how this problem should be solved? So I know that there are some things you can't say right now or you don't want to say because you want it to be like some kind of big surprise, but here I'm curious about what direction these changes are going to go in and if I could expect it to be, I think it's really more interesting for the citizens than whether there's going to be one court or two courts in Split, whether someone's going to advance in 15 days or 30 days in their service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73901	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Answer, Your Honors Minister Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73902	Well esteemed colleague Bunjac, I think citizens will benefit from this so at least in that segment that we will strengthen the permanent service outside the court's seat, which means that someone doesn't have to travel from the Clay or the surrounding Clay to Sisak but will actually do their needs for the judiciary in...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73903	Your Honor, Minister, just a little bit, please. Comrade Šipić, please do not disturb the minister as he responds to the replica, as well as his colleagues from MOST, I would ask you nicely not to disturb the minister. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73904	Thank you very much. So they'll do it where it's closer to him and where it'll be easier to access the judicial authorities. As far as this is concerned, she's not the subject of these laws that are here today in front of you, and it's not in principle that I don't want to tell you. My position is actually expressed through a decision to set up a working group and there very clearly what are the objectives of the new Implementing Law. We want the execution to be quick, to be effective and to be the least damage per doer himself. We would also very much like to analyse the costs and there one of the goals is to reduce the costs of the performance. Personally, I think there's a lot of room for progress here, but which will be modality, which will be the final solution, which will be the role, these participants or those, that depends on the working group that is now much more intensively working than before, and I believe that, as I have announced, we will have some work text to discuss in the workshop, round tables where you will all be able to participate by summer. I know these goals actually sound convenient, but finding measures to balance it all out, to be satisfied and the executive and the performer is difficult, but we have to get to such a system because I think it is not appropriate and okay that people are blocked for years and that people have great costs that often pass and the main debt. And I'm sure we'll do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73905	I thank Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73906	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, among other things we have before us is in this package and the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Through a report on public consultation, we have seen that the basic criterion for deciding on the implementation of courts and in your presentation was an area of about 50,000 inhabitants and at least 10 and 12 judges respectively. Why am I telling you this? I'm telling you because the former Ogulin municipal court actually covered the largest, spatial, spatial area in the former network of municipal courts. Today in Ogulin we have a permanent service, we have your promise, but we also have here as we have seen in the Justice Department's report the intention that the existing permanent service will not be abolished and I hope that you will confirm it for me. Over the past few months, we have spoken several times, exchanged certain materials and met specifically on the issue of the Municipal Court in Ogulin. And since one city, precisely its institutions and institutions, makes the city in the fullest sense of that word, I believe that permanent service is a minimum that we cannot and cannot actually go under. However, if these criteria change between the two readings, here I recommend myself on my own behalf, as well as on behalf of the leader of the units of local self-government, both the city of Ogulin and the other units gravitating the Ogulin Municipal Court to visit Ogulin so that you can also present other arguments other than the number of inhabitants, primarily surface and spatial arguments. But I'm also going to point out in the end that the permanent service is actually a minimum under which we can't and we can't go and I hope it stays like that in Ogulin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73907	I would like to thank my colleague, Lipošak. Minister Bosanjakovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73908	Here's Ogulin is also one of the examples where we have a nominal permanent service but that doesn't actually work in a way that would be appropriate for citizens than people from Ogulin and the surrounding Ogulin travel to Karlovac. It is these provisions where I prescribe these powers of permanent service and these obligations that we strengthen this permanent service and we want to bring the judiciary closer to the citizens. I know actually and there are the mayor's wishes that we make as many courts as possible, and I'd be very happy if it's possible for us to do it but under some minimums we can't go. And here is the central question whether we want a better judicial service within a larger court or a worse judicial service within a smaller court. That's the central question. I think that's where we need to find the balance, and it seems to me to me that these new courts we're establishing are going to achieve this. In some places, we return because we have a chance because we connect municipally and infractionally. But where we're really under 10 judges, it doesn't make sense because we're going back to the wheel that we had here, I remember, I was doing a reform in 2010 when we had 108 municipal ones, so we came to 67 and it was actually a very narrow network. Then went that second reform where we came from those 67 to 24. So here, now we're increasing something a little bit, but let's force the permanent service outside the seat because I don't think it's a problem for a judge within a 50-mile radius to come from one location to the other and in one day to conduct discussions that apply to that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73909	I thank the respected Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first thing I'm going to start with is a public consultation issue. Unfortunately, lately I have to talk a lot about this and about the duration and what you said earlier in response to the replica of my colleague Sincic, I would point out to you the ruling of the High Administrative Court of Justice of 28 February last year, where a general act was abolished precisely because the consultation with the interested public was too short. Therefore, please, we have time, after we have finished our first reading, spend between the two readings consulting with the interested public for full duration and avoid what we do for formal reasons falling. But let me go back to what you were talking about. So you said something at the beginning of your debate about breaking legislation. And I'm extremely pleased to see how much what was done with the Criminal Code is positive because this particular measure that was taken 5 years ago has also allowed the avoidance of statutes but also faster procedures. However, let me remind you that the HDZ Representatives Club was then harshly against such a proposal, but good. One thing I've talked about more than once with you both personally and at committee meetings and at the plenary session, and that's where I'm going to end up with this replica, I'm going to stay in an individual debate, referring to the issue of the High Court of Penalty. We talked about it when we talked about the CAP, we have to talk about it again now. In consultation with the interested public, our colleague, our esteemed colleague... He made one remark, and now I'm asking you for an answer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Either we give up on the High Court of Penalty which I think is right, so let's say, or now use this amendment to the Courts Act so you can prepare the High Court for another reading so that when it comes into effect if we have it all arranged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73911	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. Answer, Your Honors Minister Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73912	Thank you very much, dear fellow coat of honor. As far as consulting the interested public is concerned, we have been authorised otherwise by the Commissioner for Information for such a public debate, but indeed between these two readings we will conduct a comprehensive one, which I agree with you, a public debate. Not only that, but to all the disputed areas you point to me personally and I'll come to the field, so I'll see, actually, I'll weigh the arguments in the field. As far as the Criminal Code is concerned, it is not doubtless that this good measure where punishment can actually be paid on the spot or in a shorter period has halved the number of these items. And I have to say that at some point I've been discussing that actually, with nostalgia, we're going to remember that breaking law where we could actually get things into stalemate that it won't be so that we can remember it nostalgically, it's gone. As far as the High Criminal Court is concerned, and you're right, and we'll set ourselves up for another reading because there are objections where one group is very strong for the establishment of the High Criminal Court, the other is very strongly opposed. We have in the Code of Criminal Procedure the current provision that prescribes the obligation to establish a High Criminal Court until 1.1.2020. And we're going to have to do another reading, and I agree with that, and we're going to determine ourselves, and we're going to have a debate about it because it's pretty often a matter of numbers, and we're going to put numbers on paper here, tell us what it means in the number of judges, what it means to us in the number of cases if jurisdiction is like this, or if jurisdiction is like that, so we have to have a clear picture, and that tends to be some kind of cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73913	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mr. Bošnjakovic, for this answer. The next replica, a respected colleague, Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. So I would actually use this replica and invite you to clarify the issue of increasing the number of municipal judges. So we're here as long as, four or five years ago, I think we've all voted for this one radical reduction because we've been going towards saying that we care more about specialization and quality and the possibility of collapsing the file, so more evenly because it's not even achieved to end the burden of judges than that every place has its own judgment. And that's what we agreed here to do together, and it's publicly accepted, and we're going into that model. I am now interested and I hope that you will at least between the two debates give us a number of indicators why, let's say, there should be a court back in Crikvenica and by which the citizen who is doing this today in Crikvenica will get a better service if his court returns, the building is still there and he is doing it there. The same goes for Djakovo, Kutin, Makarska. So you know what the problem is in Makarska, you will now return the court and attach some other permanent services to it. Makarska can't really carry herself, at least it couldn't be in my term and yours before me, I don't know what it's like now, so that situation. I'm afraid that with this step we're going to spread the net, I know I'm going to say we're connecting the misdemeanors, that's a different story, but the municipal courts. We're going to send a harder specialization, make it harder for the file to collapse, and still people won't be happy. You've already had questions here today why don't we why these, so it's very dangerous when you go back, I'd appreciate this backwards. You know that the only country in Europe that brought back municipal courts was Serbia, we're second to it. So it's not a trend. I think we should talk about county courts, whether we have too many or not, about someone else I'll discuss more in the debate. But this is what I'm asking you to do, actually, why are we going in there?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73915	I thank my esteemed colleague Milenić. Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73916	Well, frankly, I've had these fears, and I've been thinking about it, and I've talked to my associates because I don't want the wheel back either. Finally, we are the first to go into a very wide process of rationalisation of the networks, but on the other hand we see that there are some courts in the system that are too bulky and still, which are hard to manage both Zagreb and Split and there are some things we have done. As far as the total number is concerned, we have 46 courts today, 24 municipal, 22 violations, we'll have today after this 34th, if we no longer associate them with the municipal ones. When we connect with the municipalities, then we come up with the possibility of going back to some locations somewhere. You noticed this well, Kutina, when I was in the Box you know where the people from the Kutina are traveling? They travel to, say, Kostanica, travel to such locations, which is unimaginable. I believe that we will achieve one balance that these new courts, which we establish, will have enough judges to respond to these demands, and on the other hand by strengthening and continuing services within these courts, will bring that judiciary closer to the citizens again. I believe that we have found this balance and we will see, of course, everything between the two debates we can discuss, but we have the numbers how many judges each of these new courts will have and we have the number of cases per judge, so I think we found one balance here, and that's why we didn't spread and we didn't go too far, with 46 globally looking at us at 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73917	I thank you for your response to Minister Bošnjakovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73918	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. Of course, the situation in the judiciary is a subject that is inexhaustible, and we can discuss it for months, both on data and on citizens' trust in the judiciary and everything that goes on and of course it's something that we need to deal with, not now, not tonight, not tomorrow, but yesterday, what we say figuratively. This package, if I may say so, is an amendment to the law as far as courts and the judiciary are concerned now is one of the beginnings I see. Surely, in some segments, it will contribute precisely to that, of course, when we increase the possibilities and the very efficiency and faster solution of the case. And what you would say in layman's terms if we had judges who weren't so burdened and that their jobs and norms ended in three, four hours a day, especially if we're talking about offenders where there's a lot of common example and denial of the right to appeal where they're generally all powerful then objects, statistically it looks very nice. And, of course, the logic of the thing is to use ourselves at the same cost when we talk about efficiency on the same cost to divide part of civil and other jurisdictional courts. As for what I must express satisfaction as someone who comes from Slavonia to return the Municipal Court to Đakov with the responsibilities of the municipality..., Drenje, Đurdjevac, Fericans, Gorani, Koška,... Varoshi, Podgorača, Punovca, Captains, Semelci, Strizivojna, Trnave, Viškovac and Našica city in the name of Djakova, I had to say this for our people's sake. [[/The speaker talks too fast, he doesn't understand.]] Of course, there are Vinkovci, and that should not be forgotten. We heard in the debates and Mr. Secretary of State pointed out that it wasn't just a mere return and I'll finish the court eating there a lot... and the public notebooks and lawyers are returning a little life to those cities especially in Slavonia where it should be and it is certainly commendable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73919	I thank my colleagues Curaju. The answer of my colleague Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73920	The current legislation does not in fact prevent the presidents of the courts from organising procedural activities within permanent services outside the seat. Unfortunately, however, that is not the rule. The rule is that it happens in the center anyway, and that's why we went around the field and we saw how it works, and that's why at here, we start certain locations and we return municipal courts because now we have simple conditions, we have room for it. But I'm still saying, we're really worried about getting the wheel back, not producing again little miniature vessels that won't be able to answer this, actually, which is what the judiciary is looking for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73921	I thank Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. Yes, my colleague Bulj mentioned the mayor's initiative, the mayor plus the mayor who bowed to the initiative, and as much as I hear in the county assembly there were questions about the issue in our Split-Dalmatia County the other day. So, yes, this question is for us one of the important questions, for the Chetian end, and this morning we had a chance to give it to you personally. What would that mean to us all and why I am personally a signator and an initiative to do everything if it can be done to get the municipal court back? Of course, in one correct debate and parchment this morning, we saw and heard some arguments on the other side that there were no arguments. Enough of the items that would make the capacity of all of this increased judges and make a step forward by the former government, and now the question is why and why are they abolished in Sinj Court, and we are now trying to bring it back. What is not mentioned here in the proposal of this law is a permanent service. You mentioned it several times in your presentation, so I would like to ask that at least through the explanation that we will and which is here in preparation, there are no places where there will be permanent service, because of the people who live and because of the problems they face, because of the objects that have been going on for too long, it is necessary to strengthen the strength and, as you yourself have said, permanent service. Because there's a lot of costs, there's a lot of expenditure, there's a lot of problems, and that's why we certainly welcome the announcement of your arrival in Sinj, the Chetinski end, we also welcome, and that there will be opportunities for two readings to include perhaps new suggestions that will be found here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73923	I would like to thank my colleague, Šipic. Answer, Honorable Minister Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73924	Thank you very much. So here, I've already said, all these remarks that are highlighted here, we're going to analyze them, at all the locations that are marked as problematic, we're going to come. Of course, we'll subdue the data. I've already said, the Sinj municipal court would have seven judges per projection. I don't think that's for the benefit of the citizens. It is in favour of the citizens that he has a quality service and we think that in this way, with a small number of judges we can't provide it, and as far as that rationalisation step that the previous government did, he was actually supported by everyone in those conditions, he was correct, he was good in those conditions. But we now have some kind of space where we combine the violations with the municipalities that we can get back somewhere, and in total we have a smaller number of courts. So that those parties are the only thing that I don't think is good, not well-organized work of permanent services outside the court's headquarters. That's why we here are very imperative in this Law and we create such a provision that says: "Here you are, organize the work of permanent services so that all objects that apply locally to the area of permanent service have discussions to be held there." And it will actually, I think, be with you both in Sinj and in Kutina and in Crikvenica and in Pazin. It's actually going to be for the benefit of the citizens. The greatest benefit of the citizens will be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73925	I thank you for your response to Minister Bošnjakovic. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73926	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, in your presentation, you pointed out that in this proposal of yours you are better at editing the decision of the President of the Supreme Court. Realising that last year we had an entirely non-transparent procedure and this is something that is certainly a qualitative step forward, but not enough. First of all, this should have been done a lot sooner. So this law should have been developed and the law should have been passed before the President of the Supreme Court's election. And what you are proposing now, unfortunately, is not entirely the qualitative reform we would expect. For example, we expected you to suggest that the Supreme Court president should only be elected between the Supreme Court judges. So, to narrow down the choice to the highest quality judges we have in the state because we don't leave it open that someone who doesn't belong to that court can fly in there. Likewise, we have also suggested in our legal proposals that there can be no Supreme Court president or candidate if there is a possible charge of criminal offence. You've predicted something similar with the Attorney General, and we expected you to make such a provision by analogy in this legislative proposal when it comes to the President of the Supreme Court, so I ask your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73927	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. Answer, Honorable Minister Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73928	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Podolnjak, we are in the first reading. We're open for discussion, for argument. As for the President of the Supreme Court, we have seen such an observation that is highlighted in the public debate, we will hear other members of the Croatian Parliament. I have to say, personally, I'm not gonna close the candidate door to elect the Supreme Court president. If such a provision had been, for some time, an excellent lawyer, Ivica Crnic would not have been the president of the Supreme Court. As you can see, practice has shown in the last few terms that these are the people of the Supreme Court, but why close the door to some great lawyers who can actually be tomorrow? It's a matter of discussion, I'm open to debate. You have expressed your position and your view is about the reform that it is not deep enough, it is your position and I respect it. But I see this as one of the measures that we are predicting here. A lot of things, what you're saying, should have been brought in sooner. Many. Probably 25, 30 years ago, here I am today when I face and see actually, that we are still communicating lawyers with courts communicating with paper, through mail, and we are living in a digital age, I want to actually do it, that electronic communication, and imagine that these things were made before I don't know, 10 years where we would be today. So there's a lot to be done before, but today we have a situation that we have, and within it, we're proposing some steps that we think will be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73929	I thank the respected Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73930	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. So, from your presentation one thing that could be heard, today I actually want to point to one fact. First of all, I would like to thank you, in fact, during this public debate between you and Secretary of State Mr Turkalj, because together with the representatives of the city of Makarska and Imotski, we were actually discussing this court seat in Imotska, i.e. strengthening the permanent service in Imotski, which you have pointed out today. We were not acceptable to the fact that we are going to the municipal court in Split Dračevac 2 and I am glad that this is why we reached an agreement. The fact is, and you could hear today the exposure of our colleagues that they were emotionally bound, in fact, to a municipal court that as such existed, so Imotski, I know that in this 300-year anniversary of the liberation of the Turks was specifically talking about it, was done special... two incenses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, for the years of Austro-Hungarian, in fact, the municipal court then experienced its culmin and people were emotionally bound, it is true, but I am glad that because of respecting this fact not only rationalization of municipal courts, but also the fact that citizens actually bear far less cost and that actually judges, or those who represent citizens, lawyers have, let's say, equal rights and that right can actually benefit their own in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73931	I thank my colleague Babic. Answer. Dear Minister Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73932	Dear colleague Babic. So in the spirit of all these discussions about strengthening permanent services, I can also tell you that we are not satisfied with the functioning of these permanent services and that, by changing the regulations, we want to strengthen them, which is kind of a message, and I said that in meeting with the presidents of the courts, we use opportunities, and when there is no court somewhere in the smaller environment, when there is no mail, when there is no bank, when there are no notebooks, when there are no lawyers, in fact that message is what you are, running from there, there is no life. In some ways, here, and as a judiciary, we want to contribute to the return of life to some environment, to create the conditions for it to work better, really here, I point out the example of Clay because there, when I was also a great building, a beautiful building, and actually it's not a debate, but these people, who are asking how much money they actually have, we from this place around Gline are dragging into Sisak, and very simply, we can have a permanent service working in a way that 3 or 4 days a month special judges come in to do the discussions that are related to this area and everything is fine. That's how we want it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73933	I thank the respected Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73934	Dear Minister, here, I must once again express my dissatisfaction that here at 1900 we are discussing this so-called. The minimum reform of the judiciary and what I would point out here in this replica is this transparency of the election of judges which is not addressed in these proposals that you have made. So, what are the measures that make the system of appointment and progress of judges more transparent and why are not, as we have suggested, so yesterday we put two legislative proposals in the procedure, including the DSV Act, where we have proposed the transfer of talks with judges, means that it goes live, that people can see it on the basis of which DSV makes certain decisions. After all, I'm being criticized by the DSV for being exposed to a single lynch. I will be a 10.04 witness in the case of a judge from Split, Nenada Cambi v Jutarnji list, meaning, because of my interview, and I have been announced, i.e. I have been announced claims for damages by all judges in the DSV, and we all know how many problems in the Croatian judiciary are and that this body is responsible for selecting and improving judges and why you did not go to this proposal to make it transparent that both our citizens and the entire interested public can monitor these talks and then make certain conclusions on this basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73935	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Answer, Your Honors Minister Bosnjakovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73936	Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Well, no one said in the second reading we wouldn't appreciate some things that were good. This is where we found, in fact, one thing a little bit more difficult, and that is, when you came as a candidate first, and I'm like the sixth candidate, I'm going to watch that transmission of yours, and then I'm going to see what you're wondering, how you answer, and I'm going to be in some practical advantage of myself as sixth compared to you first. I'm thinking maybe we should let it pass on after the story's over, say we find some sort of environment. I don't run away from solutions that are good and that contribute to transparency. We can work that out between the two readings. And I think we're raising, in fact, the whole process. Our grades are clearer, they're actually based on quantity, on quality of work, we've cut deadlines. And fundamentally, do we really want the decision of the State Judiciary Council to be based on points, so that what we have today doesn't happen to us is that someone with 70 seats is elected, and those who are ahead of him don't. That's just not what we want. I have to admit I can't explain it how it's possible. And here's what happens to you. I think our proposal goes that way, but we're open to all discussions. We're not against shooting and all that. We see this one practical problem, but if we find any solution, I'm not against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73937	I thank the respected Minister Bošnjakovic for this answer. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. You were talking about judge evaluation criteria. I think we are all aware of what status in society the Croatian judiciary has. We have daily media records. And today we had an inscription in a daily list that one object went into oblivion. So, it's a car accident on Treshny's salary. We have a Mascarina case. And I, in your evaluation criteria, have not seen, therefore, that a judge who does not stop at all, therefore leaves the subject in oblivion that he will be sanctioned in some way, but in fact the assessment criterion is reduced to the norm of the judges. This means that the judge will be able to meet a certain standard if he meets a certain standard in some easy cases. In such heavy objects his subject goes into obsolescence, he can actually be rewarded. So I think the real reform of the judiciary would be in these things. So, if the judge who keeps setting up or if the judge who keeps having the case with you and in obsolescence, he has to be punished in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73939	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sladolev. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73940	It's actually very important to meet the standard, but it's also very important that the quality of work be done. So if some high ratio of those decisions that have been abolished, changed, the re-evaluation is lower. With these cases out of date, of course, it's always a failure of the judiciary, but we have in fact measures for such situations solutions. Now, if I were to tell you the percentage and the number of objects back a few years, we'd actually see that the number of objects that went into oblivion have fallen very significantly. However, to be and to be one at the level of the year, I see it as a failure, because it is in fact necessary to strive that such things are not there and that procedures go faster and that they do not happen. But there are mechanisms within the law, so there are mechanisms for strict responsibility for that as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73941	I thank the respected Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply to the replica. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the debate will be shared by Mr Podolnjak and Mr Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73942	... Ministers with associates. [[Specially enabled.]] Here at this late hour, we begin a debate about a set of law enforcement laws. Six laws unitedly delivered by the Government, which are officially referred to by the Government as a mini judicial reform, and because of that, when we received that set of laws, we expected that they were indeed reformable and that these reforms could be recognised in each of these individual laws. Unfortunately, our opinion is that this is not about genuine, qualitative reform, given that we ourselves have had the opportunity to manage the Ministry of Justice for a certain time, that we have had a minister with certain associates who have prepared a number of significant laws just partially concerning this area. And one part of the proposals you are proposing today in this set of laws were originally prepared at a time when the minister proposed by MOST managed the ministry along with his associates. And in that part of course we support the legislative proposals that are now on the first reading. However, what we will say both in the debate and in the individual debates unfortunately these proposals do not go far enough, they do not go well enough and are not on the trail of all that has already been prepared in the Ministry of Justice, in a number of details that make up the quality of certain legislative proposals where many solutions could be much better quality and on the trail of what the European standards and what GRECO and other subjects have advised us about, and we will talk about this in some debates today and most tomorrow. However, the first question is certainly to be asked by citizens who will follow this debate, which this mini reform brings to us, given that the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia does not enjoy the reputation that should be enjoyed in one EU Member State. We had much to fix and qualitatively raise the level of our judiciary before joining the EU, and we changed some provisions of the Constitution for that, although not enough. But today 5 years later, citizens of the legal person, companies, do not trust the judicial system. And that trust and perception of independence, independence, integrity in the judicial system is very low. And all the studies that exist, not ours, but those done by the European Commission via the euro-barometer, unfortunately, show very low perceptions of independence, independence, integrity of the judicial system. And that's got to worry us all. And therefore, this debate must help us all to conclude together that these proposals are not good enough and that we can improve at least in this part of this set of laws. We at MOST will certainly say that this is not a qualitative step, that this is not a reform, that this is a quasi-reform, that these are cosmetic changes, because we ourselves have proposed laws that have been consulted with the interested public and we expect that these laws will almost be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. We regret that they are not parallel to the debate because when you see parallelly how in the Law on Courts we settle certain questions and how the Government proposes it, you would see qualitative differences. But we'll talk about it in a series of individual exhibitions. But if you would also consider us biased political rivals, an opposition that thinks ahead and prioritizes that these legal proposals are bad, but here I am reading today, you have an interview in Globus where the President of the County Court in Zagreb, therefore the largest court in Zagreb, which you cannot say is politically biased, on the question whether this reform is truly reformed says: this is far from reform. This is far from any judicial reform. And then speak further what you should actually do. Starting with the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, etc. So it's not just us, who are political actors here and who have our own suggestions and we think they're better. But if you're told by the President of the County Court in Zagreb, then it's something else. In any case, you can't give him some political background of the grade he gave. What we're discussing right now is in principle organisational laws. The organic laws of organisational nature, therefore, deal with the organisation and establishment of courts, the procedure of elections and appointments of judges, the State Judiciary Council, the areas of the courts, and that is the largest part of the matter covered by these three laws that we are now discussing. But we have been dealing with these judicial reforms for 10 years, if it says so in this proposal since 2008. And now we're re-proposing additional reconstructions. It is not only that, for example, misdemeanors are abolished and that they are joined by municipal courts, but we do not carry out this reform condescendingly. For example, in Zagreb, the Municipal Criminal Court remains a High Violent Court, which is a little confusing that if you abolish criminal courts, the High Court remains. And now, for example, in art. 15. Amendment and addition of this Law on Courts you prescribe that the High Criminal Court is not directly superior to the municipal courts, and out of the majority of jurisdiction, or jurisdiction, if not all, of the High Court of Justice, it is indeed directly superior to the judges of the municipal courts who solve the infringement cases. Judges who are to be tried in criminal cases will be subject to double supervision which puts them in an unequal position compared to other judges in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, if the county court is directly a senior court, it has the powers to oversee the work of municipal courts and judges without exception. And as the High Violent Court decides to appeal the decisions of municipal courts in infringement cases, it also has powers of supervision through decisions regarding the appeal, but through supervision of the work of judges who do criminal cases. And yet, according to EU standards, a judge should not be subject to control that puts him in an unequal position compared to other judges. And in fact, we are completely unclear on the point of leaving the High Violent Court as an independent court, and in that sense we have proposed a different solution, so the merger of the jurisdiction of high criminal courts and county courts in one system of appeal courts. But it's just part of what we think isn't well arranged. We're going to talk about individual presentations, of course, and DSV, because we can't talk about three laws and each aspect in a single presentation on behalf of the club. But for example, we are dissatisfied with the structure of the municipal courts that you are proposing and increasing the number of but without any data. We don't really know what data is between resetting a network of municipal courts and why now, after a certain reform that was carried out a few years ago, we're re-resetting the system, introducing new systems, but we don't see objective indicators, figures, cases, number of judges, geographical distribution, so that territorial dimension and everything else that is relevant missing in this assessment of the situation that should actually be in that Law. In this regard, we expect to see more than one indication to you on this issue, and in the following five minutes, my colleague Bulj will be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73943	I thank my fellow Downworlder. Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73944	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, here for the second or third time today, the fact is that we have agreed today, and I am sorry that it is early today, regardless of what was proposed by the meeting, the mayor and Mr. Šipic went through, regardless of what the agreement was at 11, perhaps if we were together, we would better coordinate things because you stressed this law and gave the opinion that they were huge courts, municipal courts that were in reforms in 2015, Split and Zagreb, you stressed that they were the problem of governance. And now you've come up with one solution, expanding 10 municipal courts by 24 to 34 and you say, we now have no Split, but Split I and Split II municipal court. He can do it, but we have the Dalmatian Zagora, we have one part that's forgotten, we have one part that only shuts down institutions, and that's one demographic measure that's disastrous, ever since we take here to bind both the seats and the districts of municipal state attorneys, that's 5.6 people who also worked in the area of the Dalmatian Zagora. Sinja and we need to know that this specificity of what I'm talking about right now is very clear, and that's what all the mayors and the mayors and the mayors, 50,000 residents representing the Cetina region, the mayor of Split-Dalmatia, said, but here he didn't last 24 hours. I would love and hope that until the second reading and when you visit Sinj, you know that the Cetina province is and how well you were known, you were all well-sighted guests, but what you're doing to the Dalmatian Zagor has nothing to do with common sense. The site is extinct, only in 4 years because of the institution's shutting down, because of people who travel 100 km from Vrlika to Dračevac, 100 km, and do not have a bus port, unorganized public transport, this is catastrophic. You know, I've met you, you've stayed in your positions, about a permanent court that will have its own service in Sinj, however, is the fact that Sinj has lost and criminal, legal processes and working relationships, so it's a huge number of people who come, that area around Sinj, and the municipalities cross up to 70,000 inhabitants. So we're talking about the Dalmatian Zagora, which had 870,000, 1985, its own court, the municipal court that opened the alien, Austro-Hungarian, it's the center of the Dalmatian Fire. I think this is a big hit for the Dalmatian Zagora, and that's why we're starting other initiatives. Unfortunately, in the past, I had to, my colleague Bacic knows it well, fight for the sun's birth, for the sonic stationer, protest, I had to protest for what? Because of what this is and an anti-demographic measure which is at the expense of the inhabitants but you can't tell any norm to the President of the Court where he'll deploy the judges. He's the president of the Split court. And don't fool the public, I beg you for a good relationship, come out, this isn't met, out of these 10 courts that all deserve, newly named, Split II is unnecessary, you should have Dalmatian Zagora your court and that's the center at this point because we're divided so and countyly, it's Sinj because he's the greatest. It's not what I come from that area,... At 11:00, I was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and Mayor Ivan Šipić, Mayor of Sinja, Island,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mayor, they all agreed, and I think this is an injustice that we must correct by this law because nothing from what you said in the conclusion. What you said in the announcement of this law, you said this was the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to know that the Cetina region has 3 cities and 3 municipalities and around it has a dozen municipalities around the Cetina region itself and I see no reason why this court will not return. Please listen well to me, on behalf of those who signed yesterday. We can go further, we won't allow any more devastation of institutions in the Dalmatian Zagora. We'll head towards the people, there was a good meeting today, I'm sorry you're early... By meetings outside of the agreement, the mayor and colleagues of Šipic left with me, could not bite me, would solve this problem together, I went to 11, you in 9, no matter how familiar the mayor was and was such an agreement but I expect that we will jointly stop the devastation of institutions in the Cetina region, in Dalmatia, because the fact that in the last 4 years, from 2011 to 2016, 26 000 people went away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they have huge costs for abolishing criminal proceedings and legal and these working legal processes. I expect from you ministers, this is the first reading, in front of the MOST Club and on behalf of all mayors, on behalf of all mayors, the mayor of the Chetino region, on behalf of the signatories... And the mayor who left early this morning, I don't know why, to respect this proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73945	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We have several replicas on the presentation of respected colleague Robert Dolnjak, a replica of respected colleague Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73946	Thank you, Chairman. For the first hand, I'd like to say congratulations at least on partial honesty because you called this a mini reform. It's a pity that you've had the real reform you've had at a high level of feasibility for another half of the year you've actually had at your disposal everything that's supposed to happen since the real reform, and in the end you've brought the situation to a mini reform that's actually a beauty for cosmetics. And now I'm interested in Mr. Dolnjak, which is why he's leaving for example. High court of law if it's above the municipal court and high criminal and county, wouldn't it be logical to merge? Why is there no mandatory education of the President of the Court? Why does the Minister of Justice move at the time when another person is not appointed to do the job until the President of the Court is appointed? Because in my opinion, the President, or the Minister of Justice, is correct in those moments. What leaves the possibility that the President of the Supreme Court may at the same time be in court as a defendant and at the same time be the President of the Supreme Court? Isn't it logical, if you've put for the DORH that at the moment when a powerful indictment against the attorney general is filed, that he can no longer be, that it doesn't make sense that he can't even be president of the Supreme Court. You could count 100 things, it's a little bit of time, but I've read one great thing today, it's called traffic renaissance, 600,000 kunas spent on something that's never been proposed or shown, so do this and a judicial renaissance, you'll never even show it, since you've arranged a reform of the mini judicial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73947	I thank my colleague Petrov, the reply to the replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73948	Thank you. As I said, the most important things are in the details of the law, in those shades they show, but the promoter is the one who worked on the proposal, he really wants to do something quality. For example, I must go back to what you said to the President of the Supreme Court, therefore, the person at the top of the pyramid, therefore, the President of the Supreme Court. And what we have proposed in our bill, if this person has a confirmed indictment of a certain crime, he cannot remain in that capacity. So it's simply incompatible with us, with the reputation of ethics in the judicial system. So you have to have the highest standards of ethics with the President of the Supreme Court. And of course there's a precedent of innocence, to a final verdict. But when it comes to our case, the President of the Supreme Court, who has a confirmed indictment and continues to work. And imagine a person with a confirmed indictment, therefore, the President of the Supreme Court, going to the county court, who is being tried and can hold talks there. Is that imaginary? So, that he, with a confirmed indictment, passes to the county court, as President of the Supreme Court, doing his job. It's simply incompatible to us. And we ask that the Proposer think again, to install such a provision, as bdw has installed the attorney general in the same analogue situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73949	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply, the next replica, dear colleague Orsat Milenić, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73950	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Podolnjak, in much of what you said you agreed, however, would point out what you were talking about today and stressing the need for respect for European standards. European standards in the judiciary do not exist. The countries have significantly different systems and significantly different solutions. One standard for Europe, it's a quality judiciary. How do you get to him? We can come one way or another. You know it's very different yourself. We have also heard too many of these European standards, which have actually come from individual experts, who have often come from countries that do not have a very high level of justice. We have put a lot of things into the legal system, and today some of the problems that are being solved are just closed. From the composition of the DSV proposal for Europe, from the way, I don't know, selecting the President of Europe's courts, we can move on. But when you say who has it in Europe, it doesn't. Turns out there's something on you that doesn't exist anywhere else. So, I'd be very careful, as much as I agree with most of what you're saying, I think I know what you wanted, you wanted to say, we should pursue good standards, but Europe doesn't have a single standard. That's what you saw in these traffic lights that were done, you saw it now, here's the question of Poland, which is standard. One is thought in Brussels, Poland thinks another, most, some members will support it, some will not. I don't advocate Poland being right, we're trying to say that there's no standard like that. And that imposing some fictional standard on the Croatian judiciary has brought a lot of good, but also a lot of bad, which we are dealing with today. There are some situations that just... Here, thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73951	I thank my esteemed colleague Orsat Milenić, i.e. my colleague Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73952	Thank you. Of course, when we say such “European standards” of course there is no one system, which we could copy and apply and copy pastes in the Republic of Croatia, certainly not. But there are good practices that seek the independence of the judicial system, transparency in choice and appointment or resolution, especially judges, top officials, for example the President of the Supreme Court or the Attorney General. There are recommendations of Greka, therefore, groups of states in the fight against corruption, which are known, which have been published for several years, which we should have already fulfilled, so we haven't. There are deadlines we did not respect, there are deadlines, which are now, I think, somewhere in April 2018 with which we are very late. But we can't say that we're satisfied with the transparency of the election of top judicial officials, that's what we've seen with the President of the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, I think it's inevitable for the attorney general, although one transparent procedure is proposed but for another time, four years later, but not now, not today. We're very late. For the State Judiciary Council, definitely, I believe that we should have changed the Constitution and there would have been a consensus, for example, to remove two politicians from the State Judiciary Council. I do not see the need for two MPs from the parliamentary majority and the opposition to be there to remove a simple policy entirely from that body. Whether we're asked by the EU or someone else, but I don't see the need for those two politicians to be in that body, so that in some situations, they're too much for making some decisions, and that we're doing that in part anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73953	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Dolnjak for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73954	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Podolnjak. So with some things I think we all agree here on what needs to be done that certain shifts and changes are needed, but I can't always agree that whenever we do something, we have to come from zero to ten, and now the first step jumps to four and we say it's no good, come back, you didn't come up to ten. So we're never going to jump 16 feet [10 m] wide, I don't think there's a man in the world who could do that. So we have to move on what would be said gradually and admit that certain, and you mentioned in your statement that we are far from reforming that nothing of the law on criminal proceedings has touched, of course there is a lot of space yet, but let's now talk about this organisational as you yourself have stated that some things here that certainly want to speed up the conduct of courts, I think it's early justice, means the deadlines of the time period of the procedure itself, the uncertainty of the legal process that arises, ensure even burden and all that it takes to be done. So if we have now brought together certain courts here, and I repeat this from experience I know that the burden of misdemeanor courts cannot be nearly the same as municipal courts, without speaking to any other civil and any departments, that it is that if we give more work to certain courts with conjecture and education. We must not forget that someone who has worked for ten years in a criminal court certainly cannot be as good a judge as the one who works for ten years in civil, criminal or any other department. So that's what we have to consider, and that's where the presidents of the court will have a great responsibility. Of course there are a number of other things that concern counselors who do a lot of work, motivation, and I think that this is also one step and certainly one step that needs to be supported, but don't stop at it. That won't be enough, but it's certainly a good start and that we can certainly especially talk about demographic aspects and individual courts that are now being created that some positive shifts will occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73955	I thank my colleague Curai. A colleague's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73956	Dear colleague Curai. When we talk about these organisational matters, I only said that citizens will not benefit from it if we have been implementing organisational reforms for ten years and never ends. So it also says in this bill that these reforms started in 2008 and they were every few years. So the logical question is, I haven't been to the Parliament in the last ten years, but as further organisational changes are needed today, so everything we've done before obviously wasn't even quality. If we reduce the number of municipal courts, we rationalize the network, and now we decide to increase the number of municipal courts again. I'm just wondering if there's no indicator, so you don't have any single figures in your assessment of why we're doing it. So I and the Priors can't be against whether there's going to be a municipal court in any city where it's not now. So I'm not talking about certain cities at all because I don't have any insight into the data and the indicators of why this network is changing now. But you can see if the law goes into effect, for example, on January 1st of the following year, that we will carry out this reform there in 2019, so while everyone actually sits in their seats until these courts are joined, while new courts arise, as we address the issues of the existence of, for example, the High Violent Court of Justice will spend a great deal of time, organisational problems, and I don't think citizens will benefit from that. Who'll be to say it now is the end of organisational reforms let's go to those other issues a procedural solution that we're not dealing with right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73957	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica, respected counterpart Orsat Milenić, twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73958	... So of course fellow Bull, access to justice here we're talking about the judiciary may be as you suggest. [[Specially enabled.]] So let's spread the network as much as possible because it takes a certain number of citizens in one small segment. However, I must finally begin to think and see Croatia as a country of 4.2 million if there are so many of us in which if you want to have a quality judiciary you must surround it. Just like you do when you want to be treated... 100 or 200 of these operations won't go to the one who did ten of them. [[You don't understand the speaker because of the microphone.]] The same with the judiciary. If you want to get quality go to someone who works a lot... In order for this to be achieved, you must be in a position to surround the courts. [[You don't understand the speaker because of the microphone.]] And I'm sure every citizen you mention if he chooses whether to travel an hour to a court bus or take five minutes on foot, but when he travels an hour he'll get a judge who specializes in something, he'll get a judge who can consult with his colleagues in a big court and find a better solution, he'll choose this second. The average citizen of Croatia goes to court less than twice in his life, let's release the grantovnica, it will be dealt with as the minister said on the internet, and that is irrelevant, but you never go to the right court. When you were in criminal court, maybe... those people in the rules don't go. And because of that, setting up a system where you have unspeakable judges, different burdens are not a good solution. Let's think a little bit about quality, and quality is achieved by circulation. As you wish to have a hospital that is as big as possible and which provides the best possible service, it's the same with the court. Let's forget about when people walked and the courts were everywhere. Let's move, let's put them in one place to be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73959	I thank my colleague Milenić. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73960	Thank you very much. Col. Milenic, you were the minister of justice and in 2015 was a reform and so it was reduced to 24 municipal courts, but now they say change, to even now say in a statement that the problem is managing large courts such as Split. Now in the context of this proposal and they say we go to make Split 1 and Split 2, while in Dalmatia we have 80 thousand inhabitants, we have invested in the building in Sinj 10-15 years ago 15 million kuna, we have means, all the resources we need to have, we have the surface, we are larger than Međimurje County, more inhabitants, similar to Ličko-Senj County and he says, we have the Municipal Court of Split 1 and Split 2. So the absolute cause of these changes where they're talking about the reason why there's been an increase in 10 municipal courts is like a major burden on the management of that system. They made Split 1 and Split 2. Why couldn't Split and the Sinj Municipal Court be for the Dalmatian Zagora? So I'm explaining to you that this has been done absolutely illogically and it's not clear to anyone what was going to be done with this, absolutely. All the mayors and mayors, and even the mayor, but well, I'm sorry, we had a correct deal all along. However, those two hours before the agreement went to the minister and I am sorry too, my colleague Šipic, I see that he changed his mind, did not last 24 hours, where he was a firm stand for the municipal court in Sinj, not Split 2 because everything about Sinj was tied up. You know that neighborhood. And I don't see any reason. Or leave Split, as it was. They have now left in Split 1, Split 2, room by room. What's that? What are we talking about? So the absolute reason for this law, the amendment of this Law on Headquarterss and Courts, essentially, has lost its meaning. What is the area of Split Court 2? Split. One is also Split. And we have everything in Sinj. So, the center of the Dalmatian burns down the elements that mean, we haven't lost anything. The same number of courts as in the proposal, and this is only Split 1, Split 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73961	I thank my esteemed colleague Miri Bulju for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac will share the debate with a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar. Comrade Bulj and colleague Orsat, I would like to ask you to allow my colleague Bunjc to proceed with the debate, and you two find another time and another location for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73962	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. You brought us to the Parliament a mini reform. Okay, come on, the mini reform sounds weird, but it's got a coloquial name, of six laws. I tried to read your laws and I tried to read a public debate that was and did not essentially cause some major controversy, except that those who participated in this public debate therefore came to the conclusion that cosmetic changes were involved. I have to agree with that conclusion. Namely, because what are these laws about? So, this law is about whether we will have a court in Split or Sinj, whether a judge will advance to 15 or 30 days from now, whether the court documents will be digitized or not. So it's basically an organization and it's technical issues. Frankly, for the citizens, these changes are completely irrelevant. Because, first of all, citizens are interested in whether they are being tried quickly, whether they are being tried within the legal time limits, whether they are being tried legally, whether citizens have the means and means of legal protection and more importantly, whether they are equal before the law. They are particularly interested in amending an executive law that will never come to order, obviously, and especially not in the form in which it would really, rather than declarably protect the citizens. And now the question, after we know they're cheating on us, after we know we can't get to justice, whether I get a digitalized verdict or I get a paper verdict, or I get carved into stone, which I don't care if I know it's not fair. So, what's the point of me getting, I don't know, a verdict two miles from home if that verdict isn't fair. So, these laws deal primarily with form, not content, and I would like the Ministry of Justice to go in a different direction, which is that it respects the will of the citizens that we can read from official surveys, so not the Republic of Croatia, but that they come from the EU, where we can find out that about 70% of Croatian citizens have a negative view of the judiciary and that more than 90% of Croatian citizens think that there are privileged people in courts in the Republic of Croatia. This means, Mr. Bošnjakovic, that even HDZ voters think so and it is very interesting to know that the same surveys are conducted within the judicial circles themselves, meaning, among judges, employees, etc. and that they have an even worse view of the system in which they work than they do, the citizens themselves. One of the main culprits for such a bad picture is the long-term process. I'd like you to tell me how this reform speeds up the process? I don't know, in the case of Sanader, Bandic, Mamic, Vidosevic, whether the judgment of Calmeti or some other people against whom the verdicts have been passed for decades, whether or not some proceedings that have been pending for a very long time will be initiated, we have some parliamentary representatives among them, some have escaped, but may be thinking back, etc., or we will have a syncope epidemic that we see, that is spreading rapidly, and following this comes to a great number of statutes. How would you explain, Mr. Bosnakovic, the Maskarin case that went out of date? How would you explain the case of Diane Anicic, whose child died in the hospital, and the other one became a severe invalid who went into obsolescence? Will the case of Djura Gavrilovic go into oblivion? How come the Ante Jelavic case went out of date? How is it that the 2009 case of the murder of a Bulgarian student, Alexander Abramov, went into obscenity, how that the leaders of the Split Ironworks had ironed out official cards for 2 million kunas, and it went back into obscenity. And how is it that when Croatia has to pay compensation to the privatisation funds that participated in the coupon privatisation, then the Supreme Court receives a case that lasts 15 years from a pile of files and makes a verdict within 10 days. So the Supreme Court, which is allegedly buried in cases, can rule in 10 days, and when it's in the interest, so HDZ doesn't have to damage the ones he cheated on. And it is indeed a question of how we are tried and what we are getting through this reform. Among other things, you yourself claim by these documents that you've sent in that the offenders have too little to do. So why do these misdemeanors now that they're joining up, I don't know any criminal courts, I don't know why they don't speed up these jobs a little bit. Why don't these judges who aren't busy, and Croatia's number of judges is fourth in Europe, i.e. the second pardon, why don't we deal with the performance instead of dealing with public notebooks an imaginary occupation which essentially comes down to not doing anything and making millions. Now, that's an occupation you're giving some kind of special attention to. Go to the IRS, I believe you have ways of getting information from the IRS. Who are the richest rich people in Croatia? Public records, lawyers. What did they get rich on? On top of it. What are we discussing here? A court in Clay or a court in Sisak. So you're simply trying to show some kind of activity, and basically it's about throwing sand into the eyes and for the citizens nothing more important is going to change. I would also like to ask you how it is possible that working disputes must be completed within six months, and most of them take several years. I would also like to know how your mini reform will contribute to removing policy from the judiciary and especially from the DSV. And I would like to know how you comment on the June 2016 SOA report that there are 20 judges in Croatia who are difficult to corrupt and threaten the national security of the Republic of Croatia. So, let's say these are some questions that I would like to open, which I would like you to answer about this mini reform, how it, therefore, affects it. And one more thing and I'll end it now, I'll leave the word to Mr. Pernar. Today we had the Investment Act, better said the Realty Sales Act. But please tell me who's crazy to invest in a country where court disputes last longer than 20 years. Well, if I had a million euros, so normally to invest first in Austria, I'd invest in Slovenia somewhere. So who would bet here with you that you like me, it's like throwing fish into the sea with piranhas. You're out of money in one day. Who would give you money if you had it in your hands, that's the only way anyone can do it in a judicial system that works. And normally, as long as these problems in the judiciary are resolved, neither will the issue of the economy be resolved, there will be no investment. It's just a sale while there's something to sell, and it looks like we're almost done with family silver. Now I leave my word to Agent Pernar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73963	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Continuing, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73964	Thank you. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I have made a concrete proposal to amend the law in the procedure and that of the Courts Act, an article concerning the current inability of the damages to sue the judge who has damaged him with his unconscious or criminal work. So right now, the legal system is such that if I'm a judge and I make a verdict that damages you because of my mistake, I don't mistake you as a damage and I do you harm even in a criminal way, or criminally. You cannot, as a damage, sue the judge for damages but only the Republic of Croatia. Now why is that a problem? The problem is because it actually made the judges untouchable. I'll read you an article here under the heading of the next from Free Dalmatia. In two minutes, Judge Ivana Domic took my property of 150000 euros. According to a liberating verdict, Ivana Domic, the former head of the Municipal Court in Supetar, has caused an avalanche of violent reactions. According to Zlatko Babarovic of the island of Brac, he did not hesitate to say that he found the liberating decision embarrassing. And why is that? He says if it could pass in court, I'm ashamed to live in this country. A house of 100 square meters and a garden of about 1000 meters in Split Bay worth about 150000 euros illegally became the property of a woman who came to Brac 2 years ago. Domic's verdict states that buildings and the country have been awarded MB for 25 years which enjoyed the property uninterruptedly. The decision was put on the ad board and neither would I, nor my mother who was heir knew about it if people hadn't told me there were construction machines on the ground. I went to court then and saw the decision, and I also found out how the new owner of the country got a building permit. He says I went to the Split police and discovered that the owner of MB came to Brač for the first time in 2008 from Germany. How, then, for 25 years, she could have enjoyed the land uninterrupted. Indignant Babarovic, who testified at a trial in Sibenik when he was said to be literally ridiculed. At the Municipal Court in Supetar, he requested a repeat of the proceedings, and a case is under way, etc. etc. What am I trying to tell you? This is an example of Judge Ivana Domić. People who claim to have run out of property say she's responsible for it and the DORH thought her way of working was dubious, which is why the indictment was brought up and the trial was. However, the trick is to judge themselves. They set themselves up and judge themselves. And in 99% of the cases, the judges are being released, and you will very rarely see that some judge is in general and being prosecuted, let alone convicted. Here's another example. If you see a judge building a crime in a court of law and you report it to the court of the competent court, he doesn't have to forward it to the DORH immediately, not but he's passing it on, I don't know, to a higher instance above himself in the judiciary. So the whole system is designed to protect each other and here as far as Ivana Domić is concerned, whether she is guilty or not, I don't know, but it is evident that there are damages, or people who are damaged, and it is evident that the DORH finds that there is something questionable, or even criminal. But, like I said, the damageer, in this case, can't do anything, why? Because in the criminal proceedings, the judge is freed from one side, and he can't prosecute her in private. Why is that a problem? Ha, judge for yourself. You have a different situation. What if, say, a judge's trial goes out of date? And now the judge is objectively guilty, but you can't do anything about it. Why can't you do anything, because he's old-fashioned, bye-bye, amigo, goodbye. And even if he's guilty, he's not convicted, if he's not convicted, there's no crime, because anyone who isn't convicted is not guilty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73965	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We have 3 replicas of the presentation of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjec, the first replica, the esteemed fellow Falcon, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I'm glad you read the law, but I don't think you understand this set of laws, or this set of laws, but I don't think you understand any of the provisions, so I'll try to explain them to you. You said these were just cosmetic changes, affecting organizations, etc. I think these are the changes that are primarily directed at reorganizing the system. However, we cannot say that they do not influence. Especially when we're talking about misdemeanors. So you're the one who said that criminal judges should be rerouted to those areas where there's a lack of judges, a surplus of cases. Well, that's exactly the point. So the idea of this reform is that offenders are transferred to the violation departments of municipal courts that are to be formed, and that excess of these judges, to reroute to other proceedings, particularly the most, to the regulations of mandatory law and enforcement. So exactly the work you're talking about, it's precisely the idea of having more judges in charge. Here, that's exactly what we're talking about, and we got that information with the ministry. What is important, however, and what might be the problem is that these judges, who did not deal with this area of law, the more they educate, that's on the trail, someone I mean mention, I mean fellow Milenić or someone, that this particular education of these judges should be done, because it is infrequently quite different from what the mandatory right would be, so that these judges know how to handle these proceedings in a good way. Second, as far as depoliticisation is concerned, if the DSV, if you mean the part where the DSV says that 2 parliamentary deputies are sitting in the DSV, it's written in the Constitution, so it can't be the subject of legal changes, but it's something, because a man would have to change the Constitution, I think it's an item, Article 124. Just so it's clear, that it can't be the subject of an amendment to this law. And the third thing I wanted to point out is that what no one has touched so far in the debate, which is the way judges are elected, the progress of the criteria, etc. where we have some quite significant changes, which I think can contribute to improving that, means that the choice of judges is that they are the best elected and advanced to several courts, which is something that will raise the quality of the trial itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73967	I'd like to thank my colleague Falcone, the answer, my colleague Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73968	Thank you very much, Reverend Falcone. I would generally agree with your remarks, if they were really in the function of what you just said, which is that these excess courts, the extra judges, actually take the issue of execution and blockades. To move it away from the public notebooks. Because you, if you've ever spoken to a lawyer, he'll tell you to get that public notebook or license, that's for him the greatest success of his life. It's literally, I'm sitting, five trainees doing, signing some papers and making millions. These public notebooks have no other function than to tour public companies and to lick politicians there, to give them these and those posts of performance and when he gets the job done, he simply becomes a millionaire. I don't think that's fair, not only to citizens who are the most damaged, but not fair to the justice system itself. Because then it's allowed for some lawyer, whether he's a public notary, whether he's a lawyer, to make 100 times as much as a judge. You don't have that in any decent country on a globe earth. Your tariffs are about even everywhere. And especially since you don't have anywhere, you don't have any practice for judges to go to lawyers or public notebooks. It's gone, the judges are careers, everywhere in the world. And with us, of course, that when the judge sees this public notary there, I don't know, he drives a yacht, he does, and then he wants to become a lawyer. But it's going to be very hard for a public notary to become a judge. And on the other hand, I think those public notebooks, they really need to be removed for the benefit of the citizens. Here, take that opportunity, so with those extra judges covering their jobs, because I think there's also opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73969	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm gonna try to stick to this proposal a little bit. So this proposal is, you've spoken, and so we're presented, that this is a mini reform. However, I would say that this is much less than a mini reform, however, that this represents almost no reform, but what you said is that this is about cosmetic change. But with such cosmetic changes that are questionable, it will also bring citizens anything good. However, what is certain is that such a change in such an alleged mini reform will bring about a problem with the functioning of the system. Because every time you enter changes in the system, it leads to the system to stop at least for a certain period of time, and in this case I can predict with certainty that the system will stop working for several months while defining which, for example, the judge deployed at the Municipal Court in Rijeka will be in court in Crikvenica, who will be the judge of the Split Municipal Court in Split 1, Split 2. After that, the division of the file, etc. etc. So, when we talk about citizens' interests, they're not going to get anything from this because you even got a good point when we're talking about the Glyna court. Yes, of course it's easier for citizens to go to court in Clay. But from the perspective of citizens, it is equally important that the court that will judge him has experience, knowledge and if possible specialisation in the case he decides on, and the court in Clay will not be able to do so. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73971	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73972	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grbin, it would be as if the school reform were about counting teachers and benches, which is about the reform that Minister Bosnjakovic brought to us in the House. So it comes down to pure quantification. So it's about the summation, the seduction, but basically there's no quality steps. Among other things, these promotions that are proposed, so basically you have to have a certain number of units without anyone asking what quality is. And it's not the same, so whether the object is simple or the object is complex, it's not the same if someone has experience I don't know three years old or is 13 years old, and here they keep everything to say unify, they want to introduce an equation where at the end of the day the minister can operate in the way it fits. I would like to believe that after this reform, political cleanups will not actually happen because whenever we have some new organisational forms, when we have some kind of transfer, mergers then it can always happen that those who are not at will, so politics goes up. And that, we can see it from some of the examples we see in judicial practice, and I repeat once again the most dissatisfaction of the employees themselves in the judicial system of which almost one third is considering leaving the job. And that's not what I said, that's not even the Living Wall, so that's the official statistics coming from the EU. So when a third of the employees want to escape then it's quite clear that the judiciary is in a very serious crisis, and as you yourself said these changes, technical changes will obviously not bring its resolution,... Minister Bošnjakovic spins in the media and he will turn out to be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73973	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73974	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bunjac. So, I think I agree with you and most of us here that neither we nor any of us, nor the citizens, can be satisfied if some procedures last for many years and surely this reform has gone in the direction of achieving as much efficiency as possible in the functioning of the courts, and certainly it is one of the measures that will contribute not only to efficiency but also to rationalisation and this merger of courts. Of course, as a colleague said, that the extra footage found in the infraction courts will be redeployed where there is a lack of personnel, and that is exactly how it will be achieved to speed up the resolution of certain files where there has been a stalemate. Surely it will contribute to the speed of resolution and efficiency, and I must also say that you need to know that there are judicial tasks, public records. So you can't talk about public notebooks like this because it's really not appropriate. Public notebooks don't just sit there and beat up the big seal on which they confirm something. They have a number of competences prescribed by law and above all have to meet certain conditions in terms of expertise in order to be able to conduct these tasks at all. And their task is not the only thing you've talked about, and just as it is about improving your performance, it will certainly contribute to a better system of evaluation of judges, which will contribute to the safe and more efficient performance of the judges themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73975	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73976	Well, distinguished representative Jelkovac, you may be right in one section about these public notes, but the fact is that they multiply like mushrooms after the rain, as simple as these demand collection agencies. So one Stockholm city in Sweden has five public notebooks. I'm sure there's more than five of them in Chakovec where I live. So that's the rate, the city has 16000. So it's becoming simple now. Here I was talking to the people who are in it, saying it's just, just to get it and I've solved all the life problems. I would like to ask further about the judicial reform of Minister Bosnjakovic how it is possible to remove immunity from the representative, and it is not possible to remove immunity from the judge. I'd like to ask why judges don't have to publish property cards, and all the other government officials have to. I'd like to ask why the whistle-wrestle law isn't passed or will you at least support our whistle-whispering law because it's known that one-third of the court's disputes are going down, because people are afraid to testify in court. So people simply don't dare to be witnesses, and at least they dare to be witnesses to criminal acts in public services. And I'm also interested in, when you're improving court practice, why for years you've refused to pass the Law on judicial warlocks, when known, to say in Croatia with these land estimates, house estimates are tremendously manipulated and, among other things, you've been warned by former CNB Governor Zeljko Rohatinski, who I don't have a good opinion on. But here, when he's talking about it, maybe we could at least listen to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73977	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Now we have a replica to present a respected colleague of Pernar's, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73978	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you were saying something about the possibility of judgmental damages for the work of a judge, so here's clean, let me explain some things. So, one criminal liability, for which there are prescribed procedures of the State's attorney's office, etc. Second, civil responsibility. Civil liability may arise from established criminal liability but it does not have to. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. in the Courts Act, Article 105 clearly states that in the case of unlawful or What is also prescribed is that the state in that case has the right to so-called. a regression request from the judge. So the State that paid compensation for the unlawful or incorrect treatment of the judge may claim further compensation for that treatment from that judge. Now, it would be interesting for me to see how many such cases there are in practice, I mean, we discussed on the board, but just so we know, about how much it applies, it doesn't apply, and maybe, if that liability provision should maybe be extended a little bit, not just for extreme negligence, that would be discussed. As for public notebooks, it means, just to say, a public notary can't become just like that. Here, I come today and become a public notary, which the state determines according to some criteria, and it's not easy to become a public notary. So we can't exactly say that they become, like, mushrooms after the rain. As far as the public record is concerned, there's just one more thing to say, about not forgetting, these very proposals of the law, predict the publication of property cards, which speaks enough about whether or not someone has read it. So that's exactly what these changes bring, so the announcements of the judge's property card, and apparently some who claim to have read the law, are not. Finally, as far as the public notation is concerned, it exists in the case of a credible document, however, what is important and what is rare when it is stated that the party always has 8 days to object to such a solution. And then, this case goes to trial and court. Now why doesn't this happen, in which cases it doesn't happen, whether citizens are undereducated about their rights, these are things that should be discussed, but not in their own way, but with arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73979	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone, the answer of my esteemed colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73980	Dear fellow Sokol, you say the party can complain within eight days, but you're naive, naive in your surface and ignorance. In Croatia, a mass debtor has been falsified. And then what was it? Then a registries register was introduced. And when a registries register was introduced, then it could no longer have come with a counterfeit debt and take out a million kunas from your account. And then the counterfeiters figured out, okay, there's a registries register, but now if we can't falsify the debtors, we're going to falsify the decision on the business, my friend. And then what, comes, fakes everything and stamps the public notary and lawyers and fakes whatever they want and comes simply to the FINA, and FINA is not required by official duty to verify whether the solution to the performance is falsified or not. And then there's the people with the FINA, and I talked to the gentleman who works at the FINA. He said, we were looking, we asked to introduce a register of these executive solutions, to stop crime, as crime with the debtors stopped by introducing a register of those debtors. But, says the public notary lobby, it simply affected that such a solution would not be made. And you, until you become the victim of such a crime, as many have already become, that is, until you become convinced all of us here together, the system works and that everything is fine. And then these unfortunates, whose counterfeit solutions take the money, fina still charges them the expense of being executed without any legal basis. But you don't care, you don't care. You've come here to defend a system that's indefensible, and you know it yourself. Because if he were defensive, there wouldn't be this many people in the blockade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73981	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this answer. Since it's nearly 20.00 hours, and the unfaithful Tomes don't believe until they put their finger in the wound, I'm fixing a little longer break, I hope the fellow bridgemen will be pleased. By morning, by 9.30 p.m. when we resume the plenary session. [[In 8:15, you said.]] I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Session interrupted at 20.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73982	So we continue with the debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Jelkovac and after her respected counterpart Simic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73983	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is an extension of the session, and I would like to say something about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, and then after me, Col. Simic will refer to this third draft of the Law. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts adopted in 2013 and amended in 2015 and 2016 twice, I can say that, in fact, the reform implemented by the Law itself has not achieved all that it wants to achieve in the judiciary. Of course none of us, including our citizens, are satisfied and still with the long-standing court proceedings that sometimes take over 10 years and that we all want to move in this regard, so that is one of the objectives of the proposed amendments to these laws that we are discussing today. I must also say that by bringing together, in fact, the criminal and municipal courts will ensure, in addition to reducing the number of courts and the optimal use of staff in courts, because the practice so far has shown that there is a serious reduction of infringement cases, so that this rationalisation is justified, and on the other hand, all those misdemeanors who have done so far will be able to be all the excess of these judges rerouted to those branches of justice in which there is a deficit of personnel and a greater burden, so that it will certainly increase efficiency in that act. It is also proposed to speed up the process of appointing judges through the reduction of decision-making deadlines, and it is also a significant change regarding judicial advisers who, in fact, have not been able to make any progress in their professional career, and therefore are proposed to introduce a new job as a judicial adviser – a specialist, which, of course, will allow these people to also progress in their career and to be further motivated for a better, more effective approach to work. This will be done, or proposed in accordance with what is provided for in the State Board for Advisors. What is also significant, which the minister also spoke of yesterday, is ensuring easier access for citizens to courts. Of course, we are aware that we cannot allow for courts to exist in every smaller environment, but it is also important to allow citizens not to have to travel 50-60 and more km to the court in order to do what they need, so that through the proposal of this law, there is, in fact, a serious focus and one support to making better use of permanent services that are essentially, past reform into networks of courts introduced as some transitional period, and this bill actually gives them weight and thus will enable citizens to not have to travel and have the costs to go to courts to resolve their rights. What I also want to point out is that rationalisation will also be achieved by better management of courts, and this is also foreseen to combine the functions of the Director and the Registrar in order to affirm the fact that the Director will manage the court and thus we will no longer have in this role both the President of the Court and the Director and the Registrar. What is also significant is the definition of clear criteria and procedures for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which also contributes to making the procedure more transparent and quality. In line with the recommendations of GRECO, it is also proposed to limit the mandate to a maximum of two mandates. With regard to strengthening the independence of the judiciary, it is proposed to abolish the decision so far that the Minister of Justice appoints officers of the President of the Courts when their term of office expires and, meanwhile, the State Judicial Council does not appoint a new President, except in the case of the appointment of the perpetrators of office with courts in the establishment. Also, what I want to say is that it is very important in the proposal for this Law, which is to amend the way judges are evaluated, raise transparency in respect of the ethical code and strengthen redefining the role of judicial inspection. As regards evaluations, clear criteria have also been introduced, and the aim is to ensure that judges who are key to introducing more objective criteria for self-progressing judges to multiple courts are as objective as possible. What I would say in the end and related to that part and what I propose to the Proposer to consider between these two readings, which is the possibility that, in fact, we should change the way in which framework criteria are adopted and methodologies to simplify the procedure and thus ensure their timely adoption and harmonisation because, in fact, we have shown in practice that the existing way of adopting framework criteria for the work of judges and the methodology itself is not satisfactory and that in practice, we have an inadequate evaluation of judicial work and because these rules and criteria are not in line with both procedural and other legislative amendments in time. And that has led to dissatisfaction among the judges themselves. What I would like to say briefly, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, is that, in fact, these amendments are also proposed to raise the quality and geographical representation of the State Judicial Council, because so far we have had a situation, in fact, it was in practice that it was concentrated in the selection of members of the State Judicial Council, judges from the largest centres of Split and Zagreb. Therefore, it is proposed to introduce electoral units for 3 representatives of the county courts, Zagreb, central Croatia, northeastern Croatia and the surrounding Croatia. The prevention of arbitration, the appointment, is also one of the objectives of these amendments, which means that the handling of these changes would in fact be more significant to attach importance to the points that judges have in the appointment, and not that decision, as could be made so far, regardless of the number of points achieved. This would certainly contribute to clearer rules on how and how they can be advanced. It is also important to strengthen responsibility, the new authority of the State Judiciary Council is proposed, to decide, to grant approval to judges, to perform other tasks and services with the judicial duty. It is also proposed to submit, manage, actually control property cards, analoguely to what we have for state officials and in accordance with, in fact, the rules prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, means that we will also have published their property cards, which also contributes to the transparency of the entire system. There is also a proper evaluation in the work of the State Judiciary Council, because so far we have had the situation that all members have been released from certain jobs, so in this proposal this applies only to the President of the State Judicial Council, who is in fact the most committed. We are sure, therefore, that these amendments to the law will have its effect and the HDZ Club will therefore support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73984	You can have a colleague, Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73985	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In the next few minutes, I will present the positions of the HDZ Club of Representatives, on the proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, and I will start with some existing state, reform and history of reform, as implemented since 2010. I'm going to make some kind of amendment, which is proposed by this new law, and I'm going to give one conclusion on the whole law. According to the current Law on Areas and Seats of Courts in the Republic of Croatia, 24 municipal courts, 22 criminal courts, 15 county courts, 8 trade courts and 4 administrative courts are currently established, for which the seat and the area of their jurisdiction is determined. The rationalisation of the network of courts itself began in 2008 and 2009 and continued in 2010 and 2011 in 2015 and is also important in particular for county courts where local jurisdiction of county courts is determined. We have, therefore, later on, from these county courts, a provision which enters into force on 1.1.2016, which is important in this bill, that each county court is in charge of deciding in the second instance of appeals against the decision of any municipal court in criminal and civil cases, except in working, land and family cases, for which only certain county courts are responsible, and this is defined in this new draft of the law. Based on analysis and statistics, in particular data from the report of the Supreme Court on the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia, and taking into account the efficiency of the judicial network, the need for its change has been demonstrated. The government of the Republic of Croatia wants to enable more rational use of judges and official potentials, wants to make it easier for citizens to access the courts, and a whole series of other positive effects will be achieved in the proposed mini reform. Why this bill is actually passed shows concrete data on problems in certain areas. Major problems in the trial and in the management of the court have particularly great courts. For example, we can take an area, in fact a river court, where several permanent services create a large territory on which that court operates and works, and a large number of judges cause major problems. Therefore, the promoter identified the problem, which seeks to resolve the establishment of a new court in Crikvenica, the new Municipal Court in Crikvenica, and I believe that this is a good solution. The court will be available to a number of citizens, especially citizens from the area, therefore, from the Gorski Kotar and who in this case would deploy the court in Rijeka, especially from the area of the island of Krk and Rab and the area of Senj and Novi Vinodolski. When new courts are set up, and you will see that in this bill, the proposer plans them, therefore, to establish 10, as a basic criterion, therefore, the applicant's area of 50,000 inhabitants, and each court must have at least 12 judges for its establishment. The next reform to be addressed by this law is the reform of the infringement courts where it is predicted, so the merger of municipal and criminal courts, which reduces the number, so the courts that we have 24 municipal, 22 violations, will now have a total of 34, so the municipal court with specialised infringements. This merger is justified in the fact that in 2016 the difference in the case was, therefore, 13300 cases in the Court of Justice in 2015. In 2017, this number, so the cases in the criminal courts, fell by another 7, 7 and a half thousand. It is important to note that there is a new Commercial Court in Dubrovnik. It is rational because of the traffic connection, i.e. the lack of communication problems between the Commercial Court in Split and the permanent service of the Commercial Court, i.e. in Dubrovnik. It is important to note that this law provides, therefore, funds in the budget, that funds are provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this law and that they will Thank you very much. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] A party of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will accept such a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73986	Let's go to the replicas. First of all, he's a esteemed colleague of the Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73987	Here's after trying to make this so-called. mini judicial reform we are discussing in the late nights that we have opposed and yet you have decided to present to the Croatian public what you called a mini judicial reform. I would have a problem with what you colleagues of Jelkovac were talking about, and that's the judge's assessment. I believe that the evaluation of judges is exactly the focus of the problem, because it does not exist for all judges, but only for those who are running for senior court. And I'm asking why it hasn't been introduced, means the continued evaluation of all judges. And I'm still curious to know what the measures you've foreseen to address this issue of statute of limitations and cases that have gone out of date. So we don't have continuous monitoring and evaluation of judges. And once again, and according to these provisions, we will leave again to the State Judiciary Council some discretionary right, and again the judges will be promoted on the basis of some kind of agreement that has a major impact on politics in the State Judiciary Council. Take a good look at how this is proposed, so you will see that no progress is made with what is proposed will be achieved. And right now, MOST is through the State Judicial Council Act, which we've referred to in the procedure and all the laws we're going to refer to are actually the right judicial reform, not this camel that we've been presented here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73988	Answer, colleague Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73989	Thank you very much, President. So, last night, it wasn't our intention to discuss these laws in the late hours. It was actually a situation that you wanted to provoke with your behavior, so you simply took a lot of breaks, and it seemed to me that there were seven breaks yesterday in which nothing important was said that you would have to interrupt the debate and the session, wanted to tighten the point that was before. So instead of starting to discuss this in the afternoon, we started in the evening. Of course we don't want to go down to that level of debate with you and prove who's right. I am convinced that all of these absurd situations that you are leading to with your behaviour and abuse of certain institutions of the current Rules of Procedure are actually going to be resolved when we bring in the new Rules of Procedure. And in fact, I'm sure now that we should have just gone to the Rules of Procedure because you've proven it by your behavior. And as for the evaluation of judges in this bill, it is very clear how they will be evaluated and in line with what. What we are proposing as a club is to try to redefine between the two readings also the role of the Ministry of Justice in this process of adopting acts, framework criteria for the work of judges and methodologies given their responsibility in the whole process for the entire system to make it even more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73990	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73991	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Jelkovac, I personally will not have any special amendments to these bill proposals but I would like to say two comments. The first comment is about the work of courts as such. A reasonable trial is sometimes a trial within an unreasonable time frame. I don't know what can be done about it, but surely something can be done. Among other things, it can be kind of prescribed, in a way, to make senior courts a little more courageous in making decisions. Because often the higher courts return to the lower level, to re-determining some judgments that they disagree with, and they could bring the right word to speed up the process themselves. Well, here's the Franak case where the Constitutional Court, even the Constitutional Court could have passed the acquis, but it wasn't, it was returned to the Supreme Court, so the Supreme Court went back to the High Court of Commerce. So now it is possible for the High Court of Commerce to return to Judge Radovan Dobronic's first degree again the whole case which would not be good. Here in this sense something can be done safely and prescribed to make it faster and more efficient. And secondly, I believe that through constitutional changes, the State Judiciary Council should be resolved to be more controlled by citizens, under more direct control of citizens. Because citizens entering the State Judiciary Council is not a guarantee that they are representatives of the citizens. The guarantee that some people would be representatives of citizens would certainly be more if it were done through civil society, so it would certainly be good to decide through constitutional changes that two members of the Judicial Council should be from civil associations. One member to be, for example, for the protection of consumers because it is a very broad area, and another member to be for the protection of human rights and civil rights in general. It means from associations like that that deal with such rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73992	Thank you. Before responding to the replica, I welcome the second group of students and students of the School of Fashion and Design from Zagreb. Welcome! Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73993	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague. So I agree with you in the conclusion that sometimes, in fact, more than sometimes, court proceedings last too long and beyond what is considered a reasonable deadline. So I also believe that all these reforms that have been undertaken in the judiciary so far have been aimed at improving the situation in this regard. Of course, no one is satisfied and at least citizens, but we can't be with that condition either, but surely we should do everything possible in the future to produce even more visible results. Perhaps you should consider amending some of the provisions in the CAP. As for your proposal to amend the Constitution in order for representatives of certain citizens to join the DSV instead of representatives, look, I don't share your position here. I believe that representatives are elected representatives of the people. Each association is an association of citizens where citizens join themselves with their own free will depending on their own interests and we cannot choose two associations that will then have their representatives in the DSV. I understand your intentions and intent, but I don't think that would be the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73994	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73995	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Jelkovac. I would refer to your introduction where you said that opposition against these changes. So as a club, we haven't even discussed it yet, namely we haven't discussed it here, and what I already said yesterday and suggested, everything that's good we'll absolutely support. A whole series of things in this law have good things that make good changes, but what we've been doing so far, you've seen on committees, and you've proposed certain changes to make these laws as good as possible. It is of interest to all of us, and I don't think that we should share because we have a common interest, which is that the judiciary provides citizens with the best possible service and I am convinced that we can come to a better solution through both discussion and debate in the Assembly. So we're not a priori against because something is proposed by the government, we're against what's wrong, that's what I'm going to say in the debate. Everything that's good we'll support as we've done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73996	The answer of my colleague Jelkovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73997	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague. I really can't remember right now that in my debate I said it was a trial against, but maybe I was unconscious or it was a trap, but it wasn't my intention to tell me if I didn't know if it was against or not, we'll see it at the vote. So if I did, here's a real apology, it was a lapus. So we both didn't have on the committees that discussed all these laws, and I know that you personally and as a former minister had certain concrete proposals that you made at the committee meetings, but you also said that with some changes that were introduced you were satisfied, and I really believe that some of the changes proposed by these amendments in all these six laws will really be good and will contribute to better efficiency, efficiency and transparency of the judiciary itself. And of course, this is also the first reading, and until the second reading, I believe that the Proposer will consider all the proposals and those who might accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73998	We are now going with one replica for colleague Marko Simic, it is the respected Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u73999	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shimic. At the end of your presentation, you mentioned exactly this connection between lawless and municipal courts, so I wanted to give you two more minutes to discuss it and discuss it. You mentioned the very reorganization of courts, statistics on the burden of courts and judges precisely in municipal and criminal cases, and how much this integration will bring benefits, but yet on the other hand, there is one concern for judges who may be there for a decade, twenty years on certain cases, i.e. Areas right, is it going to be a burden on them so that they can adapt quickly even though we know they're lawyers, that there's a judicial exam, that the judges shouldn't have any particular difficulties, but we still have to be careful whether it affects the quality of tomorrow and the court decisions exactly this connection, so I'm interested in your opinion as a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74000	Answer, here you go, fellow Shimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74001	Dear colleague Bacic. Of course, in my presentation on behalf of the club, I made a proposal to the Proposer of this Law on the abolition of criminal courts or the merger of criminal courts with municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, and I cited statistics that really show that more in the future, through which year, there will be no legal justification for the existence of infringement courts for the reasons of the reduction in the number of cases precisely in such courts. We see that the reduction in cases from 2016 to 2015 is the difference of 13 thousand, from 2016 to 2017 is about 7, 7.5 thousand. I believe, and the promoter recognized this problem that even in the years to come it will continue. The judges are therefore not only this reform and only this bill recognises the fact that something in the judicial system and in the network of courts must be changed. They became the case in every report that has been set both municipal and county and all courts therefore also submit to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia a network of courts, and then to read that such trends are present in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. As for the adjustment of judges, I believe that, as a lawyer with this much experience, I can't really discuss it because it would be even an insult to a judge who's been working for 10 or 20 years, that I should say that he may not be doing his duty here today or that he won't be doing it well tomorrow. I believe, therefore, that the Proposer, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will recognise this problem of the integration of criminal judges to work in the municipal court and that the award of the case will take care of what areas they come from and that according to this merger and work on a particular education of judges, on their affirmation in the new system, and that this system will liven up, that it will bring certain savings and make this whole system, so the judiciary much more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74002	Thank you. We're going to another debate now. SDP counseling club. Dear colleague Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74003	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers, your associates, I welcome you all very much. So as I said before, this is a topic that we all need to be together and where we all are and that's our obligation as a representative is to do everything to make the judiciary a better service to our citizens. At this point and also we all have to be aware that it's not the case. The citizens are not satisfied, neither can we. Today it is popular to talk, there will certainly be a lot to talk about about the European Commission's report, so I will start with that, and I will say at a political level that the report speaks precisely about the poor work of the government with bad policies. However, to return to our laws that are here before us, there is an exception and this report speaks in perhaps the best tones of the situation so far, about what was done in the judiciary. And you, when you look at that report, you see that the judiciary has started to stand out, which may not be good, but it stands out in a better direction than other sectors. And then we can think about what our other sectors are like when citizens aren't so happy with the judiciary, but the report says well. And that's a good thing it's done so far. And that goes well for you, Minister, because the report shows that the cooperation that has been taken is good and that some of the measures you are proposing are well assessed. And that's good and that's absolutely something we need to support. However, I will continue to refer here, the report also, so here we are talking about restructuring the network of courts. The report also says, you have on page 13, that the reformed network, therefore, is this existing, effective and gives good results. So this is what the European Commission's report tells you. Then what are we doing? You're here proposing for something that they say is reformed and they're giving good results, you're proposing the return of 10 municipal courts, and that's something we can't agree on. Trend across Europe is a reduction in the number of courts, circulation and specialisation. It doesn't matter to our citizens, and the good justice system doesn't indicate that you have it in front of your own house and that at 5 minutes away, the good judiciary is obvious to get a good service, a good judgment, fast. You need a bigger court for that, you need a specialization. If you reduce courts and increase numbers, that's not going to happen. I'm afraid of the opposite effect, too. Of course, it's one political thing where we think in one way, you think in another, time will show what it is. And it's safe to have your arguments and I'll call you back for talking to the boards to give us all the information on boards to see where we are. So, I'm letting you maybe I'm the one doing the rest of this, maybe you are. But be very careful because this country has too many, too many territorial ones, there are too many structural units, we're always dividing. There's no specialization in that division, there's no writing, there's no quality. And that's something that's our characteristic of the land, that we can say from the community, anywhere. We're in courts, and it didn't start in our term, it started in yours and before you, yet we managed to fight to get a slave. I'm not sure it's a good trend to go back now, but think about it and see. There's something else I'm going to tell you that's a lack, you don't deal with county courts. County courts, we have 15. According to this, we're going to have 34 let's say first degree court. At 34 we have 15 County, that's a ratio that's not healthy, you have to have a lot less county. The number of county courts is far too large, too big for a country the size of Croatia, too big for what we have in Croatia. I'll give you one piece of information, Slavonski Brod County Court, first degree criminal, you know how many cases there are in 2017? 11. You know how many county judges work on these cases? Six. So this country pays six county judges to solve 11 cases in a year. And that's something that has to be addressed in any change. And that's what I see as the future, I see as something that's missing here. You may have it in your plan, but it's something we need to talk about. Maybe they don't need to be lifted, maybe some people need to change their jurisdiction so they don't have a criminal record. But it's unacceptable for me that for 11 cases, not by judge, colleagues and colleagues, for the whole court, 11 cases in a year. We're holding six county judges. Do you know how much pay is? And those people could do something else. And then somewhere else we're getting old and we've got a surplus here. That's what's not addressed. But I'm saying, maybe it's the next phase, you'll tell us for sure. What I agree with in principle is criminal courts. And yes, in some vision, it's good for them to drown. But I'm going to tell you why I'm not sure this step is what we're doing right now, and I think you're kind of admitting it because you're not going to the end. So you don't cancel the Criminal Court in Zagreb, you don't cancel the High Violent Court. So we leave a mistrial part of it alone, but everywhere else we fit it into the community. I think a much better approach would have been if you'd done it in two steps. So in one step, you've made it possible to move all the misdemeanors to the number that's too high, because the fact is that we have a surplus, and that you've allowed them to move to municipal courts. That would achieve whatever effect you want. So you'd get judges on municipal courts, who would raise, speed up because they'd be dealt with more, so the cases would be better dealt with. They would keep that part of the evil courts, which were also judges, who had been built and who wanted to do so, and for which there was room and space to be done. And then in the next phase, what should be the next phase? What is also a Croatian problem, reduce what is considered a case of judgment. Because it's something that can be acted on infringing courts. The fact is, we're a country where too many cases, which aren't supposed to belong, end up in courts, right here in this segment, and I see there could have been a shift. And so you could have come to this solution in phase two, but you don't challenge something that I don't think will give a good effect. So, it's up to you to think about going like this or not, but I'm saying, in leaving the offenders in Zagreb, leaving the High Violent, it says that you don't completely end them, then going all the way, end them completely. Or go through two stages. I repeat, we all have different views, this is kind of our view, which we think would give a much better result. But why is this important to mention too? Because one problem that is not addressed here is not the direct issue of these laws, and these are the salaries of first-degree judges. First of all, you have a difference in these salaries between violations, municipal and administrative. They're all first-degree. It's something that's been going on for a long time, I don't mean to you as an objection, but at some point it should start to work out. That's not addressed here. Secondly, we have and don't forget, we all, when we have a problem, where are we going? We're going to court. We expect the judge to listen to us first and foremost, and it's going fast. These are people who've been in prison for ten years, people who judge, sometimes tried for billions and whose wages haven't touched them in any way in years. And that's bad. It's a bad message to people who are in the system because they don't have a solution. You get paid and you know that she'll practically end up with you, if you don't go to the County Court, and there's no more because she's counter-surgeoning and she's got to counter-inflicted, there's no solution. And we don't address it as a society. And all of us when we have a problem, we'll go to the judge and expect it settled. And wages are below all levels, first-degree courts. And that's a bad thing and she needs to be addressed if we're gonna move forward. The country stands decent, we have economic growth, we spend on all sides, realistically, so I don't see why you can't program for this? One of the solutions is the judicial ranks, where you would allow judges to advance and here is the Law on Courts, progress to the same degree. So someone through a career doesn't have to go to a higher court, because there's no place to go, but to do it in his court. It's something we've been working on in the mandate, we haven't had a chance to move on, but that's something I'm asking you to do, because that's perspective, there's no room at second degree for everyone. But you have to give people the opportunity to advance their careers, often her and the financials. I also disagree with this emphasis of permanent services, I think that permanent services should disappear in perspective. What I miss about the law is fateful days. It's much cheaper than permanent service and gives citizens a much better service. Which means, if you don't have enough items in one space to take on some island, here's Vis, you don't have enough cases to have a court and you don't need to have one. But isn't a much better solution for a judge from Split, two or three days a month or a week, depending on how many cases he has to solve and come back. We don't need a court for that, we don't need a permanent service. It's cheaper, better and better quality for citizens. And that is something that the Croatian judiciary should function. And you know who else that's good for? For the judges, because someone's gonna get a diary, they're gonna do the job, sometimes the environment changes, and they're gonna see something else, and it's good for them. I know, my, our experience was that everyone was very happy to go into it. So that's one shift, which I miss here, and that would be better than fortifying permanent services because they don't really need us in this number in the long term. I've talked about the details of a lot of things on the board, so I'm not going to repeat it now, because your associates have actually noted, every single one of the best things that the law does is to regulate the election of the Supreme Court president, and we've definitely been deficited so far, and that's an excellent shift. There are other things that are very good and that I commended and here I say and laws bring a lot of good, but here I'm going to point to maybe two things that I don't think are good either. First, it is the abolition of the possibility of the minister of justice giving an opinion on the choice of the president of the court. So, I think it's a very bad step back. The opinion of the Minister of Justice is in no way an intrusion into the independence of the judiciary, as the DSV chooses a minister at its own free will. But you know what in DSV. means the opinion of the judiciary? This means that someone who is in charge and authorized to control the judicial administration, who has an inspection under him, is on the court's inspection, very often gives an assessment of the work of that president, some kind of court, because they do not judge. But it gives what the ministry is responsible for and what's important for the President of the Court and it's democratic control, because when you give it, which you've chosen from the citizens, then you say it on behalf of the citizens, you any minister. When it's not there, then the power of judgment is even more closed and it's actually more self-determined. So, I'm not in any way for that to move. Perhaps it's unusual for someone who is in opposition, because we, as in the opposition, should want to take as much power as possible in your position. But it's not like that, I look long-term. This is a good shift and quality country with more successful judiciarys have no closure, and we're building it completely. No good-judicial country has a system according to which the judicial authority chooses everything for itself. It doesn't have a single country with a quality judiciary. It was an EU experiment conducted in Croatia. The results we all see and live, they're not good. This is a small step that I think you're going backwards instead of staying, that you might develop these reports that they're even better, that they're public and that they're affecting the DSV as well. So if someone voted in the DSV for someone who's a bad president, and you gave the parameters, so let's explain it. That's good. I think that's where the ministry should be as strong as possible, not as weak as possible. Other things concern, the colleague mentioned framework criteria and could place a mechanical choice on DSV at least I'm not sure it's constitutional in relation to the Constitutional Court's decision on the Coric case, but you have the next problem. The current standards are not good, this will not give you a good result. Without changing the way you evaluate your work, this will give you a bad result. So don't be half-assed. Either you go all the way or you don't. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74004	Thank you, fellow Milenic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Before the replica, I congratulate all my colleagues on Women's Day. Now we can start with the replicas. The first replica is from a colleague of Steve Culey's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74005	Dear Vice President, colleague Orsate Milenic, Minister of Justice in the past government, someone far away. It's clear to me that there's a lot of problems in the judiciary that you might have been able to solve, and you haven't. And you've had some escapades in your ministry, especially when in 2014, you've been rationalizing and reorganizing the judiciary, in a way that you've tried less to connect the larger in the process of joining the larger ones, i.e. You have passed the Vinkovci municipal court and the County Municipal Court in Vukovar. It's understandable to me that you can convert from a smaller bowl into a bigger one, but from a larger one you can go to a smaller one. There was no rationalization at all, you just increased all travel expenses, judges of the living room, and especially those who were the most damaged in these procedures, and these were those who were in the process or convicted, accused or not knowing what else. So the one from Cvelferia, from the Strošins, if you know where the Strošins are. The scavengers are up there somewhere, and Vukovar's down here. So this one from the Strošinacs instead of going to the County to court or to Vinkovce to court he had to go to Vukovar, so all the witnesses, so the state lawyers and everyone had to come to Vukovar and that all the cases were both in labor disputes and in the penitentiary handed over to the Vukovar judges to solve it. It's all the force of the bus and the cars that have been pouring into Vukovar every day. I'll only read you those, the population that was there. Municipal Court of Vukovar 31670 inhabitants, Vinkovci municipality court gravitated 82032 inhabitants And the Municipal Court of Mayors 49085 [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: A fellow Culej, time. Excuse me.]] Let's go from the smaller bowl to the bigger one, not the bigger one to the smaller one. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74006	Thank you. My colleague Milenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74007	So here's the deal. I told you that what we did then you have here as one of the brighter points in the European Commission's report. So it's someone who looks at us from the side and says, that's one, that's good and gives effect. We didn't follow the criteria of politics, not this one, but we went to make sure there was one municipal court in the county. That was also recognized by your HDZ colleagues who were sitting here at the time with the moss or whether they were for or were abstentions, no one was against it. So no one in the assembly was against it. Yeah, and that results. You know why? Because it was conducted objectively. And the buses that go, don't talk. The average Croatian citizen goes to court less than twice in his life in any role. So people don't go to court that often. When you go to the hospital if it's easier for a sick man to get to a hospital that's bigger, bigger in one place or more healthy in court, just think about it. No, it's the quality of the court that matters to you. The criteria can be reversed, but then they collapse at the level of all Croatia. When you have a system, you set it up for the whole country. And that's why we went and told the county. Somewhere it was like in this case, I'm aware that in this case it was bigger, smaller. But everywhere else was the other way around. And he started giving good results. If you're doing an exception in one place, then you have to do it everywhere. And then what's going to happen now is that someone's going to ask why Crikvenica, why not Nova Gradiška, why this place, why not this and never end. And this started and this results. But this is your opinion, this is mine, and we can talk about it all the way. You will stay with yours, I will stay with mine. But look at the numbers. The numbers, look at the numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74008	Thank you, fellow Milenić. The next replica of counterpart Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Milenic, you were the minister of justice in the past government and you well know the old saying as many laws as possible is less justice. Now, I like your thesis that there's no specialization, no quality promotion. And that's right, I agree with that. Here it's said in this package of amendments to these laws that it's some kind of mini reform. In 2010, it is said in this Law that there has been a broader change, but every year thereafter there have been some changes and this has always been a mini reform. For me, it's no reform, no mini reform. Now, a particular question for you, we know how judges are elected in DSV, but there we have a situation with rank lists and a man if you have first, second, third place instead the candidate is elected 71, 121, etc. But why? Because there's a system of points there, so you get 20 points for the interview. Well, you see big reforms in that it's no longer 20 points but now 15 points. So this is just an illusion of reform to do something. Do you think this is going to lead to a qualitative improvement in the choice of the right candidates, or is this just an illusion like I think it is? There's still discretionism. Furthermore, do you think the courts will become more efficient if we know that they judge cases from 50 kuna to 20, 30, 100 million kuna with the same process approach? That's in my opinion, I don't want to hear your opinion. The judiciary is the judiciary's cancer of the early Croatian society, especially the Executive Law. Gentlemen, none of you have said anything about this executive law. You're manipulating, you're saying first you're saying now that you're ruling that in a year you're going to do now as you see a crowd being created, now you're saying this week is going to be over. All of you who have participated so far are responsible, you have extradited your citizens to the lenders and the interesters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74010	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74011	So I think that one of the words that should be banned in Croatia is reform, another is probably a strategy and then an action plan because so many times the policy has served it to citizens that citizens are no longer experiencing it or experiencing politics itself, there we have complete inflation. In our time we never called it that or thought it was so, it was some kind of change and adjustment of the best you could at that time. In this case, I expect the ministry, as announced by the minister, to go with another set of laws that will concern procedures both in criminal and in civil matters, and to work on it, I know that they also work in the executives, and then they will probably complete this picture. So I can't tell you about it right now, I'm just talking about what's here. What's here is bringing about this major change that could result in the merger of the criminal courts. So much she's one little reformer let's say so and that's a potentially good thing. I said in the debate that I think maybe we should do it differently to give a good result, but sooner or later we need to decide what to do with the misdemeanor courts. With what we did paying half, etc. They don't have any business anymore. You need to hire these people now. How to do this and if they are hired in the right way, they will certainly raise the quality of the service of the citizens and that is good. As far as the DSV election is concerned, and that's also what I said, this seems half-assed to me. So we can go to that point someone brings will know more, but then you have to have a guarantee that these points are good. I can guarantee you now that a lot of high-quality judges can't score points because they're in court or doing jobs that sting enough and that they... won't have any more chances. So far they may have had a chance at discretion, now they won't have any. So this combination of the ministry has taken one step in that direction, but I think it's either going to make a better score or this is going to give a bad result.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74012	Thank you. Replica number three colleagues Marko Šimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74013	Dear fellow Milenić. I didn't answer the line to challenge your right to an opinion or to tell you that you're wrong. However, esteemed pluralism in the Croatian Parliament, I believe that these discussions are both in the name of the club and of the individual really good, but I did not want to usurp the time for discussion with a local topic. As a lawyer, you are aware of the fact that county courts do not only decide on criminal cases in the first degree. You mentioned otherwise the County Court in Slavonski Brod and 11 cases in 2017. I will tell you that in addition to these 11 cases there were three other cases against minors and that, with these cases, the County Court in Slavonski Brod in 2017 had more in solving 2129 cases while in 2016 it had 2821 cases which were visible from the report on the state of justice submitted by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. As regards some comparison with other county courts in the Republic of Croatia, I must point out that, for example, the County Court in Sibenik also has 14 cases, the County Court in Velika Gorica 15 cases in the first degree in which it solves, Pula 16 cases, much larger than the County Court in Slavonski Brod has 24 cases, Dubrovnik 11 cases so that I hope that any government in any future in power will not be selectively solving this problem. I can also agree with your opinion and the view that the jurisdiction of the county courts should be considered, that in certain county courts in some part of the court some specific cases should be put in place, and perhaps this is also the solution for Slavonski Brod. As for us citizens of Slavonski Brod, I must admit that we are satisfied with such a small number of crimes and are happy to have such a small number of cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74014	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74015	Thanks, buddy. In fact, I fully agree with you and I apologize to the County Court in Slavonski Brod for taking them as an example, as we hear there are fewer. That's just telling us about what we're missing, and that's a vision and an idea where we go with county courts county trial. It's not necessary for them all to be abolished, but according to some estimate more than eight of them to work criminally, we can all agree that everyone is far too far away. You can't justify the existence of a court, so I'm talking now in criminal terms, and this is exactly what you're saying is that there are over two thousand in civil and that's another, but that's also the consequence of what we've made the complaints go all over the country, that they're not going there would be a thousand. So that's something we've done, but if you have 15 cases for the whole court that can't exist, it's too expensive. You don't want to go to a doctor who does 15 surgeries a year, so he doesn't do one 15, but the whole hospital only works 15. Let's think about it, let's think about the service of the citizens, and these people would like to work, so they're judges who want to work, they're not unemployed, they need to be set up differently to get a job. So there's no problem in moving a portion to civility, folding up the number and then achieving evener load. Because it's also not fair for someone in Zagreb to have maybe 100 items for the same salary as someone who solves them so much, it's not fair either. This applies to both the second subject and the county state's attorneys also because if there's a small number here, it's also there. But they have their own space. We just need them differently. Maybe we should put them in charge, specialize them. And that's why I'm saying, a step back in increasing the number isn't good, we have to watch where we're going to cut, it's good for the citizens, it's good for the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74016	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Zeljko Lackovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74017	Thank you, Vice President. In the meantime, I'd like to congratulate all the ladies on March 8th, Women's Day. So, fellow Milenic, you were a minister, and you can really speak in comparison with what brought this rationalisation of the courts in relation to this state today, but neither you nor the representatives of the ministry represented any concrete numbers, indicators, whether there was a acceleration, whether citizens' trust in the judiciary increased, whether things were dealt with more quickly than the same rhetoric as they used to disputed and commented on you, and so you are now doing so. So, you do one shower to all the judges when you compare them to doctors, so you know that then you have a doctor in all the cities in the Republic of Croatia, that doesn't mean they have to be doctors in 30 cities and in 5 major cities where you will be helped. It's not just the quality of solving complex objects, it's the simple things people need. A man from Podravski Sesveda needs to tear down two beech, this legislative body has prescribed that he must bring ownership data there, so he will drag 50 km into the grantina in Koprivnica, back to get there from the Croatian exporting forest. It would seem so much like your use of legal aid if we didn't walk here, for example, for our own purposes of solving a legal problem to the Zagreb court, but we would have to pull up to Graz. And for the sake of better specialization, we would ask in the second degree that your court in Strasbourg is immediately resolved because he knows our problem of justice much better than our courts know him, our second-degree courts, among other things, our Supreme Court, which through its sessions of departments should even the practice so that we can all be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74018	Time, reply to the replica, fellow Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74019	My colleague Lackovic, it doesn't happen very often to me, but I have to say I didn't quite understand what you were talking about, and I don't know how you got to the court in Strasbourg and what that has to do with the garter, but I guess you do. So, yeah, garter, I've got some land on Brac, and you know how to get the excerpt out? From Zagreb by computer. I don't need to get in the car, so the ferry, etc. And I'll take it out. And that's the future of Croatia, that's how it should be, and that's how I see the future of the Croatian judiciary. And if someone thinks a citizen should walk around and visit all living offices including courts to be good and to raise this country, they won't. That's the thing that makes this country look back. All developed countries digitize, move on to it, and this is the Croatian future and future of the Croatian judiciary and not that you have yourself in front of the house to walk away or sit on your bike and come back. Croatia's network courts have been built according to the system so far when people walked on horseback as well. Do you know how many Dutch courts there are on 18 million inhabitants? 11. You think the Dutch judiciary is worse than ours or that citizens are getting a worse service? Come on, tell me where they're getting a worse favor. Well, you can't talk like that. As far as the numbers are concerned, when we were working, all the numbers existed and everyone was presented. I was in your neighborhood, everyone was invited, and they all had right up to the last number. It was listed on the Ministry page and everywhere else. And here, my colleagues said they'd give all the numbers between the two readings, and I expect it on committees and here, that we'd know everything, but let's not throw ourselves away, no one said to go straight to Strasbourg. But I repeat, if you go to treatment, you go to the one who's done more of the same things and you'll get a better favor, so do the judges. Well, you're a lawyer, so you know, and judges are easier when they do more of the same things because they're in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74020	Thank you, time. Next replica, colleague Sagar Tomislav, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74021	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milenić, I am pleased to mention this healthcare system parallel. Namely, our late politician suffered from a severe illness, and it took a long time for the diagnosis to be established. A few months later, a doctor in Vienna looked at the picture and said it was cancer. Why was that? Because he's met with such a disease often. Doctors who had previously examined may have had one such case in a few years. It's very important you know, that you have a quality expert that he has a certain practice, that he has a lot of encounters with it and with courts. Here are the people from the ministry, the minister with the associates, you were the minister, there are professional people who here today will make an analysis, they will very clearly set up the system, but then what happens? Many colleagues here and here in the assembly of different political options resort to populism, they will not admit it, but resort. Well, I went to you because then my political rivals called me to work against, to abolish the court, we prayed for the City Court to remain in Virovitica. You say there are 15 county courts. Why are there 15 county courts? Because we're slaves to a structure that can't change. The European Commission gives us pucks, that's a fact. We have 20 counties, 565 municipalities and then we should have so many municipal courts. So we can't get out of these frames, the waist says one thing, and then it happens, and we see it now, and I don't understand why 10 municipal courts are coming back now, so I think it's 10th, so someone went to the minister, someone prayed, someone probably convinced people that they'd have problems with what you're saying, we live in a digital age, why would that be a problem. Why would he be a problem with a misdemeanor judge? I went to the judge for violations in Bjelovar, and that could all be solved by computers. You can see it there, if there's a picture, if that's where the van can get in, it can't get in, I don't know what to do. So, we're going to do reforms when we listen to the waist, and when politicians get a little serious and don't use pulsism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74022	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74023	You know, when it comes to the judiciary, sometimes it's hard to define the profession. Because you'll always have different professions. One will tell you lawyers, one state's attorneys, one judge, etc. However, there is what is important to the service given to citizens. So, everyone lives off the taxes they collect, gets paid, and they're here to give a favor to the citizens. They're not here for themselves. And we need to be aware of that. It's not good, and what I said, we as a country too often turn to expansion, we don't know what we're going to do, let's start something else, let's move. Here we had a very good series that started, I think, in the 2008 squirming, rounding, specializing. And people, it gives results. In 2008, you had a million and a half unsolved items, now there are fewer than 500 thousand. In our term of office, from 830,000 fell to 500. Only in those four years. So that's something that results, and that's why I'm not gonna take a step back because I'm afraid of exactly what you said. That maybe the next government that will then need someone and for political reasons will return some court, so instead of going rounding, specializing, walking the file, we'll go backwards. That's why I've never been into it when one process came to go backwards. And that's not good, as far as I'm concerned, because of the municipal courts. Because we can talk here, I'm sure they'll be unhappy again, we heard yesterday. We didn't win, we should have. And they'll all be right. But when you set one criteria, if you step away from it, it's all there. I know there's a 10 or 12 criterion here. But they, you know. Because 10 or 12 is a number that depends on the number of objects. You can put more judges on so it'll be more or less. He's too subjective, not objective.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74024	Thank you. We're moving on. My colleague Jelkovac Maria, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74025	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you and I, as men of the same profession many times and agree on some things, but with regard to permanent services and your thinking about permanent services as, in fact, something that we really shouldn't, but should be replaced by judicial days, we disagree. Why? I see it a little bit wider. So we're talking about the even development of the Republic of Croatia all the time. We're talking about people running away from smaller environments. We're worried about demographic restoration. Well, we can't concentrate everything just in big seats in Croatia, in big cities. Just regular service is the way to keep people in smaller environments. To allow them to have a court service in their midst, not to have to travel to court headquarters. So, I personally believe that this does not contribute to higher costs, in this way people will be satisfied because in their midst they have the opportunity to solve everything in the permanent service, not to have to travel and to have the costs of travel to the court's headquarters and exactly what was proposed to carry out all those actions in order to carry out the whole procedure from the court's jurisdiction, that this is good, and I still suggest that the possibility be considered precisely that people who live there give a clear message that we consider a part of the system that will not disappear tomorrow. I suggest you see if there's a possibility of counting all the permanent services and saying that they're part of the system and that there's a possibility of opening new services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74026	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74027	So I've been dealing with this, with this problem a lot, reading. I didn't find any correlation between demographics and the number of courts. So, no country, I guess then we're the first country to say that it's going to improve demographics by increasing the number of courts. No one's ever done that to you before. Maybe Serbia is when, I said, they're the only ones who've increased the number. So I understand what you're talking about, but it can be done differently. It doesn't have to be a big court in a big city. Here, that's where we can make a deal right now. Let him go someplace smaller. But he has to be one and big, because then he can specialize. So, yeah. Not everything in this country has to be in a few cities. We can move it and a lot of people are doing it, but nobody says to be everywhere because then you don't get quality. What is the difference between a permanent service and a fateful day? That's exactly what I'm You have a judge who works amongst his 20s, 30s, 50 colleagues. He talks to them, exchanges views, has an EU department that is there, has full support. He goes one or two days where the citizens need him. He doesn't travel a citizen to him. He's going back and he's doing things in a good way. That's what countries with successful justice do, that's what they're talking about. And the permanent service, it's actually a mini court. Then let's get them all back. But that's not right. I don't think it's a good solution, you think it is, but it won't in practice, you'll see. To me as a citizen, which I care about, it's important to me that Monday is my judge, I know that 10 hours every Monday of the month is my case, if I have it, solved. And where that judge is gonna sit and what's his name, so I don't care. Why do you have a full - time ministry for that? You have to pay the space, you have to, you isolate the people. In the long run, you're tearing apart a network and you're actually making it impossible to raise quality. That's why I'd go the other way, but I'm saying the Ministry chose this time, legitimately.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74028	Thank you. Replica No. Seven. Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74029	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Minister Milenic, I have followed your debate with caution for being a lawyer, for being a lawyer, for being a minister of justice, and it is certain that the constructive proposals that come from you, and I have understood them so, should be respected, discussed. You did mention certain, certain things that are not good and while you were in office and those that might improve and you were actually talking about the position of judges in the first degree, or about their low wages. You also mentioned the County Court in Slavonski Brod, which has six judges and 11 cases, I asked my colleague Maximchuk to check it out and she said yes. But in the first and second degree, they're working over 1,000 objects, but on that one. And I'm going to trouble you about what you said about your exposure, so change needs to happen because society isn't static, circumstances always change. When you mentioned a permanent service on the island of Vis, in the town of Vis, okay, we can agree that they don't have enough items and that they can be... However, we were 52, we have 52 permanent services, 66 criminal courts, 4 county and 4 commercials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this merger of criminal courts and municipal courts, for example in the area of my Imotski and Makarska, we discussed this with Makarska and Imotska, where we had 2 permanent services, i.e. 7 or 6 judges and 5.5 thousand unsolved litigation, outside of litigation and abandonment cases. I don't believe that fateful days would have achieved anything more. I agree with you that this reform is not because of HDZ, SDP, political parties, but because of the service of citizens, and it stands in this law of the proposal and the effectiveness of the judiciary, raising the accessibility of courts to citizenship, which is very important. So it may be that in some environments permanent services should be abolished, but this should be discussed but it is decident to talk about abolishing the permanent service is not good, for these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74030	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74031	I agree with you. So when I was telling it to permanent services and fate days I didn't say absolutely all the permanent services, they had a reason somewhere and they should exist. And I'm not about to pretend to be permanent, to be certain, that's one thing, exist while they need to, but I said that I'm not good at it, in law it's not good that you don't use that idea of fateful days, it could be a solution in many places. So let's think about where we don't need a permanent service what we need. Why do we need a building where there's maybe a counselor? You have permanent services where you don't have a judge and you have an advisor, which you need it for. Let's put a fateful day there. These items that, these things you said, of course, are a problem. But here's the problem, we had two courts there, the worst situation, the Macarski was always, the Imotski was better. So you had one, so you leaned. Well, you know when the V.D. was requested, so a man from Imotsky traveled, so it's just a problem that you're not just going to solve with an organisational form. And so I'm taking a step back, of course somewhere to survive the foreign service. But wherever you can go, let's take a step back with fateful days. I don't think an Imotski or Makarska would get rid of the fateful day, of course not, you have to have it there. But in other places, I said islands, you have other islands, you just don't need them. That's the same flexibility. Whether you're in summer or not, let's say it takes a lot of misdemeanor courts in Dalmatia. In the winter, there's no work, it's a flexibility that could be solved by fateful days. You know, because you're gonna have to keep paying for someone in winter when there's no class, but maybe you should do them once a month, but it shouldn't take eight hours every day. So that's one flexibility I see as the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74032	Thank you. Comrade Vlaović Davor, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74033	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Milenić, I agree with you that all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are asking us to have a quality judiciary, to deal with cases quickly and of course to be economical and not to cost us taxpayers more than should be. However, it cannot and must not be seen through this part of the effect and money alone. And I agree in that part where you said you'd have the right, the quality of the judiciary, they should have the equipment, they should have a certain number of judges, but they should also have the wages because surely, and the possibility of progress and wages affecting them to have a better level of justice. But I'm replicating you in the part where you said you should consider abolishing permanent services because, for example, here's a local example where I think there's been an injustice that's the town of Nova Gradiška. The municipal court has been suspended and you say numbers and just numbers. And the figures are just saying if we're going to cancel the city of Nova Gradiška even bigger than Gospić and Crikvenica and Pazin, then it's not, according to that rule the municipal court should be abolished, especially because there is another 10 municipalities, meaning over 60 thousand inhabitants. The number of judges is also not a problem, and especially now through this merger of the misdemeanors with the municipal court, although I agree in your part of the debate that perhaps another way should have been considered. And all municipalities, all citizens demand that the Municipal Court in Gradišca remain, if the municipal court can't, then the permanent service certainly. And all municipalities made decisions on municipal councils both HDZ and SDP and HSS to return the Municipal Court to Novi Gradišca. And if he came back to Vinkovce for saying hello, I think it would be a place to go back to Nova Gradiška just because of those numbers you were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74034	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74035	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74036	A colleague of Milenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74037	Oh, I'm sorry. So it's not a classic replica, I'll give you an answer. If it makes sense to return these 10 courts, e.g. Crikvenica, Djakovo or anything. I agree with you, the same logic could be found for Nova Gradiška and should have been found. And that's why I said it's always dangerous when you go backwards, so of course Nova Gradiška by the number of inhabitants, in the area it deserves to be the 11th and bring the court back. But then we'll be back very soon to 60, 70. And we can go that way. Now, there's a minister there you have to ask him to explain to you why he's giving Crikvenica and not giving it to Novi Gradiška and how he's going to defend it in the long run and whether he can defend it. I don't think he will, that's what I told him, but I didn't want to end up in the New City Permanent Service, like I'm not down there, what I said to my colleague Babic, he said, in the long run, that they shouldn't be predicted to be all permanent, because you have them where they can be replaced by fate days. And wherever fateful days can be established, they need to be established, and where they are not, they need to be extended, because it is the cheapest, and the best way to ensure people access to justice. Let's, where you need a permanent presence, you'll have, but where you don't need to, send a judge to a citizen, not a citizen to a judge. It's just a small country and we can do it. And this for Nova Gradiška, I agree, let's get New Gradiška back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74038	Thank you and last replica, colleague Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milenić, I agree with you on a lot of things, although we are on different sides, especially regarding how judges are evaluated. I agree that's one big problem. You today, realistically, although we have these standards that are so or so objectively, you can again say through the annual ranges and jobs very much direct and influence what points the judge will have at the end. And that's exactly what needs to be the next step, after changing the law that these measurements are objective as much as A and B are individualized. Because the fact is that different types of objects, different weights, you can't put in the same basket and collect pears and apples. Some cases have more complaints, some have fewer complaints, some require much more time, some less and it's very important to make that distinction. And I think that these laws are just going in that direction and that this is a good step forward, but of course, the next step has to be framework criteria. The second thing you mentioned, as far as I understand from the debate on the board, is that you consider the reduction of discretion in DSV to be counter-constitutional. And you mentioned the Constitutional Court's decision in the case of Coric, I personally disagree with you. So that decision was made in the context of the law at the time, and such a provision is now in force by the DSV of that discretion. Right now we're going to limit it. But what is important is that this freedom of choice is not completely gone. You still have an interview, say. What we can talk about is whether this interview, the way there's a best solution right now. Let's just say I'm glad that's where you cut the number of points the interview brings. That's why, because we've had cases in the past, some judges according to other criteria are better rated, and then they get very few points in the interview, and some others jump to the interview. And these are the things to be careful about, but I certainly think that objectification measured a step in the right direction, that it was not anti-constitutional and that it should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74040	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74041	Whether it's constitutional or not, the Constitutional Court decides, neither you nor I. And there's no point in having a discussion about it at all. I think it's at least on the border and whoever's arguing, they'll have very strong arguments to dispute. Whether it works or not, I can't say it like you can't. But exactly what you said confirms in part what I'm talking about, as well as what I'm about to confirm yours. So if you introduce mechanically, practically, that number of points means choice, because that's what the law says, points plus points on the interview that person went through. That's right, there's a ranking list going on and on that DSV ranking, it doesn't decide anything. That's what the law says. The DSV only gives 15 points. Am I always satisfied with the choice? Very often I'm not. And we can talk, but that applies to this DSV and the one before him and the one before and the one before, etc. And that's what we're always talking about, there's no significant movement in that direction. However, according to the current structure that remains, therefore, the law will come into force and you will have people who will score points towards the bad system. That list will be created according to the bad system. And you'll have it mechanically, which you say isn't constitutional, that it's constitutional, and I say it's not, voting these people. And a lot of good judges doing big cases because of too few points, they won't be in the competition at all. And he won't be able to make up for it. So if the law is already going in this direction, that's what I said on the board, give it parallel, let the ministry take it, the DSV in that power makes the criteria so that we know what those points bring us, then that's the package. And then I can talk about him and then I can agree with him. And like this, you know, it's going to come to you, by the bad points, the bad criteria for the score, you're going to choose, that's not good. So either until the end or nothing, that's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74042	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague is Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, allow me a little degression. I congratulate everyone in Croatia and in this House on March 8, Women's Day, because I think it is a small reminder of the harmfulness of discrimination of every kind, the harmfulness of discrimination against women, but the harmfulness of discrimination against anyone in any healthy society, and that is why we need to remember it. And now about the topics that have a lot to do with it. A lot to do with the question and discrimination and the fight against discrimination, at all. Of course, as we know, justice and justice are not the same things, but it should contribute to a more just society. Mr. Minister with Associates, we've united three laws here, as far as the GLAS Club and HSU are concerned, we have somewhat different views on these three laws. The law relating to changes in the State Judiciary Council and I think it is crucial in this case because it de facto speaks of choice, criteria, the way judges are chosen, which is the basis for the functioning of the entire system. We have objections, but I think it's a shift in the right direction, while it seems to me that the Law on Courts and then, consequently, the courts' seats have more problems and would require greater intervention. The DSV is certainly a key institution in the functioning of the judiciary and in 2010 when this change has been launched where the link between politics and justice has been broken, where the judges do not choose the Parliament but in some ways themselves by a secret vote that chooses the DSV and we have come to this first step in the context of what the negotiations were for EU membership and I agree that there are different practices and sometimes they may have experimented on us by making different demands. But as far as the Croatian judiciary is concerned, it was actually in a catastrophic state, today it may be in a slightly less catastrophic state, but surely it is not satisfactory or we must not be satisfied with what we have in this respect today and we must move on to promote it. We were in, say, what do I know in 2011, in 2012, thinking about a million and 600 thousand unsolved items. Today, at the end of 2016, there were 508,931, that is a significant shift, but it is still over 500 thousand too many, so too many unsolved items. The problems of still sanctioning, rewarding, promoting and electing judges who still exist and the model that is in force between 2010 and 2016 have been resolved by only 6 judges, so only 6 judges have been assessed in these 6 years so negatively that they are resolved. This is simply not realistic, it is not possible that in 6 years only 6 judges were sanctioned in this way or deserved that kind of sanctions and it is something to say about the model used in assessing the work of judges and which should certainly be improved. It is also unclear and insufficient to lay down provisions on the strict responsibility of judges, and it is necessary to lay down clear unequivocal and uniformly defined procedures or actions and to propose appropriate sanctions. Another problem is the election and progress of judges, so the criteria. There has already been a lot of talk and debate between colleagues Milenic and colleagues who have replicated him. At this point the interview brings 30 points, the interview according to logic of things is arbitrant. We are the debate, Minister Bosnjakovic will remember, conduct and when the first of these changes were introduced and when we were thinking about how to define how these changes were adapted to some of the standards that were sought in the negotiations for chapter 23 of the famous and we discussed the level of arbitration that has been introduced into the evaluation of judges' work. And it was later and in practice that very often interviews with such a large number of points completely reversed the order or those results that were achieved in the written exams, the tests of those elements that are part of that score and the evaluation. I agree that it is important for this to very precisely define what the dagger is, which elements are pricked. But I can't agree that there are first-class judges who don't know how to take a test, I can't imagine who can't get people who are doing their job well, who on the test and on those points that are based on some objective indicators fail. So maybe a smarter, more rational definition of those segments of work is needed, and I'm going to have one suggestion that's being pricked, so let's say a clearer picture of objective indicators, and then by the basis of these points, I'm going to propose a choice of judges, or the advancement of judges. We think what is proposed in these changes instead of 30, 15 points is a step in the right direction. As far as I'm concerned, I'd cut those five points to five coming from the interview, but I'd redefine the elements that are being raised in the evaluation based on which new judges are then chosen, or on the basis of which the judges are progressing, precisely so as to do away with that arbitration or to reduce arbitration. What DSV takes into account the Constitutional Court's decision, whether it now reduces the DSV's right to decide, what DSV and what DSV's decision absolutely can and should be involved is the definition of criteria. But it's easier for DSV, too, if there are more operationally defined criteria on the basis of which he can decide and then, of course, respect the list of championships that they were talking about here, I think it's absolutely justified. This seems to be another step that I consider positive, which is to change some of the structures or DSV members of the county courts are increasing, so it is going towards a structure that may be more emphasising both regional representation and judges with more experience. The possibility of consecutive mandates of DSV members is also being obtained. That's a positive but I'd say it's a cut-up tail on a gnome. Therefore, what should be introduced precisely in order for the DSV to be able to carry out its work completely independently should not worry about whether these judges will then vote again for that person to be a member or a member of the DSV, so in some way treat judges who have to evaluate, choose and sanction as their electoral body would be to introduce one mandate, maybe extend it to 5 years or not, I leave it for debate, but introduce one mandate that gives DSV members then much greater autonomy to think simply in accordance with their own assessment and attitude, and not considering that they decide on people whose next mandate, whose votes will be required for their next term of office. So, I think that would be worth thinking about. One element that is not used at this time in the assessment of judges, the number of cases solved or the number of judgments suspended, is introduced, too, if you remember when these changes started. But I don't think that's enough. A major problem in practice has been abolished judgments because, for example, of a lack of well-determined factual status or simply of a wrongly established factual state. It also may even show even more the quality of the judge's work. Therefore, the fact that a verdict has been abolished because it is simply a misdetermined factual situation or an incompletely established factual state certainly speaks a lot about the quality of the work of the judge and that is one element that would be useful to introduce as an indicator in the assessment of the work of judges with which they are then dealt with when they decide to advance to several courts. Otherwise, this idea that my colleague Milenić brought here, I think it's absolutely for support, I don't know if you can build it, I haven't thought about it, but when I heard it seemed very good to me, and that's the possibility of promoting judges without moving to a higher court because since the county courts have a final number of places since it's absolutely logical to reduce that number of county courts over time, people will come into some kind of blind street career and therefore finding some way that judges can advance and at the same time, quality judges with clearly defined criteria that we're talking about here, and at the same time not moving to a higher court is certainly useful. I see my time is here, but I would like to mention at least one thing about the Law of Courts and these seats. So it seems to me that these 10 additional courts are not a conceptual decision but a political one. It's just that people are squeezed from all sides because they think that the judge, the priest and the doctor make up the village. And you can see it here from this, but we're too important to have that system so that you can react that way that we won't support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74044	Thank you. Before the replica, we'd like to welcome the II students. The high school from Varazdin and their professors who are with us at the gallery, welcome. We can continue, colleague Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74045	So, fellow Pusic, I think you too often think that some numbered uniforming and such criteria that are then inserted into the computer are going to give us the best solutions. In the EU's judiciarys or at all in the world, which are rated much better than ours and where citizens are much more satisfied with their judiciary, there is generally no evaluations. And the criteria are discretionary much higher than ours. And no one says it's not a good thing because they're a good judiciary. The characteristics of these less developed are that they go to standardize as many things as possible, try to fit them into something, and the results give me. So, of course, we're where we are. We need to think in these houses. But the right solution, without changing the Constitution and without redefining certain things from the Constitution, will not be achieved. And there's no reform there. There are only certain changes left. Without a change in the Constitution there is no such thing as justice. What I mentioned and you agreed with the ranks. Well, that's one way of discharging the DSV and actually removing that discretionary thing. 'Cause where's the maximum pressure? In progress to the high court. If people were to advance by some more objective criteria within the ranks, it would be much less of an interest and pressure to advance the high court, much less, because they would solve the matter financially. Not everyone wants to go to a bigger place, someone wants to work where it is, and you might actually then also be able to apply another type of assessment and criteria for it. And some of those you mentioned that are very high-quality, now I'm not going to analyze them. So that's this one package that I said would be good here if you could work it out, even in some time frames, but that we know it's going to be fun. Then you have a package.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74046	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, fellow Vesna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74047	Thank you very much. So, what you would say is a key word in what you said, in countries where the judiciary is much more quality and well-functioning. And that's true. Of course, when you have very high quality and everything works out well, and when it's quite clear how the procedure goes without forcing anyone to do so, then you probably don't need any rules because people behave according to some ethics of the profession, it's respectable, stick to it. We just need to get to it. We're not in that situation. Our situation is such that we have almost nowhere so strong, let's say, the ethics of the profession, and not to say, such a long tradition of institutional that is crucial, in my opinion, for all of these institutions. So we just need to get to the fact that people in these professions are acting objectively, in accordance with the law, etc. While we do not have, in my opinion, taught some other areas, it is much better to rely on predetermined, clear, recognizable indicators than in the arbitration-discretional right of DSV members or anything else. That's why, let's say, I believe that in the exams, although I liked oral exams much more than writing exams, but that the writing part of the exam is very important because it shows without further dilemma certain knowledge or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74048	Thank you. Next replica, counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74049	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Now you've mentioned that we don't have a tradition of effective justice. Why is that? We're dealing with the consequences again, not the causes. We deal with it all the time here in this House. Now, we all know that politics is about human policy. That's what I think, Stalin or Comrade Lenin said. Lenin said, okay. Yeah, and he was right there, of course. Here, now we've heard that the judges want to cancel the security checks. Why are they doing this? Here. First of all, I have handed over the framework of one to enlighten the Committee on Justice, the Office of the President, to see where this Enlightenment should begin. You need to start in the judiciary, of course. Is that why maybe some judges have fake diplomas, I don't want to talk about names now. Because some may have bought diplomas for 5,000 marks, and they work as judges because they are afraid they were co-workers and that their file is in Belgrade. That means they're a threat to national security. Here. So, maybe some of the highest authorities in the judiciary, the judicial authorities, we might have former UDBA associates. How can they do this? I don't understand that. You have a Venice Commission dealing with the democratisation of the judiciary, and... as an associate of that commission, one person from the former system who was part of that repressive system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know her name. How is that possible? What about the efficiency of the judiciary in Croatia? Where's the analysis? This is for Mr. Bošnjakovic and his associates, as assessed, which is why the European Commission has that CEPES committee, in fact, which is in the EU, which assesses the efficiency of the judiciary. Finland has seven professional judges for 100,000 people and has no outstanding case. Where are we? Who's doing it, who's estimating, who's... procedure? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see that progress, and until that mental circuit changes, we're not going to keep this picture going.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74050	Thank you, thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74051	Thank you. Comrade Glasnović, why don't we have a tradition? Well, we don't have one, and because in the last 150 years, we haven't moved anywhere in six countries. It takes so short any, no matter what we think of these arrangements, but it's so short the institutional arrangements here, that there's simply nothing to be offended as part of our political culture. But here this change is trying, as far as I can see, to go in that direction, so I'm using this opportunity to say, let's say something else, which is to introduce property cards for judges, which I think is good. However, property cards are introduced that say that what is protected by the confidentiality law, and as far as I was able to see, will not be published, is a name. So, the data will be published but without a name. That's the opposite of the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, and I don't see why that data is actually hidden now that it's taken a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74052	Thank you. Next up is colleague Pernar Ivan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74053	Dear Mrs. Pusic, you've been talking about what should be done in the judiciary, I've been listening to your speech. But everything you say should have been done, you could have done, you were in power. This justice system we now live in is the legal follower of the justice system that you led. Or you were part of the government that ran it. And I often listen to the outwittings of the left and right about what they would do. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you had a chance to do it all. I don't understand why you're so sick of this subsequent mind syndrome, it's almost an entire assembly. Next time you're in charge of that idea, you spend it and now you're spilling your wits and wise sayings, there's no one to benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74054	Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74055	Comrade Pernar, this is one of the situations where this very often used flossula of yours doesn't work because it's not true, namely. Because everything that has now been obtained, of course I have not worked, has been done by my colleague Milenić, have been done by people who have worked in the area, all that has now received good grades from both the European Commission and what the current minister is building on has been done in that mandate, so the past term and in the mandate before that. It's not often for us to say that there's some continuity, but here there is. And that's why we can have a relatively high-quality debate and not just throw ourselves away like this because, in fact, one big important step in the last term, the first step in the past, and now it's trying to do the next. And that's why we can talk about how to fix the situation and not just about the flossules.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74056	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74057	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Pusic, I thought I'd rephrase some other things to you, but you said something about property cards, so let me just fix you up. The first property cards of judges already exist, so they already exist only now are not published in the way it is published for state officials. Another thing about personal data means the same rule you already have for state officials, but that doesn't mean you won't publish a name. This means that the home address, the name of the spouse, etc. is not published. So these are all these rules that already exist to government officials, same rules, so there's no difference. The second thing you mentioned was points and wrongly incorrectly established factual condition. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Court law, it's already in there. So there to have the criterion of the number of decisions abolished due to a significant infringement of the procedure in relation to the total number of decisions and the number of decisions abolished in relation to the total number of complaints or legal remedies. So, you have a major violation of the procedure as one criterion but and a misrepresented factual state, the wrong application of the material law is to you... still involved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have this as a criterion just isn't particularly prominent as a major injury procedure but it's inside. Third, as far as the EU is concerned, it is necessary to clearly distinguish between political commitments, recommendations, guidelines and legal obligations. If you are looking legally, the EU does not have the authority to unify the judicial systems of the Member States, Milenic said well yesterday but what exists are, say, two restrictions. First, your legal system cannot be such that it fully deviates from some fundamental principles of the EU. So some constitutional principles, protection of human rights, etc. The second criterion established by the EU court is that your judicial system and procedural law must not be such that in cases that protect the rights that guarantee... Such cases are not effective enough and that rights guaranteeing European law are protected less than those guaranteeing domestic legislation which is not related to European law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the restrictions that exist and these are the reforms that were implemented on the basis of this in 2009 when a two-stage administrative trial was introduced, etc. So these are these restrictions, there's no kind of uniform system that we all have to adapt to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74058	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74059	Thank you very much. So, as far as property cards are concerned, there is a difference here, this introduces, of course, that they are available and insight into what has been so far, however, when it comes to officials, there are no restrictions on the application of the Privacy Act and here there are. And what is going to be a restriction is not defined because there is also the possibility of not publishing the name of the person concerned. So, I'm just saying this as the ultimate possibility that even if this clause is introduced that does not apply to government officials that no information is published that is protected by the Data Securitisation Act. Excuse me, what was the second part? Yeah, related to the evaluation of the work of judges based on misdetermined or incompletely established facts, this is not explicitly stated. What's the suggestion is that this is explicitly if we're up to it, and I am, that as much as possible objective criteria, so to be more operational and applicable criteria, to reduce the arbitration of decision-making, then that criterion should be explicitly defined in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74060	Thank you. And before continuing on behalf of the clubs, the intervention of Justice Minister Drazen Bošnjakovic, please on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74061	Vice President, allow me to congratulate all women on International Women's Day with pleasure. And I want to look back at certain parts of the debate that has been here so far, and I can say that much of the debate really gives us very strong arguments that we can process some other things before the second reading. One of the questions where we all think we're complicated is that we're not satisfied with the functioning of the judiciary and I really haven't discovered anything new when I say it. And what was marked by our judiciary 10 and 20 years ago is a large number of pending cases and the long-term process. Unfortunately, these two things are still present today. But let's be correct, so if we turn 10 years back then we'll see that the procedures are faster, then we'll see that the number of unsolved objects is still significantly smaller than it is today. And that's where we come up with this important question that we're based on this one by saying a package of laws and that's changing the network of courts. And it's actually one of the main measures that we're going through today, and I don't want to diminish the importance of all these other measures. But no doubt that today in the system we have one part of the courts and one part of the judges who are not burdened enough for us, who do not have enough cases and we simply have to react to it. We're responding to the merger of these misdemeanor and municipal courts. And here the issue was now open I fully respect the different attitudes, counterpart Milenic said he thought it should go in two steps. He is expressing concern about the opening of these new 10 courts, I respect that opinion. You're actually the author of those strong new network organizations when we got to 24 courts, which we also supported as a good measure. And trust me this whole time while we're thinking about starting these new courts, with my associates, I keep thinking and saying we don't want that wheel back. We don't want to go back to a system where we have small courts, where we don't have the ability to specialize because we used to have this and in the negotiation process we said no and we produced bigger courts and then even bigger ones. We think this, the establishment of these 10 new courts, is the measure where we won't narrow down that space, where we won't get those micro vessels we once had, but for that area that is appropriate, we'll get a decent court within which specialization will be possible. There won't be any courts out of those ten courts full of jurisdiction either. Some will be courts, therefore, of limited jurisdiction. That's why we want to keep quality. Here, we are completely different from your colleague Milenić for permanent services outside the headquarters. You asked the question of the functioning of the days of judgment, of the permanent services outside the headquarters. Well, actually, in nature, there won't be any big and beating differences. Just because someone's gonna be a judge in a permanent service outside the courthouse doesn't mean he's gonna be sitting there all day in the month. If there are not enough items he will go to other places and other permanent services where he will actually need to work. We have these material conditions, in some locations we have buildings that are in decent and good condition, we have a sufficient number of employees and there is no reason not to bring the judiciary closer to the citizens. That's what we want to achieve. You also opened the pay issue, it's extremely complicated, and we can't really solve it in a short time, and we have to actually do it in a broader way by saying it to the discussion, dialogue and to the judges. You know, it wasn't easy for you, either. Because we don't have, at this point let's be honest, we don't have mechanisms to reward those who work well and cut wages to those who actually get worse results, but we're thinking about it. We also haven't opened the question at all, but we're also thinking about counselors. We have 600 advisors in the system who carry quite a burden and are also underpaid. We want to find and find solutions in the future but this is now one step where we think and we're not satisfied with the functioning of the DSV, we know well how much we wanted objective criteria, we think we're doing a step forward but in any case we're going to think about improving this system... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74062	We do. We have five replicas for the Minister's presentation. He's the first of his colleagues, Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74063	Dear Minister Bošnjakovic, I do not understand why the register of debtors is not being introduced by the register of the decision on the matter. Namely, the debtors were forged before, and then they could just take any money you wanted with the counterfeit debt. And then that register was introduced in a way that couldn't be done anymore. So when someone comes in with the debtor, they're checking in on the register, if it's not good-bye. However, in the case of a solution to the performance, there is no register of those solutions. Why? Because the public records didn't want that register to be introduced, at least that's what the people of FINA say. So I'm asking you to make a register of the solution to the performance. So when someone comes to FINA and wants someone to take down a million kunas in their account to first check that this performance is real, that it's not a counterfeit seal, signature, name, or attributed to another notary, lawyer, etc. We have an dysfunctional legal system where such elemental fraud, so the obvious fraud from the plane is not able to stop. Not to mention much more subtle legal smudges. And I ask you to do the rule of law, for the sake of legal certainty, for the people who are victims of crime to introduce that registry as public, or executive solutions. Imagine if you had a company and someone came to you and took down a million kunas. And not only are you careful with this, FINA still collects from you the cost of the execution and the execution has been forged, so is that normal to you, Minister? Please answer that question, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74064	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74065	Thank you. Dear colleague Pernar, no counterfeit is normal, every counterfeit actually requires a criminal-legal epilogue. If you know of anything I think you need to initiate appropriate procedures before the Ministry of the Interior, the competent state attorney's office, and that's what this epilogue needs. We are therefore in the process of making a new Executive Act, this idea of yours we will analyse, consider because in principle we and the notebooks and courts and all others who carry out the tasks have in the archive all the solutions that have been acting so that on that side I do not see any problem if it is necessary if it requires practice. I believe that what you're talking about is actually more, I'm sure the exceptions are not the rules about counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74066	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Jurič Branka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74067	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would like to ask you on behalf of the people of Sibenik-Knin County in particular on behalf of our entrepreneurs, businessmen, to state in the Law on Areas and Court Headquarterss the permanent service of the Commercial Court in Sibenik. You have not instructed any permanent service, but you would be asked for our safety since it is a commercial court or a permanent service that records a number of files each year, we have in the last year nearly 2,000 solutions, 2,000 files, over 300 solutions to the establishment. In this year there are 78 foundings, over 340 items are re-recorded. We know that we are all tasked with having one positive entrepreneurial climate, approaching the outcome of the licenses of our economies, and also when we talk about the rationalisation of the judiciary, it is certain that 1700 kunas are the travel expenses of employees who are supposed to work in Zadar, so we multiply that by 8 workers who are now working in Sibenik will certainly not rationalise the entire system, so here is the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74068	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74069	Dear colleagues. In any case, in the next period we want to put emphasis and focus on the work of trade courts because we also respect all private disputes. We can argue about two inches between here and something, and that's very important to us. It is also important for society that the system works in that segment, but if we are in some economic relationship and I owe you some million kunas, then it already has some social dimension and there we will place a special emphasis on both human and materially strengthening trade courts. And as you know, special measures are under way to digitise trade courts, so we're spreading that e-list to commercial courts and we want to strengthen them. Wherever there's space, where analysis and figures show that it makes sense to have a permanent service I'm not running away from it, we'll do an analysis we'll see wherever it takes to strengthen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74070	Next up is a colleague of Milenić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74071	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bosnjakovic, with every explanation of you, we're actually getting a little closer somewhere, so this is yours now setting up permanent services and approaching fates... a whole other story than what was set up yesterday because it's now something where you're doing a more flexible network that we can support. So if it's long-term it'd just be good to say it as a long-term vision because you've seen that we're talking yesterday let's put in law that all permanent services are forever permanent, and then let's go put in courts I think there's no difference. So connecting one and another concept is something that can give us a good result. As far as pay goes, of course it's a big challenge. That's why I've suggested today that you might take the first step to indicate the direction through these ranks. I call them ranks whatever you call them, degrees or anything, so then you might at first through a symbolic increase you're giving a simple perspective on what a system that you'll then adjust to financial opportunities will look like. Why do I think that's extremely important? And here I'm saying something else that I miss, it's a matter of county courts that have to be reduced and you're going to have to point that out sooner or later. When you point out that you reduce the possibility of progress and you make people go against each other, it's not good. And I think that's why these two measures, one strategic development, don't have to be in this document but strategically, reduction of county levels, rankings that are being introduced, give people a perspective of progress, see where they're going to be seen. We're going to get to the staff drains, so you know that at the sea of Dubrovnik and Istria you can't fill so easily anymore, it's going to be wherever some economic activity with these salaries is not going to be able to fill the courtrooms and state's attorney's office and that's the problem. I think you should address it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74072	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74073	If we didn't understand each other well about the permanent services, I think we've given enough clarifications both at the end and the network of courts and permanent services, it's all some kind of dynamic category where nothing is really going to happen forever and it's all about what's going to happen in the future and what's going to be the right solution at a certain point. Today is this, tomorrow is the question of what will bring about the future. As far as wages are concerned, I fully agree with you and I have already said this extremely important but complex question. You have heard indications that certain changes are being made throughout the system of public administration regarding new methods of pay systems where we want to recognise and better reward those who carry this system, and yet have measures in relation to those who are weaker in that system. It is clear that we, as a judiciary, will have to fit into that one image. I've already wanted to produce a provision where the law is given, I don't know the presidents of the courts, to raise the salaries of some who are well 10%, and some drop by 10, but in the conversation with the judges themselves, so much trouble has been put on the table that I've moved away from it and I said let's look at it over a little longer period and let's look at it with a little bit more perspective because if we can't solve it in quality, there's no problem. As for the questions of the county courts you've opened up very well. It's not a matter of county court just a first-degree criminal procedure he's running. And the exact statistics of what you said in some courts is a major drop in these cases. They have that jurisdiction where they resolve complaints against the judgments of municipal courts and civil and criminal proceedings. And here we actually have statistics quite full. So at this point, we don't see any space to go with the reduction in numbers. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74074	Thank you. Fourth replica, colleague Felak Damir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74075	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. I'm glad that I've heard here means what Mr Milenić said and I'm talking about permanent services and court days in certain courts because let's say one radical reform reduced the number of courts in one period, I'm talking about municipal courts from 108 to 24 and in this way we've achieved certainly great rationalization but we have also done that the courts are less accessible to the citizens. And that's one of the basic things that would have to be to make the courts available to the citizens. I now wish to point out to you in these two minutes of replicas the problem of the Djurdjevac Court and I appeal to introduce a permanent service in the Djurdjevac Court because according to Djurdjevac, the city of 7 municipalities means gravitate towards that city, which is a total of about 27 thousand inhabitants and covers about 500 square kilometers. It's simply an ever-older population that has more and more problems getting to the Djurjevac himself, let alone to Koprivnica where it should go now. One more thing I would like to point out is that in the current law, who can make a proposal to establish a permanent service or days of judgment, these are the presidents of the courts, which confirms that the decision is made by the minister. I think that should allow the proposal to be made by local self-government units, and then the minister decides to make a rule about it that should be prescribed to satisfy what needs to be done in some place, to create a permanent service in a city, or to set up days of judgment. I think that would be very good, so everyone can be involved and I say the ultimate goal is to bring the trial closer to the citizens that citizens can reach the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74076	Thanks, buddy. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74077	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Felak, here we will consider extending the circle of those who can actually make proposals for the establishment of permanent services or for the introduction of days of judgment. Although these days the situation is such you know that everyone will listen to both the mayor and the mayor and the people from a certain field and can not ignore their actual demands because they feel best the need for whether there needs permanent service or not. Now, the ministry is what needs to be seen between these wishes and needs, which is objective but there's no reason not to even extend the legal provision in the spirit of what you've proposed. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74078	The last replica is a colleague of Vlaovic Davor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74079	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Ministers with Associates. Here's to you on behalf of the HSS Club and on behalf of me. Here through this package of 3 laws you wanted, at least so announced and that we have a better quality judiciary and speed up the conduct, evenly burden the courts and judges and what we think is the most important better accessibility of the courts to the citizens. And in this context, I have already replicated Milenić, and I am asking you a question, and the arguments are that 10 units of local self-government and the town of Nova Gradiška have made a decision and sent a request with a complete elaborate on the need to stay in the town of Nova Gradiška or to return to the municipal court. I know that you have received representatives of the court and the city and that a permanent service has been promised. But here, again on behalf of all citizens living in the area and the town of Nova Gradiška is now more than 14,000 inhabitants, some smaller towns have been re-manded by the municipal court, to reconsider all the arguments and demands of the citizens of Nova Gradiška and 10 municipalities to return the municipal court to Nova Gradiška. Because there's historical justification, the number of citizens, the number of judges, especially now with the merger of criminal judges with the municipal, I don't think that's questionable at all. Because now you already have a situation where from the case of labour disputes you from Nova Gradiška to Brod go both judge and administrative staff and parties in proceedings and lawyers, we just pile up costs and we're not going towards this objective of civil court accessibility. Because you have places with us that are 70, 80 km away from Slavonski Brod. I think that's how these arguments that are in that lab that you have justifiable to get the city of Nova Gradiška a municipal court, so please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74080	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74081	I've received an elaborate on Nova Gradiška, we've analyzed, we've watched, we don't have enough cases, we'd have few judges in that court, and I think it's just the opposite that it's in the citizens' interest to stay in this larger court with a permanent service outside the courthouse. Because I say, it is for the benefit of citizens to be in the framework of a permanent service and be within a larger court because then, in that larger system, they will get a better service than they would get in a smaller system in their own court. And we will do everything in fact that citizens of Nova Gradiška and the places around Nova Gradiška do not travel to Brod but actually be the largest part of the debate and all the process operations to be carried out in Nova Gradisca. This is what we really want not only with this permanent service but also with all other permanent services but also with another discussion, we will analyze it once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74082	Thank you. We're done with the replicas, we're going on behalf of the MPs' club. Next up is my colleague, Stjepan Curaj, HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74083	I would like to thank the Vice President, dear ministers with colleagues, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club will support this package, the trial law package, in its first reading. In fact, I think that the debates since yesterday and today are going towards absolute acceptance, partial acceptance, something might be better, even on the side of the opposition we hear different thoughts, I would say specifically, we are not limiting the mandate of DSV judges to two at all, someone might put them on one, so there is reason to lose maybe some continuity, so that there will be some new people coming in at all, or in general when we talk about the councils, the others again, we have heard the reasons here, we know why not one mandate, that they would not satisfy the electoral body, but we certainly believe at the beginning that it is important to say that what we are and what we are today and what these points of the agenda are at all today, because we are all aware that the situation in the judiciary is not what we all want, or what we should be. First of all, citizens feel it on their backs, they feel entrepreneurs, meaning the number of objects as always, and that the smallest always has those they don't solve because too long it takes, there is a certain legal uncertainty. And now here we have the idea that, even in replicas yesterday, there's a lot to change, and someone's saying that this isn't enough, that we need more, etc., etc. I said figuratively yesterday, symbolically, if we're at one level of 0, and we need to get to 10, so with this we come to 3-4, so we can't throw that away. If this is one of those steps, we accept it, we improve our participation in the debate, and then we move on. If there is a need to amend the laws of procedure, if there is a need to enter the law in substance, then let's do it. But to say, no, this is not going to solve anything, so it's no good, I mean, it's an empty story. So, first of all, the HNS club says... will support, this package of laws that are on the agenda today, because a lot of things that may not seem that big, but certainly that can mean what we all want in practice, which is certainly to speed up the handling of courts, ensure a level of burden and, of course, a better accessibility that we have already heard through the permanent services and through this increase in municipal, or the number of judges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, all of this must lead to an improvement in efficiency. We here have organisational, as far as infrastructure is concerned, where the courts are, where they come, we have how judges are chosen, or how judges are treated as regards their results, as far as their advances are concerned, as far as the progress of the judicial advisors are concerned. So, to the motivation of those who work on this subject, so this new law proposes introducing a new, let's say, labour regulations. So we have three types of court advisors, three ranks. Of course, this allows for a certain better motivation, of course, that transparency may be what is most important and in line with it, therefore, how the transparency that we are talking about about property cards of judges, of course, which are, let's say, and correspond to all the rules of property cards of officials, therefore, if we are talking about protecting the right to privacy or to protecting information. We are talking here and about certain points in the choice of judges where we can now agree that something is good, something is not, but certainly it is good to reduce the impact of discretionary interviews themselves that certain statistical indicators are given more importance to them, so that just as the motivation of judges is greater, and not to go with those who are better known, who has better contacts, perhaps so they would better ensure progress rather than perhaps work themselves. Of course, there's always a double, that statistics are always misleading discipline and that something that can be good for paper doesn't mean it's good in reality. But that's why there's this discretionary decision to take all the elements into account. So, as far as the judge's appointments are concerned, the deadlines for conducting the proceedings are shortened. So when we talk about the very network of courts, what's important here is to introduce a criteria for effective management. So we have courts of minimum must be 10 to 100 judges because as they say here, what has been shown in practice, that all courts that have over 100 judges become overly bulky and that it is very difficult to manage them. Of course, when we talk about governance, there would be one proposal concerning the amendment of the Registrar to the court’s current directorship, or a brief proposal. Namely, if I remember correctly, it's an art. 35, i.e. The 21st draft is about who can be the director of these judicial administrations, so it provides professionally for economists and lawyers, and as far as their jobs are concerned, they organise and respond to the work of court officials and tenants, so they follow and plan education, take care of the maintenance of the court building, working rooms, equipment for work, investment investments, organize and coordinate the development of an annual procurement plan, although everything is now more or less centralised as far as larger procurement procedures are concerned, so those over 200 thousand kuna have central purchases. Therefore, supervision of financial and material operations, etc. What it is, for example, is that when we talk about information counselors in courts, they don't have to be strictly informers, they can be economists. But for the director of the courts, they can only be economists and lawyers, and we have, I believe, I'm not saying it's a rule, but we have certain quality IT consultants who could do the job, because most of these things are working and participating in it now. So, here if it could be opened, I'm just not saying it might happen, but just so they're not discriminated against as some who are already constantly employed. Why? So maybe because, in some ways, there would be cost cuts if, within the existing capacity of a particular court, we could find solutions for those jobs as well. So that would be one suggestion to consider. Furthermore, as regards the appointments, which I have mentioned for several courts and general progress, and how for DSV, as for others, I think it is a good thing to see that certain framework measures are actually taken towards those who do not have 80% of these framework criteria or 20% of the judgments abolished and more due to significant infringements of the procedure. I think, in fact, we all need this one dose of transparency to see it clearly. And maybe it wouldn't hurt to get one reason we're talking about here when we talk about the reasons why and how we've combined and why we've come to the number of 10 new municipal courts that we've brought together with the misdemeanor, to see exactly those statistical indicators that come in favor of the number of cases, of the number of judges and all of the population itself that covers that court as regards municipalities and cities, that it's also a little bit included through some tables or benchmarks. And there I can welcome certainly especially down to me in Slavonia and Baranja for the Municipal Court in Djakov, which covers now, or will cover it with this merger. Why do I mean by connecting? So we here are extremely important and it's important to say. This merger does not normally result in a new cost. We have already existing people who are already in the system, who are already receiving their salary, who are clearly not well used capacity especially when we talk about the Criminal Courts, and the President of the Court will deploy them to certain other departments. And of course the misdemeanor courts themselves will be obtained at the level of the department. And I think that, in fact, with the same budget, we get more efficiency because this is a good measure especially when I say that we get a municipal court in Đakov, in Vinkovci, to return the Commercial Court to Dubrovnik. So obviously some things have proved to be both more effective or not effective enough and to get what is said in a certain way, so it can be said in a political note. If we look to solve a mini demographic potential problem, because when we have a court, we have a public notary like the secretary of state said we have lawyers, we have everything that follows. So, as much as it's employed, I think it's certainly not to exclude it, especially if it has a background, and that's primarily what's important on statistical indicators and that it's going to be really more effective. So I can really commend it on that side. Moreover, what is safe for praise is also related to the Supreme Court and the County Courts, and to the larger municipal courts, those with more than 50 judges should be told that in order to comply with EU rules and EU case law, the European Court of Justice is very important. So, we should have as much transparency as possible as possible with regard to the case law itself and the judgment itself. Because not a small number of times we know that we have really different court practices. We don't have that system of trial to look at a presidential trial, but surely it's not something to do. So, a new EU department is set up to do just that and inform and I think we need to work on greater education and education, informing judges in particular of these new offenders who will enter the system of civil, criminal whatever they are. I think it's one of the criteria we should look at anyway. All in all the time running out, I think there will certainly be opportunities to complete these proposals that are on track. Of course it doesn't have to stop at that. It'll show time that could have been even better, and it doesn't have to, they say here why we keep changing. So it needs to be constantly changed until you do what you really do, which will bring maximum results. Citizens will come to us dissatisfaction and there is generally great mistrust in the judiciary as long as there are a large number of cases so far we must not wait for this to be done alone, but it is the task of ensuring that all norms and all possible preconditions and thus organisational, infrastructure and all others are dealt with. Whether it is to increase the number of counselors who are indeed carrying a large part of the burden and decisions and the trial itself. I think you should think about that, too. But I'm saying we're going to back this up one more time in our first reading. And I would just ask that a clear and publicised even greater amount of transparency and that as regards the appointment of judges, the advancement of judges, and the work of judges, as regards the strict measures, and of course, as regards the indicators that preceded us today, we have a new network of courts and everything that has been going on here. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74084	Thank you. Before the replica with us are students of the Blaž Jure Trogirin secondary school from Trogir and their professors, so let's welcome them to this. We're moving on with the replicas. [[Applause.]] The first is a colleague of Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74085	Thank you very much. So in two minutes, I'll only limit myself to two things. First of all, you have also praised the increase in this emphasis, putting on some points, and reducing discretion when we talk about the appointment of DSV. Take a look at the public debate of the County Court in Split looking exactly the other way around, and that should be applied to them. So we here now say we'll do it, and you have people here who say no. Don't cut those points, because we don't think that's good. Public debate, people have taken such a stand, and they will be in front of the DSV and will be evaluated. So, I just want to say how relative it is. However, the other thing that is much more important is that a colleague cannot agree and you are also pushing and connecting the number of courts and employment in the judiciary with some kind of development. You said there were notebooks there, so these are gonna be fine. There's no correlation here. The court can come where there are many cases. There's a lot of objects where there's economic development. No one's gonna come work there because it's a court of law. We can't look at it that way. And the whole law enforcement thing is going that way. We've heard on the boards that this is a demographic measure, among other things. So if the Croatian demographics comes down to increasing by 10 courts, then we won't get far. So it can't be done with this. It's defeat. Where do all these people get their salaries from? They come from taxes. So if you're going to go up somewhere irrationally, you're going to take someone's salary. Let's pay someone to sit where they don't need to. Why? So that's where he'd be, that we could say we have a notebook or I don't know where, anywhere. That's not it. The idea of business is that he's developing, and these services are coming. The infrastructure needs to be developed, but not of this kind. No one has a problem going there because they know they'll get a better favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74086	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74087	Thank you, Vice President. So sory fellow... I have to doubt when you said first what the court counselors see. And my debate was to put more emphasis on the result, not on some acquaintances. If they think that, why is it easier when you know a man who chooses to make a deal with him, then over the link how it goes, so I know him, so the more I can arrange it, the more his influence is that I'm safer, and the less I have to do the results. Maybe that's why they're going. I say, this is how it seems to me that if we establish clear criteria of points, why and how and what are the conditions that surely the result of work must be on what precedes, or in creating total points than the interview itself that is always subjective and... As for the number of courts, I remember very well when we abolished the courts and spoke at the time with me and in Baranja when we abolished the Court of Justice in the White Manastir, we merged it even though I was saying it would not mean that there was no one else there, but there was no more President of the Court because it was most about him, but it remained a permanent service and that a lot of the public was bitter about it even though it wasn't... I must admit nothing changed the truth. But we're here saying that we can negotiate positions of jurisdiction, that's always a contract, when a local court is prescribed is agreed by a contract if there is a contract in Djakov, it will be in Djakov, if it is not there then we can't place him in the court of jurisdiction in Djakov. So that means we can already get an additional number of cases that go contractually and then actually don't stand because you can't put a permanent service as a competent court. So it's not a large number of 10 courts, I mean in the end these courts there in the form of misdemeanors have already been some or parts of the misdemeanor proceedings that went on will join. So we're not talking about some bigger expense, but it'll show time whether it was better or not, but in this demographic part... I think that...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74088	Thank you. Next fellow Darko Pritch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Curai, I'll do it a little differently. So the digital agenda, digital Europe, digital Croatia in Europe is the present and the future, unfortunately with us Croatians is just the future. And you encouraged me to do that because you mentioned information counselors and things like that. In fact, what is the fact that digitising or informing the public administration would solve a lot more problems than is present and former and all policies are actually aware and the rights of public administration reform if we really want to have one more radical information of the entire public administration sooner or later. The problem in the whole story, which even if the policy wants to do public administration information at this point in public administration, there is no one from the professional aspect of doing this reform, because public administration, state and state administration, IT experts and people who are dealing with IT do not recognise them as such or encourage them enough and subsidize them or pay them enough to come into the sector. If you remember about half a year ago there was a Personal Data Protection Agency report here that said they've been asking for IT employees for two years now, they can't find him to hire him because they offered too much pay that these people absolutely don't want to come to work with. What I just want to point out and say to you as part of the ruling coalition and the minister who said earlier that some new policies are being prepared, that we are really starting as a state to think that IT people and IT experts are people who need to see differently in the state system, which should be paid differently, and that really any reform or information tomorrow without these people will not be able to be, that the state must simply recognize this profession as something that is necessary to move forward. Today, unfortunately, that's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74090	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74091	That I can agree with everything you've said and we know what the future is and we know what the jobs of the future are. And when we talk about education, we know that first of all, those who finish information, especially at the FER, are more or less already employed and already at the age of 4 have practices and are employed. And we here were actually my intrinsics that people who are, say, what happens, someone who has completed an economy with the direction of Information Jobs can be an informer, and someone who is an IT officer can't be the director of, say, judicial administrations, even though these jobs are identical, even though he has ten exams on his exam and ten exams that talk about managing business organizations. So if we already admit that we need and that this is some agenda that we have to go to, I don't think we should say here that it's going to be a discretionary decision again, and the President of the Court, and who's going to be elected to that place, but closing the door certainly has all kinds of high-quality people around the courts, informers who do great work and without which the court couldn't even work, because it's clear to everyone that we can close the doors so that we can't make progress when we've already made it possible for these advisors and we've recognized the need and motivation and progress then I think it would be here eventually that people know why they're doing something and that they always have an opportunity to leave us and that we have another bigger problem, so that I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74092	Thank you. Next up is my colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74093	Thank you. Comrade Curai, when I listen to your exposure to me this looks like, here I can't take the impression that you would defend your position in the exact same way if the ruling says that the courts should be abolished or that the courts should be increased. I think your party supported a reduction in the number of courts last time, now that they've ruled that they need to be increased, so this will also support the increase in courts. Why am I telling you this? You rely on objective criteria all the time. I'm not getting into the number of courts right now. I want to know why you can't be open to the suggestions that other parliamentary deputies give you, even if they're out of opposition. So you're the one who said there won't be a continuous evaluation of the judges' work, he's gone. And I don't understand why there wouldn't be a continuous evaluation of why you're going to achieve greater transparency, you're going to achieve key changes in the system. That's what we warned you about yesterday. There is no mention, and brother I do not see a great desire that you will change anything compared to what you have heard from other parliamentary representatives as quality ideas, you cannot tell me that you are not for it, that ultimately judges are chosen by quality, transparently, that they can advance depending on their experience, their knowledge, and whether or not any politician, some friend will help them progress. Here I am, please, introduce a provision for quality assessment of judges' work, there are a number of things that need to be fixed but I will now highlight this one, after which I will highlight others. You have a chance, don't announce another mini reform in half a year, you have a chance now, change things, take this one, do this, be proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74094	Thank you, fellow Petrov. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74095	I thank you for this question of yours, although when we talk about the continued evaluation of judges, I have not talked, I have talked about whether there is no agreement between the opposition whether the limitation of the term of office should be 2 years, 1 year or unlimited. Some say there shouldn't be a two, some say one, so to achieve the continuity of work, not grading, I didn't mention it, but well, it's not a thing at all. As for referencing to previous things, first of all we have supported as well as when HDZ in 2015 I think it was, no, earlier changes that were, and of course it should be constantly evolved, I said. If you think you need to bring something now and never change it again, we're not gonna end up anywhere. If there's anything you can see that can be better, I don't see any reason why it shouldn't be done. I don't see it. No matter when or who said and did. We're not going to lead now what anybody did before and what year, year and a half where it went and what was done. So there's absolutely that argument that doesn't stand but well, it's some cheap political points that have nothing to do with this work at all. As for the continuous, of course first reading, everything will be considered, I'm not here in front of the promoter, you should refer to your proposals, we work for them here. I also have a proposal, the same one that speaks at the intensities to join the municipal and working court with the status and family dispute group at the municipal court in Zagreb. So, in my opinion, I'd like that part to be considered, too, because, say, family status cases have 1 140 cases on 12 judges and a working 2 400 on 22. We have each of our proposals, each of our proposals from our experience, and we propose to the Proposer not to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74096	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74097	Thank you, Vice President. So here from the debates so far, it is clear that the subject of the judiciary is especially from the point of view of the citizens' trust in the judiciary is actually opening up a broader spectrum of debate and I would like to concentrate exclusively on what you colleagues of Curaj, in your debate, mentioned judicial advisers where I will express my one personal position. In addition to the material and technical conditions that should really be improved within the work of the courts and the judiciary, without new employment of judicial advisers who want to help judges prepare for the debates until we introduce norms in the judiciary will not be moved to the efficiency of the work of the courts. And I believe that we need to talk about it, we simply need to introduce standards, and after that, after material and technical conditions, we need to introduce and evaluate. I think it's something that will restore citizens' trust in justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74098	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74099	Thank you. Yes, that's why in the debate, and I mentioned court advisors as well as IT advisers, so I think I'm looking at the court's work and I'm the result of the court's position, that it's neither grateful nor true. Because no judge, not one case is identical, two judges are not the same, so they're not two doors in the end line the same to look at it. We do not have this way of working Presidentically to call on decisions to previous judgments but surely we do and we need to have as many quality people as possible who are preparing, who are making all the preparations necessary to make a fair decision. We've heard here many times that law and justice aren't always the same, I mean, they're not the same, of course, but they're not going into each other, but I agree with you that more emphasis on counselors, yes. Here is a proposal to enable people to progress, to be more motivated by it, and of course what I said about the speaker that we should look at financial resources to increase numbers, and that's where we agree. So it's absolutely cheaper to still be a court advisor than a judge because it can be deployed to a wider number of work assignments that has and not just one judge, and I think that's one thing to say to these court officials, one of the important things to get to the number of all satisfied cases that are pending that it's not such a large number.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74100	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Peric Grodan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74101	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Curaj, I'll look back on actually a network of courts that's in their own being an organism that changes as well as a network of infirmarys and things like that. Therefore, at a certain point it certainly appears, it is commendable that the total number has decreased since 2008, but I say at a certain point it really is necessary to expand here and, among other things, these 10 municipal courts. What I am very interested in with regard to the judicial advisers, I would personally like to have judicial advisers to have more and that it can be helped in the way that we in the local community too have suggested that they be strengthened in a way that they can be resolved as soon as possible, because it happens in areas where certain local committees are geodeticly recorded that these proceedings are not implemented until the end because there are too few judicial advisers who can then carry out all these proceedings and do so. So it is in the spirit of what is the goal of all of us to actually fix our land-book state and in these parts of especially Dalmatia that has very many unsolved precisely these objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74102	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74103	Here's a thank you. So that I think you said one important, good thing that both the state and its residents are actually a living body that is changing, so certain services of the state must certainly follow that and that the movement and the number of inhabitants, and therefore the number of cases, the trial itself and everything that goes on, is certainly something that goes on in favor and just before I say that the needs and efficiency of course and the very needs of indicators in our places, cities, municipalities, etc. And that's also one of the indicators. And that's actually why I've been looking for that analysis and statistical indicators that are the basis of these decisions. I think it would be easier for you all today if we could discuss it even better, and as far as the court advisors are concerned, I will repeat once again that what I said absolutely is the future of quality trial, faster, more efficient and in increasing numbers and in their education and training. So we don't just have to look at the continuing training of judges. And it may be necessary now to use these misdemeanors who have to and will have to be educated for certain other subjects, i.e. further perfected to put in there a certain number of advisers that change both societies and business processes, of course and relations, so there is certainly room for them to perfect themselves, to be as large as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74104	We're done arguing on behalf of the clubs. Now we're going to have individual discussions. First up is a colleague of Nikola Grmoy's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74105	Thank you. Here we have succeeded in making this debate in these normal hours, these essential laws that will affect our judiciary. I'll only give you as much time as I can in these 10 minutes to make some remarks and our suggestions. As for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Courts in Articles 1 and 18, we see that the Government abolishes the position of the Registrar of the Court. We see this paper as a problem, given that the Registrar has an important role to play in ensuring the legal certainty of those businesses for which expertise, legal knowledge and experience are needed. So the amendments to this draft law bring together the functions of the Registrar of the Court and the Director of the Judicial Administration. This is a illogical change to us. For example, a director, as an economist, cannot be responsible and in charge, or professional enough for legal issues such as official relations or other contractual relations. The President of the Court shall be responsible for the judicial administration, the Director of Justice, and the Registrar of the Court shall, for example, deal with those issues which are covered by legal services in other bodies. We believe that this proposal changes the additional balance in the organisation of work and the division of the liability of stakeholders, and in this sense we propose not to touch the functions of the secretary of the court, but to work only to further distinguish the affairs of the judicial and judicial administration. Article 15 states that the High Court of Violation is not directly superior to the municipal courts, and out of the majority of power, jurisdiction, if not everyone is indeed directly superior to the judges of the basic courts who solve the infringement cases. So judges who will be tried in criminal cases will be subject to double supervision which puts them in an unequal position compared to other judges in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, if the County Court is a directly higher court, it has the powers to supervise the work of municipal courts and judges without exception. As the High Violent Court decides to appeal to decisions of municipal courts in infringement cases, it also has powers of supervision through decisions on appeal, but also through supervision of the work of judges who do criminal cases. According to EU standards, a judge must not be subject to control that puts him in an unequal position compared to other judges. It's unclear the sense of leaving the High Violent Court as an independent court. Much more objectively, it would be more effective to connect jurisdiction to the meaning of the High Court of Violation and the County Court. So we propose that jurisdiction be brought together with the jurisdiction of the county courts in the second degree, and that the judges of the High Violent Court become judges of the County Court. So that's our proposal. We propose and prescribe the compulsory education of every newly appointed President of the Court. In that, it will also adapt the education programme to the president who is already acting in office. The importance of educating the president on management skills is part of the standards that many countries are implementing in the EU. We just don't have an excuse if we don't prescribe it. We have an institution to implement it, we have countless reasons to do it. We also propose, so the only good practice of Article 20 is changed, and that is the appointment of a person authorised to perform judicial affairs while the President of the Court is not yet appointed. The minister of justice's role is being moved. This isn't a good change for us. We appeal not to touch the current system. There are a number of reasons. Some of the basics are that the minister of justice whose powers here are completely abolished was a corrective body that, with a professional level and careful consideration of potential candidates, contributed to the balance in the system. The Ministry as the body managing the organisation of the system should be a lever that will temporarily replace the role of decision-makers at the given time when the need arises. In this case, it is the appointment of the President of the Court as a corrective emergency. It is therefore necessary to work to avoid situations where officials must be appointed rather than to move the role of the only expert body in the system. Article 28 on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, I welcome it, given that it is largely taken over from the Bridge's drafts, but is not prescribed, and we believe that it should very much be in the Government's drafts that the President of the Supreme Court can only be the judge of that court, and that if a criminal offence is brought against the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, it will be resolved. So that's our proposal. We see that the Ministry of Justice has proposed such a solution in the DORH Law on the grounds of discharge of the duties of the Attorney General, which is commendable and we suggest that it be prescribed for the President of the Supreme Court, although everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. In the case of the President of the Supreme Court, the situation is not regular, i.e. we should try to imagine the situation, which is being brought against the President of the Supreme Court against abuse of power of office, judges to whom the president has been appointed, and as the head of the judicial authority is appointed to all judges in the Republic of Croatia, should be tried. Try to imagine at lunchtime, which means, I don't know if it will be, that the president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia walks to the county court where he's being charged, perhaps for the most severe crimes, then returns to lead the judicial authority. As much as I have, four more minutes, I won't be able to make all these proposals, but I'm sure my colleague Podolnjak, too, will, something when he comes to the hearing. We also believe that in the part of the law relating to the Judicial Council we have only a comment since we believe that it should not exist, and that the judicial evaluation procedure should be reformed rather than further strengthen this nakaradic system that we currently have. The Judicial Council has completely failed in its role, and it is precisely the work of the Judicial Councils that is seen as one of the most problematic mechanisms in the system of appointments, unequal practice, work evaluation methodologies, judicial councils as a tool that allows a huge space for policy influence, guessing and negative selection in the system. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 42. It is prescribed that the judicial inspector may be persons who fulfil the conditions for a senior expert or senior management adviser, and judges who meet the conditions for judges of the county court have experience in performing the affairs of the judicial administration. We think this is a illogical change. A senior professional advisor may be a person with barely 3 years of experience, and an administrative advisor may be a person with medium professional training with 3 years of experience and according to the government's proposal, these persons may be judicial inspectors without other conditions. While the judicial inspector from the judge's office may be the only person who has the conditions for a county court judge for 10 years as a judicial officer. So we propose that we prescrib the affairs of a judicial inspector can be carried out by persons who have completed a graduate, university law study, passed a judicial exam and at least 8 years of work experience in the relevant jobs. Compared to others, which are related to assessing the work of judges, we find it an opportunity to regulate the system according to European standards, by introducing a continuous evaluation in which we wrote on several occasions. In the work of judges, we will launch key changes in the system, the evaluation is then easily linked to education, progress in paid classes, progress in the system and others. But especially to overcome the negative influence of politics on the process of naming judges, which we consider to be the biggest problem. Quality and sound competition is being created, we simply believe that the government has completely failed with these proposals and does not want to take advantage of the opportunity and make further changes in the system. By introducing a continuous system of evaluation of judges' work, we would make an important change in the system, which would act positively on several fonts as we have already stated. Following this, we will not waste time commenting on how unacceptable both the provisions on the judiciary councils and the nakaradic selective evaluations they carry out. Methodology applied by the Judicial Council in certain courts is unambiguous and unfair. Framework measures which are the main basis for evaluation are not objectively set norms and do not match the actual work of judges. It is necessary to change the system from a mere number of objects to the assessment of weight factors, the duration of the action depending on the weight factors, and the time the judge has available. Framework criteria today cause unrealistic and fictitious suffocating of the system, it is necessary to free judges from framework criteria and how to evaluate and determine the necessary work result and that is what we propose on objective and legal criteria. Since I don't have any more time means going further into analysis, and we have criticism and the proposals mean how to improve these legal proposals because Most left the Ministry of Justice with legal reform of the judiciary, but here you have unfortunately decided to, you have decided to make it a lot easier and this isn't really a mini reform, as you called it, there are some attempts, which we will certainly welcome, but given the situation in the Croatian judiciary, this is not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74106	Thank you, fellow Grumoji. We have three replicas, first colleague Pernar Ivan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74107	... Thank you very much. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, my colleague Grumoja, I'm taking the opportunity to replicate you, although I would actually, here I'll ask you for a comment, writes Tomo Ljujic, the man was a HDZ voter, says, like this, they betrayed me and it's definitely over with them. And angle. he explains the following, says he worked at a company and received a verdict in his favour, however, the verdict was dragged very long, and at the moment it was resolved, that is, when he handed the verdict over to the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, judge Allen Golub said, he did not know what was going on, and the bankruptcy manager, Nevenka Koroman, informed him that he was late with his claim. And he was actually going to say, that he was right, in the end he got the verdict, but he applied too late for bankruptcy and he won't be able to charge himself. And he's actually a victim of this same judiciary. I asked him, would you still vote for HDZ, if you hadn't hung up? He'd say so. And he says, "I'm writing a team from HDZ, nobody says I'm... He says, please, Pernar, tell you about it and I ask you to tell you what the HDZ voters tell you, whether you are disappointed, bitter about problems in the judiciary and, in fact, with the story that their own HDZs are not listening to them and that they don't care about their problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand it's the chooser of the Living Wall, so then let the HDZ tell him what we care about you. But this is about their constituent, and I think with this HDZ policy, it's actually losing voters, and it's kind of a good thing for us, and on the other hand, it's a bad thing for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74108	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74109	Dear counterpart Pernar, as far as the judiciary is concerned, I think the disappointment of Croatian citizens is independent of the political option they belong to. Of course, people come to me with concrete problems, and yesterday I brought one here in the Croatian Parliament, and you may hear from those disappointed former HDZ members because you are also a disappointed HDZ member and then people here recognize that you are the right address maybe to contact you. So, here, all citizens appear to me regardless of the political option they belong to, I believe the same thing because they recognize that their problems here in the Croatian Parliament will be brought out, which you do, and here I am also trying to warn through my activities here not only in the Croatian judiciary but in the Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74110	Thank you. A colleague, Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74111	Thank you. Comrade Grmoy, you have presented a set of suggestions and reflections in the context of everything that needs to be done in the judiciary, but I would, for now in my replica, be kept on a very narrow issue, so let us call it, as regards the daily life of natural persons, but also the blockades or the course of economic activities. Namely, it's a book solution. We have land-booking departments in the Republic of Croatia which, within a few hours or one day, issue a solution to the book, but we also have courts, or grantines, that issue it within a few months, and unfortunately there are those who, where several years are waiting. So that's one problem from everyday life that opens up a few questions. First, something that isn't fair. Those who work, who have agreed to the garland, issue solutions in the course of one day, they are additionally burdened, and those who do not do their work are relieved in a way that their objects are transferred to those who do, and on the other hand we have a problem one that opens up the space of corrupting operations, why in certain grants wait so long and whether we can and why I am in my own replica that we have to introduce norms. If we don't introduce norms, if we don't introduce digitization, we simply won't be able to move the efficiency of the work of the courts and the land-book department from the dead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74112	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74113	Dear colleague. So garters aren't the subject of these laws, they're means, part of the court as a whole, but I absolutely agree with what you said. These are the problems to work on. Here, there are the representatives of the Ministry, I hope they heard what you've warned them about, and through the changes, they announce that this is just the beginning, that we're going to start solving these problems, and there's interest, and I think, all of us in this House specifically means that we who come from these environments and we know what the problems are to bring it out here, and I believe that through the legislative proposals, it will be dealt with. I think that fellow Milenic also spoke of digitisation as something necessary, so that our judiciary would be effective at all. So in that sense, I agree with you, but it's not part of these changes that I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74114	Thank you. And the last replica of the presentation of his colleagues, Grumoje, is the replica of his colleagues, Petrov Bozo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74115	Thank you, Chairman. What MOST is proposing with a mini reform that they like to call HDZ colleagues, regardless of what is here, is trying to explain to them how this reform will look hugely, so grandly, that here they announced that they will be doing another small reform of the judiciary after all this, I think one item that is illogical to me is underlining. It is illogical for me that there is a continued policy impact on the DSV, it is illogical for ME to have parliamentary representatives as members of the DSV, today to amend the law. And I believe that they would achieve a consensus in the Croatian Parliament they would not miss the hand and for the change of the Constitution to remove parliamentary representatives, to move politics from the DSV because then we will not have parliamentary representatives who will press other parliamentary representatives to keep quiet, not to question the action of the DSV we have this situation current with you, with colleague Lackovic, with a colleague, your colleague Lackovic, as far as I heard he filed a lawsuit for the reason that you questioned the work of DSV. I'm really interested in, here, not just you, but what other parliamentary representatives say? Are they for them to continue to act through the DSV and in such a way as to see which judges will eventually be appointed, which candidates will choose and what our judiciary will look like in the first place. Whether it will be independent, transparent, or we will only keep an eye on everything, and actually do what politics requires.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74116	Answer. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74117	I remind the Croatian public that since we have taken responsibility for the judicial portfolio, and that the laws are what they are, that it is even necessary to change the Constitution, that politics does not have such an impact in the DSV, precisely with HDZ, we have had the most conflict over who will have this member of the State Judicial Council because we knew that HDZ and all those who have led politics in the Republic of Croatia want to influence the appointment and election of judges, their advancement. And we in our reform suggested that it means it is our proposal, to go into change, that politicians should not be part of the DSV, and counterpart Lackovic took advantage of his position in the DSV, sued me for slander because I said that DSV is the source of all problems in the Croatian judiciary which is pure logic because if the judiciary is in trouble, it is probably responsible for whoever chooses and improves judges. I think we can agree on that and my colleague Lackovic has sued me, and imagine what will happen to me, I am now a witness in a case against Hanza Media where, because of this interview, a judge from Split has sued a member of the DSV and will probably go after me with claims for damages. I said I was willing to pay that price for a better Croatian judiciary and in my case I will be tried by judges and sued by those who choose them and promote them. So how do you think the judges who will decide my fate in that case, how will they judge? And look at how colleague Lackovic took advantage of his position in DSV. And that's one absurd and it has to change. And I will continue to fight for the more transparent and better Croatian judiciary, regardless of the pressures I am under.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74118	Thank you, time. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday and today, in his discussions, his colleagues, Grmoja, repeatedly violates Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in that section relating to the subject of the debate. I fully understand that he has certain private legal relations with Mr. Lackovic and I fully understand his view that what he is being sued for is inappropriately or that is why the rapporteur is being sued but this is not the subject of today's debate and I would really ask you to warn your colleague, Mr. Grmoy, next time, to return the legislative act and put your private legal relations aside.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74120	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bozo Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74121	I can also quote Article 238, as my colleague Grbin said, even though neither his articles or injuries to the Rules of Procedure apply to Article 238, I only believe that Mr Grbin said something that is not true after all because, on the basis of his example, Mr Grumoja came forward about what the DSV looks like and works today, and today we are discussing a law that should rightly improve their performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74122	Okay, we can continue with an individual discussion. Here you go, colleague Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A lot of topics have already been processed here, so I'm not going to go into the details of most of it, but I'd like to point out a few things. First of all, regarding the merger of criminal and municipal courts, I think it's a good solution given the inflow of 20,000 fewer cases in the last if I'm not mistaken, two to three years, and that should be welcomed. However, as far as I understand it, it is the idea to form special infringement departments in municipal courts that will continue to do criminal cases while part of the offenders will be redistributed to performances, contractual relations, etc. It is certainly commendable but should be pointed out, I think that this is already said and in the debate that criminal law and civil law are quite different areas of law, that judges who may have not done anything about civilians for a long time should also pass certain educations, seminars, I believe that the ministry will take care of it, but it is certainly something that needs to be worked out at the beginning. What would especially be addressed, however, is the issue of assessing the work of judges. So there's a lot of talk, a lot of talk unargumented, no facts and a lot of use of floscule. As regards the assessment of the work of judges on a continuous basis, I would point out immediately that the percentages of the assessment of the work of the judges referred to in Article 97 exist, however, to determine whether the judge fulfils all the obligations laid down in Article 95. The Court of Justice Act, which shall be carried out by the Presidents of the Courts, who shall examine whether the criteria applicable to the evaluations referred to in Article 97 have been met. We can say whether this system is missing or not, but certainly a certain system of surveillance and control exists all the time. Furthermore, it is certainly good to assess the work of judges in the direction of defining objective criteria. It's something that especially on the first ball this looks good and generally needs to be hailed. On the other hand, the fact is that quantifying the work of judges is quite a slippery ground, so we have a lot of professional literature, scientific and media inscriptions. The fundamental reason for that is the fact that different judges work different kinds of cases. For example, in litigation cases you have a lot more complaints than in extra-parisal cases, which automatically brings some judges into a different position, or an unequal position than others. Furthermore, even within the same type of case, there is an imbalance because the more experienced judge will often work simpler cases such as non-payment of accounts, etc., while the more experienced judges will do property-legal items, property-legal ones that can corrupt their statistics. What should be pointed out is that the key role is actually played by the Presidents of the Courts who can have a strong impact on judges' evaluations through the establishment of the annual schedule of jobs. In this respect, they may have a significant impact on the purely quantitative criteria set out in point 1 of Article 97 and the quality criteria referred to in point 2. There is also, for example, the problem of judges who work only one very complex case such as Agrokor as at the Commercial Court in Zagreb, so those persons who have to simply concentrate on such a large and complex subject cannot in any way or very difficult to achieve the criteria for progress. So that's how you actually create an incentive to go through a less resistance line in the system, which is certainly not what we're trying to do. Furthermore, he would stick to the quality of the decisions the judge can get at most 60 points. The number of confirmed, abolished, repealed and amended decisions in relation to the number of decisions declared by legal medicinal products and the number of decisions establishing an essential infringement of the procedure in relation to the number of decisions where legal medicinal products have been declared shall be taken into account here. It's good, it represents a certain step forward, some things are specified there but also what's the fact that you're not considering where there are no complaints. Which may be something that still be part of the segment especially when assessing the work of judges to be taken into account, so I suggest that we think about it anyway. In addition, some types of cases also have very few complaints such as some registers and court registers which should also be taken into account when assessing and defining criteria. Furthermore, if we look at other criteria, meaning experience, regularity in the conduct of a judicial duty, you can get equal to 10 points. Also for all other activities. What I certainly welcome is that for the first time, what is defined among other things falls under other activities. It is therefore an activity in professional training, as a lecturer at seminars and workshops of the judicial academy, publication of professional and scientific papers in the field of legal science, membership in working groups for draft draft laws, etc. So it's certainly good that we now have some sort of list that defines what other activities of the judges that are being stabbed. However, what needs to be taken into account is that the list is still open, so it is open to the possibility to interpret it equally widely. So you might also need to think, just as the possibility of maybe expanding that list a little bit, if necessary, but to make one closed list so that we have very clear criteria here that everything goes on with other judges' activities. Anyway, to sum up this part. So objective criteria are good, I support this step towards objectiveization, and so is the choice of DSV, but it is important not to stimulate people who want to go forward and do as simple as possible. So where there are no cancellations and unknowns, then where do we bring an executive outsider judge into a better position than judges who work more complex objects? What's important here, however, is what's said here, but perhaps not enough, and these are indicative criteria. So what's important here is that the law sets out broad criteria that should then be developed through framework criteria. And that's what we need to follow this whole package of laws to do through framework criteria then make that clear, fine distinction between different types of objects, different procedures. Same in experience. So, in experience, experience carries 10 points, you have to build a clear buildup. If someone doesn't have a 10-year experience, they get one point, and someone who's 11 gets 10 points. So these are the criteria to make that.../The speaker speaks English./... where it should be as precise as possible so as not to add pears and apples. And only then will we get a more objective and better measure of the value of every judge. So, but it takes serious work and it can't be done in some kind of straight house. Next, I'd like to point out two more things. So, the first one's tied to the court's advisors. So this is certainly a step forward, but the fact is that judicial advisers especially in some courts work a lot of cases, more than judges, that they are not enough and that they are largely underpaid. I think that period has been going on since the 1990s. So it is certainly something that should be taken into account in the long term is to continue to improve the position of judicial advisers, and to see how their material position can be improved as well. Okay. In the section relating to the area of the seat of the courts, just to take a brief look at it, so it's important that there are objective criteria. So speaking by heart needs a court here or there without objective statistical criteria, so the number of inhabitants, the number of cases is very difficult. The ministry has set one of the criteria, and that is, if I'm not mistaken, 50,000 inhabitants for the municipal court, but what would be good is that these criteria might be further in the explanation deepened and explained, so that we don't have these flat-rate attacks in style why they didn't get this city's court, but that one. So the criteria need to be objective, so no one should complain if they didn't get a single court in that case. I also support the establishment of a Commercial Court in Dubrovnik, I know what the problems were. So, when he had to travel several hundred kilometers to Split. Dubrovnik is specific here. There may not be so many residents, but it's a very dynamic economic area, increasingly dynamic, more and more contracts, legal transactions that are being concluded, so it's logical that the network of courts adapts to that. It's about some previous debates, it's that the network of courts is not a static matter. So, economic relations change, social relations change, somewhere we have more legal relations than anywhere else, and it's normal for the judicial network to adapt to that. So I think it's the wrong approach to try to define a perfect ideal network that will remain that way forever and ever. I think there's a need for flexibility, so I welcome this. As for DSV, so, the composition of the DSV, we have different attitudes in the opposition itself. For example, counterpart Milenic believes that politics should be brought back more inside, some believe that politics should be removed from the outside, the fact is that certain surveillance must exist. So, you can't just waist yourself and make rules and choose each other. The question of where is this supposed to go? I think this is a good solution, I think the discretion of the DSV is shrinking and I certainly welcome it, but still, going beyond that, I don't think it's useful. Also, as far as the DSV composition itself is concerned, it is said that the Constitution should be changed for that, so it is something that should certainly go through some more serious debate if it were to go in that direction, but I don't think that would be good. Besides, I certainly support raising the criteria. So raising the criteria is always good. This certainly raises the quality of the judicial work itself, and I would like to point out the provision under which the Judge of the County Court, the High Criminal Court, the High Commercial and High Administrative Court can now be appointed a person who has worked as a judicial official for at least 10 years. So, for 10 years, it's been eight so far. I think it's a positive shift and I think it's a good thing that it's been specified that the person who worked, and not who worked all the time, so it allows someone who might have become a lawyer or something like that to be there, means that there, maybe then re-apply to the judge, I think it's a good thing that there's this flexibility. Finally, I suggest we consider introducing an opportunity to explicitly prescribe that an extremely high court judge can be temporarily transferred to a lower court. We have a situation in some courts, such as the Commercial Court in Zagreb, that we have had a quite large drain of judges in recent years, and yet on the other hand, a large flow of new cases. So I think we should think about this possibility just to allow this flexibility. I know the DSV isn't exactly prone to it, so it means that it's more going towards the appointment of new judges, etc., but I think that this would allow some additional opportunities, so it's definitely something to think about. That's it. So, of course I support this package of laws and I think they represent a step forward, but here, just with the request to consider some of the remarks that I made, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74124	Thank you very much. Before we move on to replicas, allow me to welcome on behalf of all of us members of the Community women “Katarina Zrinska” from Brod-Posavina County and it is appropriate to welcome them on these days in particular. Give it up! Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the replicas. The first one came from a respected representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74125	Reverend Sokol, there's a great resemblance between you and me. You believe this move will solve problems in the Croatian judiciary or rather, in Croatian courts. But I think your view is naive, and I'm telling you firsthand. I was a member of HDZ, I believed, then Ivo Sanader, as you now trust Andrej Plenkovic. And after about six months, I realized it wasn't going anywhere. And I call upon you to open your eyes and heart to get out of HDZ, to simply move to the side of the resistance and to rebel against this system which, through this criminal justice, digs us deeper and deeper and that has paralysed the entire state and made 4 million of our citizens to their hostages. I believe that you yourself are witnesses of young people leaving the country every day, how employees are becoming less and less employed, how the company is shut down by business. Here are now reporting on May 3rd is total collapse, Petrochemy Kutina, Ulnik, Brodotrogir simply like mushrooms after the rain no problems under this country's leadership. People dig through garbage, I don't know if you've seen how many bottle pickers and beggars around town. Don't support that policy because there's no better tomorrow, there's no for our society. Maybe for you personally, you'll be better off than HDZ's policy, but don't just look at your own interest, look at the interest of society as a whole. And if you won't watch, the question of who will because HDZ is holding HRT and since HRT is being controlled by people is being manipulated and will vote again for that party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74126	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear how touched your words are by a respected representative of the Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74127	Thank you very much. Look, colleague Pernar, I don't believe he'll get rid of everything, nor did I say that, there are no magical solutions to a magic wand like some people think. Here's someone who suggested some changes that are more or less cosmetic, and some say they're a major reform, and now they're going to change that. It won't, so there's no magic wand. What I think and I explained is that this package of laws is also a step in the right direction and I explained why specifically, so we need to talk to facts, arguments. I also made some remarks that I think you might consider improving. We will get a securely reasoned answer yes or no, this is how the debate in the Assembly should function concretely and every shift is a step forward. If we are generally just talking against everything then and we are not offering any concrete solutions, then we are not doing citizens any favors. As for the problem, that there are many problems, most of them have been inherited from before, most of them are the result of long, long things being dragged away since the end of the '80s if you want and blame the foundations of the then economy which may not have been clearly solved enough and there has been a clear cut of the 1990s due to social peace and other things, and so now we have a situation that we have and it's not good enough. But to say that it's the responsibility of this government that's come to the wrong so many problems that have been squatting all the time under the surface I don't think it's really correct and I think it's really trying to do the best. Does that work? Probably not always, nobody's perfect. But I think it's really doing the best that it can, and I think it needs to be supported, not going on to give up the lowest passions where there are no concrete solutions and improvements.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74128	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peje Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been listening to your debate, dear colleague, and I have to apostrophe one part of your debate where we basically agree, and which represents one of me, I'm not going to say the biggest, but certainly the biggest offenses to this bill, which is the lack of objective indicators that have led to this change in the network of courts. You might say that this is about rationalization by saying that criminal courts are being joined, so when we look at the number of misdemeanors and municipal courts, we come to the fact that the total number of courts will be smaller. On the other hand, I will say that this is not about rationalisation, but about the expansion of the network because the number of municipal courts means those courts that will be dealt with in both civil and criminal and other matters in general. For both of us, however, we do not have objective indicators of burden, and we cannot say why, at certain times, a decision was made, for example, to leave the Criminal Court in Zagreb. We can't talk at all about what objective criteria were to make a decision that despite the fact that mistrials are being joined with municipal courts, we are holding the High Criminal Court, especially at the time when we are going to see as many cases as possible from the county courts going to different courts and, for example, the County Court in Pula solves the appeal for the judgment of the Municipal Court in Split. So I ask you a question, then why such a high-level criminal court? And I ask you a question, are you as someone who has expressed a very objective and realistic remark from the ruling option, are you familiar with the criteria that led, for example, to keep this high-profile court in spite of all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74130	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear the answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74131	Thank you very much. Well, as far as the data is concerned, I think they're said to be delivered. Some of them are uncommunicated, I think it's said that one of the criteria is about 50,000 people for one court if I get it right. As far as the other criteria are concerned, it is already on the board that I think more precise data will be provided. I believe it'll be ready by the second reading. As regards the criteria themselves, certainly the burden is an important thing, it is clear, however, of course not all courts have the same number of courts to consider, but it is also not the only criterion to be taken into account. You need to take a geographical distance, yes, so citizens don't go to courts much except in grant disputes, but in some cases they really need it, plus this psychological demographic moment that we mentioned. So I think that, the burden is important, I believe we'll get all the concrete data and then of course we'll have a further argumentative discussion about it. But I'm saying, we need to take into account a series of criteria, so again we don't need to just quantify there are some specificities. Let's say, I say Dubrovnik is specific, it's separate from the rest of Croatia, the city is where we have great economic growth, growth in the amount of economic activity, growth in the number of legal relations. It's also some things that need to be considered perhaps in advance. So you also have to do some pre-evaluation, a certain number of years, whether the number of objects in a given area will increase or not. So I say, that's a rather complex question, and I believe that we're going to get an adequate analysis from the Ministry of Justice, that is, even more detailed analysis than we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74132	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74133	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you immediately said that you believed that the Ministry of Justice and Working Group, based on objective indicators, decided on the establishment of 10 new municipal courts, from Crikvenica, Đakova, Kutina, Makarska, Metković, Pazina, Sesveta, Split, Vinkovac and Zagreb. I will tell you that even with this task force, let's say the case, an example of two permanent services from Imotski and Makarska, as well as local communities, where we participated intensively in discussions with the Ministry of Justice and, in fact, the basis of certain indicators, showed that it was not good, to say in the municipal court, 2 in Split, that it is far better to have a municipal court in Makarska and a permanent service in Imotski. In particular, if misdemeanor courts are joined both in Imotska and Makarska and in terms of the number of cases. We then actually presented all the cases with which he had, pending cases, permanent service in Imotsko and 4153 and in Makarska 4718, and we said what the number of judges, judicial advisers and officials in those courts was. State Secretarys at the Ministry and here present Mr. Martinović and Mr. Turkalj discussed it and actually respected all of our arguments. So the criteria existed and there was talk about it. The fact is that it's impossible in the Republic of Croatia, that we've been enslaved for many years, almost 20 years, that actually when we break something up, it goes to harm, some kind of middle to the expense of another environment for some political reasons. I'm sure that's not what this was about, and one of the biggest reasons or what the ministry was going on was raising the accessibility of the courts to the citizens and I think it was a good reason and a good decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74134	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74135	Thank you very much. Well, here, colleague Babic, I'm glad we have a positive example, I believe it was just objective indicators, you mentioned and that's what's key. The key is there's no volunteering here. To be clear, the Ministry of Justice would have been the most politically simple, if it had remained in equal numbers. And to say, that's so, it's meant to us, for political reasons, so that someone doesn't get angry about getting this one and not that one, we're not going to get into it right now. I don't think that's the right way and that we need to adapt to real circumstances, but again to objective criteria, objective and clear criteria. And that's the most important thing with as little arbitration as possible. The other thing that's also important, so what Col. Miljenic said earlier in the debate, I agree. It is very important to have judges who have a lot of objects, especially in a particular area that is thus forged, which thus enters into the depths of certain segments of the right and which are then of course much better in that part. But what matters is that every court doesn't have the same number of judges. So there's also room for variation, depending on the number of cases, so that they're judges so that the number of cases per judge is adequate, that they can get enough experience, specialize, etc. So I think this is one positive example, I believe it is in other cases, and I believe we'll figure it out until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74136	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the next individual debate, which is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74137	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The debate is the Law of Courts, and what is the situation in courts, so I can personally say that it is a disaster, because I have experience with the Croatian judiciary myself, I have experience, where the court has generally found me guilty, although the evidence all points out that I am not guilty. I complained to the county court, the county court simply confirmed the judgment of the municipal court, as possible, I don't know. Here, so I speak firsthand, I have experience with our judiciary. Often, the judiciary is such that it is unfair in itself, and I will give you an example of one, it is a case of an executive case, the following, says the Municipality Court of Bjelovar, according to Judge Mirela Horvatic, as an individual judge, in the executive case, the head of Raiffeisen Bank,... etc. Something further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the bank has launched an action against Djura Belec from Bjelovar, Katice Belec from Bjelovar and Sanja Belec Bačekovic from Bjelovar, now what is it about. They called on that so-called law. non-legislative, means where credits with international characteristics can be disputed, while until the determination of integrity can be stopped, that the performance can be stopped until further a contract is set or the contract is correct. And watch this, the court has rejected a proposal from the perpetrator, for a delay in the execution, and here's an explanation. Despite the fact that this court is subject to litigation, the Court has already decided, in its proposal to postpone an operation based on the same reasons, by some of 31 January, which explains that the conditions laid down in the provisions of the Law on the integrity of the credit agreement with an international mark have not been met. And what's this about? Here it says, it says, that an executive case is being conducted against the debtor, and that in this case, it turns out that the conditions of the prescribed article are not met. Paragraph 1 of the Law on Vulnerability for the postponement of the performance, since the loan contract is concluded in the Republic of Austria, not in the Republic of Croatia. So an executive can't be considered an unauthorized believer. So, in this judgment, Judge Mirela Horvatic actually says this: The suit for damages which the perpetrator contests the possibility of a performance by that RBA credit cooperative is as far as I understand from this, irrelevant to them. To them it is important, i.e. the court, Judge Mirela Horvatic entered into the interpretation that the contract is correct because it is concluded in Austria and not in Croatia, so it does not apply to this case. However, one thought needs to be noted. She says the next thing you know, it's an article six. The law on the futility of the credit agreement with an international mark states: "The court will postpone the execution of the debtor's proposal until the legal end of the proceedings for the purpose of establishing no harm, without questioning the existence of other prerogatives on the delay of the exercise on the proposed perpetrators." That is what the colleague in the executive judge says is not to question it. It's being questioned in the process. So we have a case? We have a case that the judge allowed the execution by saying that, in fact, she entered into an interpretation of where the contract was concluded, and as far as I understand from the message of that lady's impunity suit is still under way. So if it's true what the lady is saying, if the claim of integrity is still pending, it's not legally completed, then the judge, if I'm not mistaken, is Mirela Horvatic, should have suspended the exercise. However, from what the executioner writes to me, if what she says is true is that the dispute that determines integrity is under way, and that the court has nevertheless ruled that the exercise goes further, that the court has entered the finality of the matter, then it seems that in fact this Law on the integrity of the credit agreement with the international mark does not necessarily protect the perpetrators and that the executions continue. This is the problem, these amendments to the Law on Courts will not solve and in fact what this law deals with is over-deprecation. It's like putting 20 SDPs on benches where HDZs are, and we transfer 20 HDZs to where the SDPs are sitting right now. And what will eventually change for the citizens? Nothing. The same judges will continue to judge and the same MPs will continue to decide. Their composition is still the way it is. We've been here for hours, actually, discussing what? What about ladies and gentlemen? We're discussing where the judges will be, etc. I think that as much as the issue of territorial organisation of the courts is, in some ways, relevant that it is not an essential question, that the essential question is the quality of the judgments that the courts are making no matter where they are. And those judgments are questionable. I'll give you another example. You have a situation where your debt for 100 kuna never goes out of date and if you kill someone's man, it gets old to you. Here's a case where criminal cases go into oblivion in traffic accidents, in the case of crime, especially crimes involving HDZ members. There's a lot going on around here. And the question should be asked whether the fundamental problem is that there is no justice, which is not fair judgments, which is a paralysed legal system. Justice simply as corrupt as that, there are corrupt judges in it. Will these amendments to the Law on Courts solve this? Whether the verdicts will go in favor of the perpetrators. I don't think so, because I think it's a much higher priority to actually pass a new executive law that would cut public notes, lawyers, etc. Because in the current system of kuna debt, you can actually draw huge money from the perpetrators. And again, I note the problem of the HRT execution, because HRT actually systematically, I would dare tell the citizens about the money and not just the money for that unfortunate TV subscription, but to take away more for them, or take away a bunch of other costs that have nothing to do with the subscription itself. And people write to me every day about the HRT subscription problem. The annual HRT 100 000 e-mails. Imagine how many courts, or how much the system is buried, actually with the executives. Only HRT 100 000 tops. And instead of going after it to unload the courts, to save somehow the citizens just doesn't change anything. So their controllers are still harrassing around people's houses, investigating, sniffing who's got TV. And then even they say, it doesn't matter why you don't have TV. If you have a big phone, if you have a cell phone, you have to pay for a TV subscription. So what are the laws? And you ladies and gentlemen who have passed such laws, that people literally have to pay HRT subscription for their cell phone. I'm not on my cell. I'm sorry, this isn't my cell phone so there's no confusion from HRT. On the cell phone that I sometimes use, I've never seen a HRT program or listened to a radio. Here's the truth, but they don't care at all. Simple, but not guilty on HRT. They are guilty of citizens who support the parties in the elections that have passed the law in fact gnawing citizens. So the citizens in the election support the policy they're working on about their head. Then they complain about why the system destroys them. Dear citizens go to the polls and support the Living Wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74138	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next debate is the individual respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74139	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Here's to my discussion of this Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, I am glad that even during yesterday and today many proposals could be heard and there have been good proposals for constructive discussions and since this is going in the first reading, all of this can be evaluated if there are certain things to improve this bill. It's good to consider such things. I volunteered for the debate precisely in favour of it, I didn't know until yesterday when it would last, so we spoke in replicas, and when we heard about this Court of Justice Act we immediately talked to local leaders or permanent services both in Imotski and Makarska where we thought that in one first draft this area would fall under the Municipal Court in Split and Dračevac 2 respectively, and then we said that it was not acceptable for those areas precisely because of large distances, bad bus and other connections and cost increases. Yesterday, the prime minister said the law was passed among other things and due to the rise in the effectiveness of the judiciary, the even burden of judges, raising the accessibility of courts to citizens and rationalising and bringing together criminal and municipal courts. We then made one analysis regarding both permanent services in Imotsk and Makarska, then we still had in mind some other things that did not happen, it might be better if they had happened then and from the island of Hvar, but that didn't happen. There were about 8,000 unsolved cases with the number of judges 13 and 3 court practitioners and 30 employees in both courts. We talked then that it would be good, given that a criminal and municipal court were joined and that there would be a growing number of cases, that the municipal court would be in Makarska and that the permanent service would be in Imotski. We are pleased to hear this proposal which was logical was rational and reasoned and we may not be as some, and we could hear it in the debate both yesterday and today insisting that the Imotski Municipal Court must remain as we heard about the Municipal Court in Sinj or Novi Gradiška yesterday, so we remain on that mental frame that in each place we must have a municipal court, that in every place we must have a state attorney's office. We may not be aware that society is not static and that circumstances change. The Ministry of Justice is confident in the analysis before this law and there have been some solutions in the work itself that would improve the efficiency of the work of municipal courts and I am glad that it happened. What I'm trying to say is maybe, and that's what I remember very well when the State's Attorney's Office in Imotski was abolished, and then it said negative effects not only because of the court but also because of the costs that were going on, and I believe that in the future, one part of the criminal department should think, and maybe even from Makarska happens in the permanent service in Imotski at the trial I'm saying that, especially with insults, with slander, with minor injuries, and there's a limit somewhere within 55km, so we know that there are various things that happen in that space, and maybe in the future we should think about it. On the other hand, when we talked about the arguments, then we talked about the relation of employees in courts, so both in Imotskoma and in Makarska almost all those officials who have almost 85 live in the area of Makarska and Imotski away from Split, which would further, further increase costs, reduce working conditions and definitely as such would not be good. The third thing we talked about, which is to make it easier for citizens to access. So that should be taken into account and something Mr Milenic said today that we should not talk about whether or not there are political proposals on the part of the SDP, HDZ or some other political options, we are talking about civil services here. So he was talking about some fateful days, but specialised judges who can solve certain cases far easier and faster, and yet in favour of citizens knowing the situation of the judiciary today. E with this application, there must be no distortion of the central state's interest on the one hand to rationalise the judicial system and no less legitimate interests of the local community's population to keep the ordinary right of trial and progress in the environment in this case we talked about Imotski and Makarska. We've also done an analysis of pending cases of litigatory, executive, extra-parish, legacy and land-based books that were in Imotsky 4153. In this permanent service there were 7 judges, 21 of whom 1 court expert, 19 officials and 1 tenant, and 4718 cases with 6 judges, 3 judicial advisers, and 26 officials and 4 subsistence officers were held in Makarska. So we got 13 judges, 4 court advisers, 45 employees and 5 ten deputies, of course, the total number of cases of outstanding permanent services in Makarska, Imotski presented 8932 cases without criminal cases and without work cases and land books, so it was to be assumed that the joint court would have had almost 10 thousand cases in the case before joining with the permanent services of the Criminal Court in Split. I am pleased because in this bill of law, therefore the County Court in Split for the district of the Municipal Court in Makarska and the Municipal Court in Split is one and two. For the municipal court in Makarska for the municipality of Baska Voda, Brela, cyste Provo, Graca, Lokvičića, Lovreč, Podbaba, Podgora, Prolosac, Runović, Tučep, Zagvozda and Dragons, as well as the cities of Imotski and the town of Makarska themselves. I believe a few more colleagues will speak in an individual debate on the proposal of this law that there are enough arguments for the proposal of this law in the first reading, that certain things that we have heard today may be possible to improve, that some things that have come from the opposition should be taken into account. And if there is a valid solution that they should also be incorporated into the draft law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74140	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my individual debate, I would refer to the package of these laws exclusively related to the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Courts. Namely, this bill establishes the number of courts, determines their jurisdiction and seats, and we see that this is a longer number of years and that the majority of governments are implementing a particular reform of the judiciary, but thus rationalising the network of courts. By reducing the number of courts, we also reduce the administrative network, i.e. And the number of management personnel that we can definitely commend in this bill. And it goes to the very goal of reducing the burdens and judges, but also the speed of resolving the disputes themselves. In my presentation, I will refer more spatially to a small patriotic local in the County Court in Split, i.e. municipal courts in Split-Dalmatia County exclusively spatial. And we can definitely praise the establishment of ten new municipal courts among which here we are from Split-Dalmatia's most interesting just the municipal court in Makarska, which, as my colleague spoke before me, will cover the area of the Makarska Riviera and the Imot region. Statistically, I think it is logical and it is justified, while the issue of organisation and establishment is definitely being raised right here in Split 1 and Split 2 which will be dislocated. As I understood the ministry thought to leave Split 1 on Dračevac, while Split 2 should be in the centre of the city where the Municipal Court used to be. And now there may be some confusion, some problems when calling citizens to court themselves when they get calls from the court one and the court two, where there may be concrete problems and where this function of the law that is the main item is to facilitate the access of the courts to the citizens. It can be a little problematic in Split. We know that Split-Dalmatia County is both the largest and most widespread territorialally demanding when we count both Zagora and coastal and island islands, so that even now access to certain courts can last for two days until someone is on the ferry, spends 4 hours on it or starts saying from the Vrlika path of Split, which is about a hundred kilometers. It could be quite an undertaking. Something that is close to someone's hand and in the center of Split-Dalmatia County it is quite demanding and problematic. That's why this story that's been going through the debate and where there's been some confusion that some permanent services are going to happen, i.e. Some municipal courts have to put an end to it, and that's where we've seen the minister's guarantee that it won't happen. And this morning's meeting with the mayor of Split-Dalmatia took place in this direction and should definitely be commended, because however permanent services in certain cities, especially in the Split-Dalmatia County, are certainly justified and statistically must exist. But it is precisely because of this territorial distance where some places per hundred kilometers away from the county headquarters are definitely justifying themselves access and establishment, i.e. Retention of permanent services. As for connecting municipal and infringing, here we are through the debate a lot of colleagues have identified the subject. We have also received some assurance from the ministry and we can trust that this is definitely rational and that this will help reduce the number of cases and efficiency itself. And I think the judges will definitely be able to adapt to the new system and manage to adapt to the new area of trial. But I would go back to what I first came forward for, and that is the spatial problem of courts particularly of the Municipality of Split and Split-Dalmatia County. We know that the Municipal Court is currently in the Dračevac area which is the farthest part of the city of Split very poorly connected, especially by public transport. In my view, it is a great injustice done for the court in Split not only for the sake of the court, but also for the Faculty of Law in Split, for the sake of lawyers, public notaries, all institutions needed to do something in court. Now it's pretty remote and isolated. It's enough that you lack tax stamps if you don't run one trafic near the court you'll have to make 5 to 10 km just to do the most necessary thing that was normal in the city center before. It has been known in Split since ancient times when we say we are going to court, it was known which building we are going to. It's going to the county building, i.e. Then there was the Municipal Court. And my proposal is, here is the minister's guarantee that during this month he will visit the Split-Dalmatia County, remind all the premises of the court and see what is most plightful. My question was through this reform planned to transfer that municipal two, transfer to the Stande building, I don't know, at this point, whether the ministry predicted that cost in its budget, because we know that this building is a commercial storage facility and it's not fit for court, there's no window, there's not much left. And it's one big construction procedure to adjust that building. My proposal is, if at any rate possible, unlikely to be viewed here by the State's Attorney General, namely, the municipal court should definitely return to the county court building which is much smaller and where the county court is now, but also the State's Attorney's office, which is the party itself in the process, so it is not quite appropriate to stand in the same building, floor to floor with the county court. I think that the entire municipal court can stop, and the county court can definitely move to another more adequate location because it's much smaller. And I think there's definitely enough city and state space in the city of Split. And not to mention the very idea in the county court parking lot, which has enough space, that there should be one and a judicial square, one administrative square, which would consist of a series of buildings that would be connected to the public administration and allow citizens a much better approach to the court. Not to mention the illogicalities, that I think the Administrative Court in Split is paying a huge amount of rent for the rooms in which they are, and that is definitely not economical or adequate. So, here, this way purely for legal reasons, I think that the lawyers in the Split area and lawyers and state lawyers, but everyone else in order for this proposal to definitely be, would not require great costs. And I think it's a short and fast move, because it would get very good results, because I repeat, Dračevac, as attractive as it can be for a lot of other activities or to give it to the university or to put something else in there, because there's plenty of room, but definitely for a court, as it is municipally, is not nearly adequate. There is a line that drives relatively rarely and is not accessible to our citizens. So, here, finally, let it be a little criticism, I would like the minister to consider, to see what can be done, we would be happy to welcome him to Split's Dalmatian County to see on the spot, the very premises of all courts. And here's to the end, let's definitely work on the accessibility of the courts to benefit the citizens and return that saying, when said, in Split, i.e. in Split's Dalmatian County we go to court, to know where to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74142	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74143	Thank you, Vice President Reiner. A nice greeting to esteemed counterpart Martinovic and his co-worker. So, I will strive in this united debate, speak in two parts, one will refer to the Law on Court Courts, the other to the DSV laws. I'll just say, the critical part has positive things, but what's critical, I think it's necessary to stress today, because I think the government of the Republic of Croatia, in today's situation in the judiciary and the primary perceptions of the situation in the judiciary, was not allowed to go into partial judicial reform, but rather to do so in full. It was certainly necessary to cover other laws, primarily, the Executive Act and the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and I will try to explain it with some examples. So here we've heard arguments that it's important to round up the courts, because that's how judges' specialty is going to be achieved, that's one notorious nonsense. So, out of almost a million items, you have a pattern few. You have all the doubts, through legal views and attitudes at civil or criminal court sessions, very easily levelling and that argument absolutely does not stand. So, completely all governments and the Ministry of Justice and Ministers have been wandering around with a structure since 2008, looking through a more economical system, so to be less cost, to get better results. Exactly, this system has produced over 300,000 blocked and this today's legal system as it is, simply needs to be systematically and thoroughly changed. Why is that? I'll read you two examples, where people cry out for legal aid, which they can't afford because they're blocked. So, the man owes 500 kn HZZO for additional insurance, 2010 is a run-in. He owed 4266 kuna at the beginning of the year, he wrote a complaint at the end of 2012 about the decision to perform with the public notary, sent it to him. The municipal court in Zagreb forwarded his complaint and file to the Municipality Court in Karlovac, in order to be scheduled for him to debate in the permanent service in Ogulin. So, I asked the gentleman, sir, where you from, he says from Zagreb... 41. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what are you gonna tell that man? How these changes that are now being numbered and discussed will help reduce or increase the legal element. On the other hand, a lady who says, I have five children, I lived with my wife and I sat down, we bought the apartment during the duration of the marriage, I went to the tenants, he went to the trouble with his wife, he went to Austria, he stopped paying the bank credit, the bank gave the apartment on top, the apartment was run on him. Therefore, it cannot protect that home, although it is a marital fluid because it should be entered previously, the bank does not provide any data because it is not a credit user. He has a 2490 kn child's allowance that she would give to keep all that one apartment. It's protected as the only apartment of that property, but it can't prove it because it's simply not listed. So then these arguments that the previous minister was saying will be solved via internet ownership papers, in a situation where giving an example of Visa, when you have 90% of the land's unsettled book state, we're talking about rationalization through the network of courts. So that's total nonsense. If the courts were able to function from the time of Austria to Hungary, I will not now take my example of the Djurjevac or these other courts which are permanent services or will be established permanent services, if it became necessary, they had a far more orderly system of property ownership then it exists today. If we have a situation where people don't trust public notaries, i.e. the documents that are being forged and that are being paid directly through the FINA, then which is why if we're already joining criminal courts with the municipalities of one judge, we don't determine that he's working on business, so we're issuing an order. It'll be cheaper for people, the cost of the execution will be controlled, and we won't put people in a position to have four thousand kunas in debt for 500 kunas. On the other hand, one huge problem that is emerging today in the Republic of Croatia and which makes it difficult for the legal system to function inadequately free legal aid. So you can't expect 320 thousand people to be able to afford lawyers and the right is largely a matter of process, a matter of time, a matter of action. And when you don't take a timely shop, you can't be as persistent and persistent in 10 years in the future to correct those failures. So I think this proposal for a new network of courts doesn't actually lead to anything. It should be nomotechnically arranged so that, because they were once called municipal courts where courts existed, we still have one or two judges who will have certainly what to do until Croatia is ready to digitise its land books and we know that it is very, very far away and that those other jobs that are not suitable to do in small courts, whether criminal cases, or proceedings or some others are done in other courts. You now have the example that in a municipality or city you are called the court’s permanent service of a neighboring city. And then clearly you create antagonisms, you create unrest, and I don't think that's good. Since it is the first reading I believe that the second reading will look at the whole situation in which the Croatian judiciary is located and extend the circle of laws that will be passed and that this will not be proposed a mini reform. On the other hand, as far as the Law on the State Judicial Council is concerned, we have heard more lay speeches than a little legal or constitutionally subjugated. So there weren't once two members of the State Judiciary Council from the line of attorneys. As well as my colleague Milenić and I are lawyers, we could still be members of the State Judiciary Council today if we passed the procedure there. One big injustice is for members of the state judicial council in the part where their standard is lifted, so the liberations they have based on work, they have so far had 50%, now it comes down to 0%. I think you need to leave 30% because these are sessions that last a few days in continuity and these judges won't be able to do their jobs and their jobs. Then we have a proposal to amend the law so no one can be elected twice. In turn, I think what's the difference whether he's been chosen twice in a row or he's been elected now and then again after the expiry of a certain deadline. I don't think this provision is in line with the Constitution, and we can expect these problems as well. On the other hand, the reduction of the points that are allocated from 20 to 15 from the total number of points that the candidates for judges bring to the interview, which is a maximum of 150 points, actually reduces the independence and independence of the State Judiciary Council, which must have mechanisms to correct certain situations according to some common position and opinion which relate to the quality of the individual judge. Because you know that let's say that the presidents of courts over 20 judges are 100% free of norms they'll come very easily by solving some land-based book items up to 120 norms, they'll take 90 points and some very high-quality judges who work on work disputes or some old cases will come into a position that will be better able to get 75 and you'll come into one self that you won't be able to bridge. And there's been a lot of talk about that framework criterion that needs to be corrected because otherwise the obligation to name judges with the highest number of points will bring worse results than it is now and clearly not everyone can always be satisfied with the results. It is also not appropriate in my view that two Supreme Court judges are chosen solely by the Supreme Judges. So 1,100 judges of municipal courts elect one candidate to the State Judiciary Council and cannot therefore choose those candidates who come from the ranks of the county courts, so 3 candidates and those from the Supreme Court. I think that there is one restriction and a reduction in the rights of judges who should be fully involved in the selection process and must be allowed to select all candidates, i.e. to manifest themselves to all candidates independently of which they work. It's also not an acceptable provision that the President of the Court can only be twice but only after the adoption of this law because the one who was 4x means it's still going to be 2x, 6x, which is not in line. There are also objections to the strict provisions, I think the purpose and purpose of the strict provisions that as far as citizens are concerned, that they get a first-degree ruling within 3 or 6 months, then within 6 or a year, a second-degree rule rather than a statistic as a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74144	Thank you. The next individual debate is that respected representative of Robert Podlonjak. Here you go. I did, then you messed up my list. [[I apologize.]] Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing now first the part concerning courts, after which we will move to the part relating to the state's attorney's office, but we are discussing the laws that are presented as a mini judicial reform. It should be fair, be honest and say that this is not a mini judicial reform but only about redistribution from the area and headquarters of courts and state lawyers. And we've got a few other changes, some of them better, some of them even a few other changes. Some of them better, some less. But the basis of what we started to discuss yesterday, we'll probably be discussing by the end of this day is simply redistribution. I'm going to start with those other parts that are somehow coming out of that redistribution, and I'm going to start with what we're supposed to do, what I think is the most positive, and that's the part that applies to the judge's property cards and that's related to their announcement. I absolutely support the proposed solution in the part in which this solution relates to the obligation to publish. However, I am afraid that the motion for this act in its preparation has gone in the right direction, and then stepped halfway. The norms that regulate the issue of dealing with the property cards of judges, and it is repeated later and with the state's attorneys, are undernourished and not resolved, i.e. in some segments, are poorly resolving the issue. I would ask the Proposer to consult the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the way property cards are treated here until the second reading of the Law. There are two examples I'd like to give you. One is the time limit for submitting the report if there has been a certain change in the property of the judge. Here it is foreseen that if the judge has changed it must do so at the latest by 1 March of the current year for the previous year. So, for example, in early 2018, your property situation changed. You will have to report it in February 2019. Even in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we have quite a long deadline by the end of the current year in which the change took place, I think it would be more appropriate in the same way, and in the extreme line for legal certainty that all areas of property cards are equally resolved to install it into this law. The second part is the provisions on the protection of personal data. In 2015, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data adopted an extremely controversial solution which resulted in the withdrawal of all government officials' property cards led by the Committee for Decision-making in the conflict of interest because it estimated that some of these data published represented the personal data of officials and should not be published as such. I'm only going to set one example, and that's an example of whether the official has children or not. And at first sight everyone will say it's a data that shouldn't be made public. However, if you look at what the official has to publish, then you can see why the information on whether he has children or not is something that enters the property card. If you have underage children, you must publish information about their property. If you have a spouse, you must publish information about his property. Because otherwise, if I don't have to publish them and if personal data are protected the way it's supposed to be here, then to a judge who's corrupt, nothing will buy him himself, but a wife or underage children. Therefore, pay attention to these provisions, as well as to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and look at everything that happened during that controversy regarding the decision of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. At that time, the Parliament had to amend the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests in order to address this problem and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests explicitly stated that the provisions on the protection of personal data do not apply to officials with regard to the data published in the property card to which the official of their submission is obliged by the Law on the decision of conflicts of interest. Another example of a good solution in a law that has not gone to the end is the election of the Supreme Court president. It repeats itself again, and since everything is evenly repeated, it also repeats itself in the election of the state's chief attorney. If you look at the observations sent by the distinguished colleague Kos in the public debate, not the part relating to the circle of people who are being elected, you will see something very interesting, which is that in the way provided for by this proposal for the President of the Supreme Court, a person who has not passed the security check may be selected. I think you'll agree with me that this is a very dangerous situation. I know that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not provide for a security check, but the law says that the President of the Supreme Court must meet all those conditions that he would have to meet to become the Supreme Court judge. One of these conditions is security clearance. That is why I propose that in the law, in the section relating to the election of the Supreme Court president, the issue of security checks is included to make sure that we do not have a situation, and recently I believe that we have read in the media that certain candidates for judges have not passed the security check. But now I'm going to go back to what I started with, and that's redistribution. My colleague Sokol has very well pointed out the problem of lack of objective criteria, i.e. that we did not get the criteria on the basis of which this redistribution of the seat of the courts and their areas took place. I absolutely accept the fact that an area covered by one court can't be less than 50,000 inhabitants, but it's simply not enough. When we started reorganising the courts five years ago, it was accurate and it was prepared for every area of the court as many cases as there are, how many judges, how many lags, etc., which is the burden and everything. We knew why we were doing it. If you have that information, and I'm sure you haven't done it without it, I'm asking you to make it available, or to deliver it to the MPs in order to remove any doubt that this is about something that's most common auctioning. We heard a few predecessors from my colleagues saying that they were lucky to open up in their neighborhood. I am also happy about Pazin’s opening of the court, which is that the Municipal Court in Pazin is being restored. But I still want to ask you if that's objectively justified. Because local patriotism cannot be alone and must not be the only thing that will lead me to decide whether a law is justified or not. The criteria as many as we are local patriots must be the same for Istria, the same for Split-Dalmatia County, Osijek-Baranja, etc. This is what is missing from this law and what puts it in danger of being considered a bid, and regardless of being a representative of the opposition, I come from a legal profession, these are the fundamental laws that determine, regulate the action of one of the most important branches of legal work, and that is a trial, and I do not want these laws to leave any doubt behind. But speaking of redistribution, there's one part we haven't touched at all. I'm not going to talk about what's going on with the High Court, it's already said enough, and I hope that until the second reading, they'll consider whether we need that court because I'm convinced that county judges can handle cases that come in connection with a mistrial without a problem. With an organization that we have already said, we have established at other branches that, for example, I will repeat, the County Court in Pula decided to appeal the judgment of the Municipal Court in Split, I do not see any problem that the County Court in Pula decides on a complaint about an infringement case coming from either the municipal court in Pula or the municipal court in Split, one, two or as we will call it. But when we talk about county courts, and why what I'm telling you is important, we haven't touched the problem at all that there are a number of county courts that don't have enough work to do. They don't have a job. I promised my colleagues I wouldn't mention the name and last name of a county court, but we have a county court that had 15 criminal cases over the year, so that doesn't make sense. And in order for the county court to function, we have to have more than one judge, we have to have enough judges to set up a council to decide in such a way as not to let one judge the case, judge the council and everything else because then we have to exclude ourselves, so we have to have 5 or 6 judges in the county court so that he has to do his criminal affairs. It's something we haven't touched in this, and we have to get rid of. And what I'm going to end up with because these 10 minutes are very fast, at least to me, I trust those who listen to me not so quickly expired, the High Court of Penalty. I'll repeat it every time I talk about this law. Either we give up on him or we get rid of him now, here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74146	Thank you very much. There's been a call from a colleague named Robert Dolnjak for the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think that in his presentation that unfortunately lasted only 10 minutes and didn't have enough time, I'm interested in that attitude around the High Court, it's a lot of talk about him, we have a delay in actually getting him into work, and we actually have something that has a consensus on its time, now obviously not anymore. We are definitely not sure why and what the position of the promoter is actually around that High Criminal Court since it is not mentioned anywhere in this mini reform and should take a position and for that reason here, I ask a colleague of the coat of arms what he has not arrived to say, in fact what your position is, you are actually, I think, and the government that the SDP had, if I am not mistaken, is inclined to introduce the High Criminal Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74148	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74149	Thank you. So I've expressed my position on the High Criminal Court several times, and the most I've talked about when we first had the Code of Criminal Procedure, because you'll remember, according to the first proposal that was sent this time last year, it was planned to start doing the High Criminal Court in 1.1.2018 even though we didn't have a single accompanying act that should allow it. I then asked the High Criminal Court to give up, when the minister changed in the meantime, it was delayed and that the start of the High Criminal Court or the beginning of the work was delayed to 1.1.2020, if I am not mistaken. This can't be considered a good solution, better than if it had started work 1.1.2018, we didn't have the means, we didn't have the projected building, we didn't have a plan for the judges' schedule, and we didn't have it in the Court Act. What else can I tell you? However, I cannot, of course, speak on behalf of the motionary, although every time I pointed out both the Minister and the Secretary of State who came from the ministry's order to talk about anything related to the High Criminal Court, they each said they were fully aware of the problems. But I can talk about my position which is why I personally think we don't need that court. First of all, if you promoted the work of the Supreme Court and especially the criminal department of the Supreme Court, you saw that there was a reduction in the inflow of the case. But not only has there been a reduction in the inflow of cases at the Supreme Court in the criminal case, but the Supreme Court has continuously resolved these cases at the rate that the backlogs of the Supreme Court in matters of criminal matters are practically minimal. Of course, there are individual cases where he's late, but generally, the Supreme Court handles it. They solve county courts, where's the problem with a criminal trial? In municipal courts. And that's what we're going to solve now, I hope, and through these criminal judges, I apologize, who'll probably start doing criminal things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74150	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Yesterday we began this debate on the first set of judicial laws, and yesterday I had the opportunity to speak on behalf of the club in general about all three laws and amendments to the Law on Courts and Areas and Courts, so today I would concentrate in an individual debate on this law or amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council which also drew a lot of attention. It is, however, an important constitutional institution which is concerned that the independence and independence of the judicial branch preserves in that case concerning the appointment, choice, transfer and strict responsibility of judges. And that's why it's an extremely important body. Now, what is the first and important thing that we are stressing in MOST and I don't think it's burning to repeat it again in this part when we talk about the State Judicial Council continues to insist on what is not the content of the law but we would like to see in the change of the Constitution, which is that until the end of the composition of the State Judicial Council, any influence of the political factor is eliminated, which means that, in the composition of the DSV, we would like to see judges, professors of legal science, but not representatives who are now members of the DSV and these two MPs, one of the ranks of the parliamentary majority and one of the ranks of the opposition. For consistent implementation, independence and independence of that body in the implementation of the constitutional tasks it has consistently should be implemented in a way that does not involve politicians in the composition of that body. We believe that consensus can be reached on this, and that we at Club of Representatives, 14, will certainly support such a change if the parliamentary majority proposes it and we think that it would be consistent with the depoliticalisation of the State Judiciary Council. It is therefore the first preliminary thing that is not actually the subject of this law and cannot be regulated by law but it is extremely important to say it as a principled attitude. Secondly, a change is proposed in the composition of the State Judiciary Council and, in fact, this change is seen as a reduction in the number of members of municipal courts. And it has already been quite stated in this debate that the category of judges that is the most numerous which actually makes up more than two-thirds of the total number of judges will actually be marginally represented in the DSV. So just one of the seven judges at the expense of other high-ranking, Supreme Court and, of course, county courts and other courts. And we'd rather retain more representation of municipal courts than ever before. And I think there have been a lot of speakers in this debate who have advocated a similar solution. What has also been debated with a lot of critical remarks is the fact that you are reducing the release of regular judicial obligations for the president of the DSV but not for the members of the DSV. In principle, he said that if I am not mistaken and fellow Lackovic, who is a member of the DSV himself, that it is not good if that body is constantly working and is expected to make careful decisions about all appointments, tight responsibilities, the promotion of judges and that it is work and therefore, taking into account both the conversations and the points and everything else, it is one work that is not working one day a month, so something that happens in slow motion and that, according to the knowledge that I have, the suggestions were from Europe that this body is not already professionalised to at least be the case for the president of that body. And that if the work of DSV as a constitutional institution will be seriously approached, it cannot be done in such a manner within a few hours several times a month and that one quality application of that body cannot take place unless, at least partially, it is professionalised by at least the president of that body. What is important for us to point out is the solution that you propose that the mandate, which is limited to two terms of office of four years, take place in a way that no longer stands, so that there are no two consecutive mandates. So a very interesting solution. And I must say that I am personally inclined to such a solution and with the goal that you have pointed out to allow a greater number of persons and judges and also to be members of that body. And whether it is, I am not entering into a debate on the constitutionality of this proposal, the Constitution says that members have the right to be twice members of that body, whether or not I leave the deputies to debate and to take this issue seriously. What is more important to mention, therefore, is this report on the property of judges that has caused a lot of debate in the public, a lot of debate and in the debate with the interested public, but the fact is, this is something that is also proposed in the laws proposed by the Most Independent Lists, so we are absolutely behind this solution. What we looked at in the debate and the suggestions that were made, that's one thing that seems important to us, and that's the issue of publishing a property report through certain time periods. So your proposal assumes that this report will be carried out when the judge enters into office and when there is a major change in his property situation, this important change is not defined and the fact is, I think the Supreme Court judge, Mr Kos, who appeared in the public debate, is also not clear to him how this important change in property will be interpreted. And he gave a certain, in my opinion, good suggestions, one of them is that every 5 years a report is submitted, given that judges do not have a limited mandate, as do political officials, who submit the report at the end of the term or the beginning of any other political mandate, but this solution every 5 years seems to me quite high-quality and some other suggestions that Mr. Kos may make, so please consider that part too, so that we do not have any disputes in practice and many questions, which is actually an important change in the property state of a particular judge. It's better to have something of quality prescribed than to have a hundred questions, hundreds of judges, which is a major change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74152	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74153	Dear colleague Podolnjak, in my individual debate, I have made a concrete point of what is problematic to us in what the Government is proposing and I have put forward proposals to deal with it. We also gave two laws in the procedure, we're going to give the others involved in judicial reform, and you weren't here, I was talking about the State Judicial Council and the fact that we should go to this change that politics has no influence in the State Judiciary Council, i.e. that MPs don't sit in that body. I presented a particular case, where the calls in the State Judicial Council are practically used as an instrument of pressure on the MP, or, in this case, me, which warns me of problems in the Croatian judiciary and in the State Judicial Council, reacted in my opinion, completely inappropriately, although I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, I spoke specifically about the subject. I don't know for what reason, which hurt him in this presentation, but definitely the policy should be removed, in this way from the State Judicial Council and all these proposals that we've made, as regards the continued monitoring of the work of judges and their evaluations, because it's the only way for a more efficient, transparent judiciary with which ultimately, citizens, the public, and we here, too, talking about justice, will be satisfied. So I agree with this proposal of yours, and I think that's the way we should go, but of course, we can't decide on it either, and neither do I, because we know what kind of change it takes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74154	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74155	So we clearly and publicly expressed our position, depolitizing the State Judicial Council, limiting members' mandates, full public and transparent conversations, points, talks with candidates, maximum objectivity in deciding on the choice of candidates, with as few subjective impressions as possible of the talks that ultimately affect the crucial, not knowledge, career and what is the virtue of each candidate. Transparency in decision-making, transparency of the actions of all judges. Of course, public deception of all property cards and that's what we think, that we need to strengthen the perception of independence and the quality of justice, and when we say independence, we mean independence from politics. What warns us about the analysis and examination of the European Commission is that our citizens and companies find that our judiciary is not independent of politics. And that's a brutal grudge against our judiciary. How we will free ourselves from the influence of politics, rather than by removing politicians from that body and allowing the judiciary to make an open, transparent, objective decision on the candidates for judges, for their promotion and for the strict responsibility of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74156	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74157	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here, during the debate yesterday afternoon, I said my views and a part smaller in the debate on behalf of the club, the fact that the State Judiciary Council didn't talk about it, but I will say that it was a body brought to the political level, more politically than Parliament. Because the fact is that the example, reports against his colleagues, by his second colleague, Mr. Lackovic, who is a representative of the State Judiciary Council, who is in the State Judiciary Council, and also appoints judges, tells everyone that this is an unremembered precedent, which says something is not rotten. This we all know that the judiciary is absolutely rotten and that simply on this example, the case around my fellow Grumoje is all clear and visible. And that the cadiya sues him, the cadija sues him and he's been bitten in parliament, of course from Milan Bandic's list, and it's supposed to be. Here, I will now return to the amendments to the draft Law on Areaal Centres of Courts, once again, to what is the meaning of this law, according to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, dear secretary. Yesterday you had a meeting and I saw you in the ministry and the secretary next to you sir. The fact is that this Law on Courts and Seats, you say, is a reason that global courts, such as the Split Court, are difficult to manage by amending the laws of 2015 and the Zagreb Court of Justice. And then there is a precedent that is nowhere in the EU, they say will no longer be Split, but will be Split 1 and Split 2. Well, that's, I don't think it's funny, but it's tuna. It's really sad to me, while in the back we have the Dalmatian Zagora, we have the center and the Dalmatian Burn, the city of Sinj. Only the Cetina province, and that's why we had a meeting two days ago, all the mayors, the mayors of the Chetino area. Here I am sorry that he is not here, colleague Šipic, probably he has a presentation and supported the Municipal Court. It wasn't last night, but I believe it is today. I was in the Gorski Kotar of the same forgotten parts. And then that court, supported by fellow Sipic and all local leaders, including the mayor. We had an 11 o'clock meeting yesterday, but then they raced before me for two hours, and they basically gave up on the court. But the people of the Chetino region and the Dalmatian mountain, I tell you by the second reading, they won't give up. That's enough of the institutions being shut down because it doesn't make sense. I, here it really doesn't make sense that we have in the same town of Split 1, Split 2, and we have in Sinj a court that has been operating since 1875 during aliens, during Austro-Hungarian time opened, and now in Croatia the state is closed in the heart of the Dalmatian Zagora Sinj. Let's not say it's over 50,000 inhabitants more than Licko-Sen County. The area is larger territory than Međimurje County, but you obviously have no problem with what this part of Croatia will be extinct as well as the Gorski Kotar from which I came. And that's one of the demographics, too. 100 km from Vrlika to Dračevac, people will travel, even more without secure public transport, without the court's position, but 15 km closer to the court's position in the military Dračevac. Something the minister told me would be an expansion in the current court building in Split, Split 1, Split 2. So do not triba us Split 1 and Split 2 for the Dalmatian Zagora. So the Split Municipal Court which Split deserves and, of course, instead of Split 2 it is part of the Dalmatian Zagora which belongs of course is known to be di. The Dalmatian Burn Center is Sinj. But of course you as a ministry obviously don't want to react to all the leaders of local self-government but you'll have to react to the people, because it really isn't enough just to come to the days of Sinj Alka in Sinj. We're glad, we're friendly and welcome and I'm calling you again. However, this is the end of which the Cetina province has only 50,000 inhabitants, and surrounding towns, municipalities close to up to 70 and more thousand inhabitants. So I'd like to ask you one more time when you've been making changes to these courts' seats, since you've already done that, I know you've found some reasons because I can see that you're happy to give me some kind of solution now. Do you deny me if the greater Cetina landscape is superficial than Međimurje County? Is it the same number as Lic-Sen County without these neighboring municipalities? You cannot deny it because you are doing it under the lights of Zagreb. You don't know what's in the field, I'm sorry. I'm sorry about that. I'll meet you downstairs. We have the quality of blue prosciutto that you have often tasted in the days of Sinjska alka as well as of Vrhorska and Držnik. And that's all you obviously remember from that field. Once again, I ask you that this people do not deserve the abolition of institutions, and not only is this law bound, but the law on state attorneys of the municipality, so seven, eight employees went to Split from Sinj. It's a demographic picture. That's where the movement is made. And why would that, well of course it's 15 jobs, 40 in court. Costs. Listen to travel costs are calculated, 40 people to Split pass how much the court will cost. But you say this: that you will have a permanent service, and you have already abolished 2015 by changing and working disputes and criminal disputes about what was in Sinj. And since everything in Sinj was robbed of course not of their tribune, all the companies are not tripping to us State's Attorney's Office in Sinj because you didn't solve anything, nor do you care what was robbed, but even some have created their own empires. I'd like to ask you one more time. Here's another piece of information. So the spatial size of the Cetina landscape extends to 991 km2 and to the Međimurje County 729. It means that the Chetin area is Split 2. You have now named the Dalmatian Zagora by Split 2. Split has its own Municipal Court, which is why you change the law because it is massive. So in Sinj it was invested in a building that is now in 2002 15 million kuna you invested in the building. I don't know if you hear well, 15 million in the building you invested. 40 employees to travel every day on Split – Sinj route, that hundreds of people travel to litigation. However, you say it will be permanent service. Who's going to determine? ... ask the President of the Court, because you may be planning to be in power for 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The president of the court will decide whether there will be disputes whether he will be in a permanent court, in a permanent service in Sinj or be in Dračevac. Of course, in Split there's a lot closer to them than the Dračevac that those of our people who live 100 kilometers in the Dalmatian Zagora, that they will send to travel by buses, cars. It's mostly an older population. And of course this is another one of the laws that is demographically essentially impacting the Dalmatian Zagora. And this is a targeted and systematic state doing the same thing. Em, what does local self-government do depending on the central government, so they have to come to you bowing and shaking hands with the prime minister to get some money, I just don't know what it's for. It's a promise, so they find some man who's going to run the government, because they're forced by poor people, poor local self-government leaders. Decentralize. So, you just so that the Dalmatian Zagora and the Cetin region don't have a court, you called the Split 2 Court of Justice. So we have Split 1 and Split 2. For Dalmatia, it's a disaster! And since 1875, the court has been a municipal court in Sinj as the center of the Dalmatian Fire. I see my friend Juro Martinovic is laughing a little bit. And it makes sense, but the fact is, I don't know what it's like in Savina I'm sorry, sir, where you're from. But indeed, in the Cetitian province, this authority, if it didn't allow this, was changing in 2015, so Split was ok. And now that he's working 10 new courts, from 24 to 34. If you go around the Dalmatian Zagora, then I really don't know what to tell you. Here's what I don't know what to tell you, but it won't work out like that, they have other instruments that legal citizens can take, so here, I invite you all to come to Sinjska Alka in advance, friendly to the prosciutto as before, and that's all you've made out of that prosciutto because you've eaten a little bit, but we're a little more friendly. Please once again, in good faith, I spoke to the minister, who agreed that this is a problem, I am sorry that the mayor and my colleague Šipic, quickly gave up the meeting in Sinj after 10 hours, have already fallen a little short, but I hope that until the second reading will return to the Bob track to say on the tracks. What belongs to the people, that end of the Dalmatian Fire. Here, once again in good faith, I invite you, feel good about it, not Split 2 is needed but a court for part of the Dalmatian Burn, which is the municipal court in Sinj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74158	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you spoke about judicial reform and you spoke about the courts in Sinj and you said it was one of those measures and demographic measures. I would agree with you that judicial reform is indeed a demographic measure, because the mass of the young leaves just when they see the judgments of our judges, i.e. Unjudgmentary when items go out of date, in the event of masquerade, very famous for it. Here, the day before yesterday was the case, unfortunately, 2 people were killed on Treshnyvac's salary 6 years ago, and the verdict went out of date, so we have one minor reform, which in some way wants to improve the image of the judiciary in our public, and unfortunately this will not happen here unless our remarks in this debate are in force. So here, please comment on the fact that justice reform is actually a demographic measure, because people from Croatia are not only leaving because of the lack of money and work, but because of the injustice in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74160	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74161	You're from one aspect that I agree with you, looking at the meaning of this aspect... It's a verdict. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here's the Horvatincic case in Sibenik, so it just doesn't have a time frame, it's not the same judgment. And the ones you mentioned, the verdicts, that's what I think, so the fact is that all of Croatia was robbed, so the fact that in my town of Sinj, which did not have 5 kn in their pocket in '90. They didn't even win the lottery, they became the owners of everything that's worth it. So the judiciary doesn't do its job, and that's the second aspect now, I was just talking about that aspect of the division of the courts' seats. That's what I was talking about, so here, you could say, here, that the farthest points of, why it's important, but institutions in forgotten mountainous areas. Here, this morning you and I were in Gorski Kotar, so we saw, we started to melt snow, as soon as the snow started to melt, those mayors, the mayors, the local self-government stayed alone with the bills. No one remembers them anymore. They leave bills and even invite them to rebalance local self-government. So here, by shutting down institutions in these environments, jobs are being shut down, and these centres are being shut down, and that's historically important to get back, that for the survival of these people in those areas. Therefore, Split 1 and Split 2 are important. This is why they change the law, because of the massive systems of Zagreb and Split, the law... The thing that nobody's talking about justice and what it is, it's even familiar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this law speaks, or this case about his fellow Grumoja, where he stands out, and this one sues him, judges and votes here. And it depends on, then it has to... Milan Bandic, you all know that there is no such thing, but, I don't know, whether it's in Tajikistan or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is quite clear that this law must be, the changing bag, no Split 1, Split 2 for the Dalmatian Zagora. We've got Sinj headquarters. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74162	Thank you very much. And now he will speak to the Honorable State Secretary at the Justice Department, Mr Christian Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74163	Honored Chairman, Honored Representatives I thank you for all the debates, we listened carefully, we recorded everything, and we believe that until the second reading we will greatly address each of the questions mentioned here. [[Let him at least say the first word, come on.]] The issue of reform, mini-refomres, major reforms, of two laws, has often been mentioned here, etc. What I don't think matters at all is whether this is called reform or not, it's crucial to me here that this is about measures to further consolidate the justice system of the Republic of Croatia. So this part refers to organisational regulations. Organisational regulations have a total of 8, we have proposed 6, in this year's government programme, if you have seen another 2 and thus all the organisational regulations regarding the judiciary will be addressed. Of course, that's not all the Justice Department does, because there are other segments that work other administrations and soon you'll see their legislative proposals on the table. In addition, part of what is not legislative proposals are, of course, improving infrastructure, informing, introducing mobile technologies, that is, what is being done in parallel with legislative proposals. It was important to note that there was a public debate, a public debate should be understood in the sense it is. It is not just 2, 3, 4 weeks on websites, there are all those talks that the Ministry of Justice held in preparation for these legislative proposals. It is a visit to the Bul Minister of Justice and a expert debate on what needs or does not need. It's all those conversations with the Presidents of the Court. So, we've visited all of Croatia, talked to the mayors, and all of this is part of a public debate, soon comes to us, also one round table on family courts, it will also be part of a public debate with which we will discuss how the trial will make more appropriate for children. It is important to note that all of these changes that we have proposed, we have proposed on statistically based data, you will get them, we will publish them on web pages, you will see the reasons why we have proposed these 10 locations. What I responsibly claim to be the biggest backlogs in the courts are in Zagreb and Split, we have some 12 thousand cases that were in 2016 over 10 years of these cases are precisely in two courts. So that's what I think a very clear indication that large courts are simply difficult to manage. All other courts moving in numbers up to 30, 40 judges achieve excellent data, excellent results and virtually no such cases. So then it's a clear indication that you shouldn't have too many courts, you shouldn't have too few dishes. Of course, we, we listened carefully, once again we'll check that we haven't made any mistakes, statistics will be on the table so that we can continue to talk about whether or not we should have returned the court. What's important is that we don't shut down institutions anywhere, so the citizens will still be coming to Sinj, so we're getting stronger. These legal proposals return the criminal trial to permanent service. These legal proposals will therefore determine that the President of the Court will be tried in permanent service, this also applies to the criminal branch of the trial, this also applies to the working branch of the trial. What might be a shame if we hadn't discussed certain proposals on the boards because I believe that some proposals would not then be because it would be clear why these proposals were not accepted, we have analysed them through a public debate of course carefully. I'll take one example of a judicial inspection. To suggest that only the lawyers, or judges, do so, are thus missed because we need to know what the judicial inspector is doing if it is known that the judicial inspection controls the material financial operations of the court, we do not see how a lawyer can do it. So you need to look at what a judicial administration is and start from being judicial inspectors. And of course the worst part of what's done in the judicial inspection is what the Justice Department officials are doing and that's why we've made such proposals. The evaluation of judges, therefore, has been in place for years now that they are being evaluated at annual level every year. So even when you go to progress you look at statistics and results, quality of work, not one year, not estimated at that moment, each year it is only then that you analyze the results of the last 5 years. So it's a completely wrong theory that only one year's worth of evaluation is now being introduced. The Judicial Council of our proposal, we did, so we analyzed what was a weakness in the work of the Judicial Councils and what is important, we strengthened them in a way that uniformises the methodology applied by the Judicial Council in the evaluation. How did we do that? By saying that the judge council on which the candidates appear will evaluate all candidates. So far, every judge council of its judge has evaluated and then we've had different methodologies. Now one judge council will evaluate all candidates. On the grounds of the Supreme Court's resolution, there were serious debates in the working group we had and after these discussions, we thought it was very risky to do what is proposed to already be prosecuted by the President of the Supreme Court. It is possible to abuse that institute, so at some lower local level to agree and let us now change. So it's a risky area, the task force has concluded that there is a need to avoid risks and while there is no clear situation that can't be put in place as a reason. So we stayed with those reasons that have existed so far. Also about the election of the Supreme Court president, we think what the minister also said that closing the circle only to the Supreme Court judges will actually reduce quality not to increase. We believe that even outside the circle and what has proven practice has very high quality. The minister mentioned President Ivica Crnic, we believe there were others, so such a restriction will then prevent some new energies from being introduced into the work of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia which could be found outside the Corps. About the suspension of the High Violent Court. We have talked a lot about what it would mean to abolish the High Criminal Court and now put 32 judges down to the level of county courts and deploy them throughout Croatia. I'm not sure that's feasible and that it's realistic and lifelike. So we've worked very closely on these provisions and simply talking to those to whom it applies because these are the people who are going to have to continue this work tomorrow we've concluded that this is about right now the most feasible solution. Erasing the Secretary of the Court. So those who know the role of the court secretary know that the secretaries of the court have been completely underrated, so they've been on the lowest pay, they've been doing the worst jobs. What we want to say when we talk about the manager, it's not the person who brings the layout solutions to the workplace, it's the person who manages the court, who cares about all those jobs like public procurement, ensuring everything that is necessary for the normal work of the court. So it's not just a lawyer, it can be an economist, it's basically a manager. So we heard the proposal to expand, we're going to promote, we don't think it's a bad idea to get any more because a good manager isn't just an economist, he doesn't have to be just a lawyer. So, all the suggestions we've heard, we're going to carefully analyze, and by the next reading, we're going to believe what's constructive, which contributes to further building the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74164	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74165	Dear Secretary, I'm going back to the seats because I was saying yesterday, you were here with the minister, but the fact is that the mayors, the mayors of the Chetino area, the mayor, I'm sorry again that he is not a colleague of Šipic here,... here said your clear position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not because it is patriotic but illogical for the Dalmatian Zagora to be the Split II Municipal Court. If the problem was the size of the management as you state the huge system, the Split Municipal Court, I agree, Makarska down ok, so there is no reason to be in Split the municipal court for Split I, the municipal court for the Dalmatian Zagora Split II. And we don't have an adequate space solved, it's known to you that the ministry will need to invest, and in Sinj, the centre of Dalmatia, ten years ago 15 million kuna was invested in a new facility, a remote court in Dračevac and Split over 80, 90, 100 km, no public transport, meaning not only that the judiciary is not believed in it, but you will now be doing damage to people who will not literally have the opportunity to reach the court. No public transport, those ends are empty. Just so you know, it was in Dalmatian Zagora before 2011. 146,000 people, now we have 26,000 less, 2016, excuse me. It means from 2011 to 2016. You simply have one area larger than Međimurje County, for 1/4, which has the same population as Ličko-Senj County, here you belong in Split II. Split has its municipal court, it is those coastal places, Makarska, down the municipal court and here the Dalmatian Zagora, it is the Municipal Court in Sinj, this part that is around it, it is over 60,000 inhabitants. It's both spatial and territorially large. This way I don't see the meaning of this law and of course we'll fight until the end to be the Municipal Court in Sinj based on the agreement we had... in Sinj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74166	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met and we will now welcome the students of the Forest Woodwork School from Karlovac who are at our gallery.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-07-0.u74167	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. Number 298, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 80 for, 18 abstentions and 20 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear MPs, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament, allow me at the beginning of today's session to congratulate all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, International Women's Day. On this day, we remember the long-standing historical struggles of women for equal rights as men do, the right to participate in elections, which were denied 100 years ago, and which we today mean as an unquestioned aspect of our civilization, the right to education, the right to conduct their functions in society, economic and social rights and all other rights guaranteed by law. It is therefore important today, but every other day to reminisce and honor all women who, with their persistent social commitment and political courage, have voted for their political, economic and social rights. However, the fight continues today because full equality has not yet been achieved. That is why International Women's Day must be a reminder of everything women have achieved so far, but also an incentive to further strengthen their position in society, without prejudice and discrimination. We need to be even more effective at curbing women's position in the family, as well as preventing and combating each form of violence and abuse. It is therefore our shared responsibility to continue to build and promote a tolerance and equal Croatian society. Once again, I wish all women happy International Women's Day. Now we're going to announce the agenda points with which we only finished yesterday and we're going to continue today, and then as I see it, we're going to take a break. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Prior to that, a colleague, Glasovic, answered first.
