ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109325	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement at the 74th session held on 28 November 2018 on the resignation of representatives of Dr.sc. Ivan Kovačić sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 22 November 2018. The commission found it to be Dr. Sc. Ivan Kovacic was elected representative in the 9th meeting of the HS during his term of office, the representative twice put his mandate in a standstill with the foundation of the article. Article 9 14. Law on election of MPs in HS. The term of office shall be based on the rules of procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. 14th Law of 5 December 2017, and on 6 December 2017, his replacement, Ante Pranic, began to act. The commission found that the resignation of Mr. Ivan Kovačić's representative, Ante Pranic, continued to act on the parliamentary duty of MPs, made the decision unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109326	Thank you. I am voting on the motion for a decision to suspend the parliamentary term of office of Representative Ivan Kovacic, please vote. I find that, unanimously with 94 votes, we have reached a decision on the termination of the representative's term of office, Ivan Kovacic. We are now going to the final point, it is the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Boris Miletic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Deputy Emil Daus. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report. I'm asking for a little more patience. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109328	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of HS discussed at the 45th session held on December 12th 2018 the written request of MP Boris Miletic, who informed the president of HS that I am based on Article 14. The Law on election of MPs in HS shall put a parliamentary mandate to rest on 7 December 2018. Boris Miletic was elected representative in the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the list of the Istrian Democratic Assembly/IDS, the Primorje-Gorski Alliance/PGS, the List of Rijeka/LRI, the 8th Election Unit, and the Istrian Democratic Assembly in accordance with Article 42, paragraph 3, of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament appointed Emil Daus, as deputy representative. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Boris Miletic's term of office, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Emil Daus. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9, paragraph 2, and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 5 votes to the ZA, proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of the term of office of MPs and to start acting as deputy deputies. On 7 December 2018, Boris Miletic, Emil Daus, acting as deputy representative, shall begin to rest, in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109329	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. I am closing the debate and I am voting on the report on the start of the stay of MP Boris Miletic's term of office, and the start of acting as deputy deputy, Emil Daus. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, with 92 votes, we have reached a decision that has been proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we move on to making an oath of counsel. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he shall appeal by name to the representatives, the appointed representative shall rise up and pronounce the word of the oath.> I will read the text of the oath: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work, that I will stick to the Constitution and the Law, and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like Agent Emil Daus to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109330	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109331	Thank you and I congratulate you on your sworn oath and I wish you a great deal of success in the conduct of this honorable duty. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is where we came to the end of the 10th session, and I'm finishing it. I invite you to hang out, and on behalf of all of you, all Croatian citizens and all Croatians and Croats around the world I wish for a happy and blessed Christmas holidays and a happy and successful 2019. Thank you. Hello. SESSION FINISHED IN 15.47 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109332	We'll continue the session at 1400 hours. Apprenticed representatives and MPs under Art. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Legislatives proposed to HS to conduct a joint discussion on the following points, i.e.: - The final proposal for a law on the termination of the law establishing investment and competitiveness agencies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 526, - Final draft law amending the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 524, - Final draft law amending the Law on Public Private Partnership, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 518, - Final draft laws amending the Investment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 525 and - Final draft law amending the Law on Cooperatives, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 527. Do you have any objections to the proposal of the Legislative Committee? We can see there isn't. Perfect. If there are no objections, we find that we will conduct a united debate on those points. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of Art. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172, Rules of Procedure on the work of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, whichever is the case. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, and now does the president want to give an additional explanation? With us is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Mrs. Natasha Mikush Zigman, here you are, Mrs. Zigman. I also wish you a good day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs at HS. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reached this conclusion that the authorities of the state administration are tasked with carrying out activities to implement or reduce the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority and the same conclusion is provided for the abolition of the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, or its accession to the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. In order to implement the same conclusion, we propose to adopt the Law on the termination of the law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, so this proposal proposes that the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts take over property, equipment, eyewitnesses, information systems, all means of work. Also, of course, rights and obligations, all documentation, as well as employees of the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, which would thus become civil servants or subsistence. So, by adopting this Law when we talk about human resources, the Ministry would take over 35 agency workers, this would also rationalise operating costs and achieve savings in total amount of 1.361.000,00 kn per year. This savings relates to the reduction of staff expenditure due to the removal of the director’s post, the reduction of material expenditure related to the relocation of employees at the location of the Ministry, thus reducing the overhead and the cost of obtaining long-term assets, and the use of equipment owned by the Ministry itself. This Law requires the harmonisation of the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to the tasks carried out by the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, so the draft Act amending the Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the tasks now carried out by the Agency, which relate to the application of strategic investment projects, then administrative verification of the same applications, means, the application of projects, the work of the operational group for the preparation and implementation of strategic projects and the implementation of all other administrative operations that the Agency has so far worked for the establishment of proposals for strategic projects, therefore, to take over the same jobs by the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Furthermore, it is also necessary to bring the Investment Encouragement Act into line with that Law, I think that you mentioned it lastly, Mr Vice-President, again in the section relating to the tasks now carried out by the Agency, and, therefore, by the proposal of the Law amending the investment law, it proposes that the tasks now carried out by the Agency also be taken over by the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. And the last law that needs to be aligned, therefore, with the expiry of the Law, with the Law which we propose to suspend the validity of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency is the Law on Public Private Partnership. Thus, with this proposal to amend the Public Private Partnership Act, also in the part of the business done by the Investment and Competitiveness Agency so far, we propose that the same jobs be taken over by the Ministry responsible for the economy. That's the first part of the point, this point of the agenda. Furthermore, the same conclusion by the Government, which I mentioned in the introduction, provides for the abolition of the Croatian Centre for the Association Entrepreneurship and its accession to the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts. In order to implement that conclusion, it is also necessary to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperative Act, so this proposal of the Act of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts would also, therefore, make it possible for the Ministry to take over property, equipment, information systems, means of work, therefore, all documentation, as well as workers of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, which also become civil servants and subsistence. Therefore, by adopting this Act, the Ministry would take over 5 workers of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship, which would also rationalise the operational costs of operations and generate savings in the amount of 437.000,00 kn per year and the savings I mentioned would be related to the reduction of staff expenditure, due to the removal of the director's post, then the material expenditure due to the transfer of employees, also to the location of the ministry and to the reduction of all associated directorial costs. So short, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109334	Thank you. The first 4 laws refer to the Final Proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law establishing the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, and the latter actually refers to the abolition of this section concerning cooperatives, of these 5 that we have united in the debate. We have one replica on your exhibit, this is a colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash, here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109335	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary. So, the argument is to abolish the agency, as you said, the government's conclusion. I'm interested in a single expert argument. So, which would be an argument why no longer an agency like the agency, but to work within the ministry. Which have improved, why do we do it at all, so the argument, we're going to cut, we're going to move, I don't know, we're going to do it differently, it's an argument that the government has decided to sign down to the agency that's going to cut. But I'm familiar with what is professionally known, in the workplace, which will make it better to bring us what we no longer have agencies, but within the framework of a ministry, or I don't know how you're going to organize, 35 people are going to do this job, and what is the improvement that we're getting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109336	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109337	Thank you very much for asking. As you know, throughout the process of rationalising agency bodies is being implemented within the European Semester, and this is actually a measure that has been expected since 2016, therefore, by the government to take action in this field. The government, therefore, has decided to launch activities in this direction, has identified more than 50 agencies for which the rationalisation process will be carried out, we are now talking about the first of these bodies. Therefore, we believe that the ministry will be able to respond in an equally successful way to the tasks set before it in terms of doing business with investors, therefore, to propose projects, which would be financed by foreign investment and also to help investors in practice in terms of incentives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109338	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If we don't continue the debate. We are starting a debate on behalf of the MPs, first colleague Miro Bulj, co-worker Mira Bulja is missing, according to the Rules of Procedure, losing the right to discuss these united agenda points. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Damir Felak, please welcome colleague Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109339	... As explained above, the first final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law establishing the Investment and Specificity Agency is. [[Specially enabled.]] This law proposes the abolition of that agency, whose jobs will be taken over by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. This change takes place in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public figures. The aim is to streamline business, optimise the process and organisational structure. We've heard from the opening statement that the savings will be achieved, I wouldn't list them, only I can hope, that really with these savings that are measurable, at the cost of the director and some material costs, that some things will be better agreed and that there will be savings in the long term, but not only savings, but also better work on these jobs. The second law is the final proposal of the Law amending the Act on Strategic Investment Projects, this legislative proposal is related to the previous abolition of this agency,... and taking over the agencies by the competent ministry, i.e. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts. It will take over these jobs, and I suppose these employees who have been in the agency so far will do so, but hopefully through these savings, which we hope, will then be used for possibly some other inside the ministry, so that they will be able to contribute even more to the quality of the ministry's work, but also better to carry out these tasks, which they have done so far as part of the agency. The third is the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law to the Public Private Partnership, and this law also comes to technical changes, i.e., corners. So, where the word of the agencies is mentioned, the word of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts is introduced into the law. The deadlines in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Minister should adopt an amendment to certain regulations, i.e. regulations and regulations on the internal structure. 4 The law is the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Investment Encouragement Act, it is also linked to the Law on Termination... , in the text of the law of the Agency is replaced by the words of the Ministry of Economy Affairs and, as is said, the 5th final proposal of the Law, amending the Law on Cooperatives, this proposal of the Law, is abolished, i.e. the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And his jobs and employees are being taken over by the Ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts. The aim is also to streamline business, optimise process and organisational structure. Some correct savings should also be achieved, but here he would say a few words about cooperatives in general. I think only the abolition of this centre will surely result in certain effects, but he has only 4 and 5 employees, respectively, and will act I think he should never have been founded. It will certainly work much more rationally through the ministry itself, but when we talk about cooperatives as some form that is offered to citizens, or anyone who deals with certain affairs, the OPGs and all others who are small entrepreneurs or craftsmen, I think that the cooperatives in our country are not sufficiently developed and that the ministry should work in the future to create a new law on cooperatives where all the benefits of association in cooperatives would be much better explained to people and that we would then have cooperatives, so that we could come to cooperatives that work in Europe and the world. Here, just one data in the world in every 7, every 7 inhabitants is a member of some cooperative, and in the Republic of Croatia every 200, that speaks enough about how underdeveloped we are, and cooperatives themselves have great advantages and certainly when, by popularising such measures of association in cooperatives, it is necessary to work on it. So I expect it to mean in 2019 the ministry which is now being taken over and this joint entrepreneurship centre comes before this assembly with a new bill of law that will be based on similar laws that other EU countries have. And then through and through this law and I say through education we try to allow people to be, to be in cooperatives, but to have these cooperatives act as companies, as companies in some way, to be a voluntary basis, and to get people to know the benefits of it, and not by chance to be forced into association, because throughout history our country has a lot of negative, quite negative, negative experiences have people with cooperatives, so maybe that's why people in Croatia are quite difficult to get into cooperatives, although they could provide them with great help and certainly improve a lot of business, especially these micro and small entrepreneurs. HDZ, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of all five of these legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109340	We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please. Here's my colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, and I'll only interrupt you a second ago, don't be angry. just to welcome the students and students of the Industrial Engineering School in Zagreb with their escorts, welcome. [[I won't be mad.]] Thank you. Here's a colleague. It's your time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109341	Thank you very much, thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, we have a set of laws in front of us, and everything is based on the fact that the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of an investment agency and competitiveness with a final bill based on that fact also has a series of laws that need to be changed. Argument, the government has made a decision to abolish agencies and is abolishing around 50th of what the agency and what it is and this week we'll have some more things to cut. And now you're always somehow trying to find logic, trying to find meaning, trying to understand why something is, whether you agree with it as a club or not, let's understand logic. But when you watch a little bit of it being lifted, I'm afraid there's no logic here, that there was one list, and then that list was crossed, and then everyone had to have a number of crosses, and that's how the decision was made. Among other things, when you go into this whole story then what's the first result, you change the tables, you change the solutions for jobs, you change the solutions for the year in this case, the officers, I talk primarily about the agency 35 are employed and they will be offered new contracts of work and they become civil servants. Those who agree will become civil servants and deputies, who will not likely be thanked. And that's not a certain way for you to treat people with potatoes, so now they're in one basket, so from one basket, you transfer the potatoes from one basket to another basket. People aren't potatoes and they shouldn't be treated like that. Equally what's the point of the agency? We have a few things you actually have, one thing is what kind of message you send inside, sometimes you set up agencies for a simple reason to give on the importance of a particular job, they can be more flexible in terms of activity significantly more operational than it is classic when you work at the ministry, but the message you send out. The point of setting up this agency, so I'm talking about the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness was that when the investor comes to Croatia, he gets one person who's in charge of him and then she, that person reads him everything he needs to do, that he's going to have to do it, whether he's going to have to change the plan, won't have to change the plan, whether all the special and previous consents, which the permits and thus actually coordinate and enables investors somehow simpler communication easier action. So the purpose of setting up that agency was in a way to actually boost investment, to make it easier for investors who come here to get along more easily in all of our laws. And now the decision, the agency, is more like it, now we've been joking a little bit, we've had a little agency that worked I don't know 4, 5 years, we don't have any arguments that she was doing badly, there's too many employees, there's no replicas, there's too many employees, there's not too much effect, there's too much budget funding, so all of these would be some arguments, and then they're saying there's no need for the agency, it's all going to work within the ministry, it's going to be a special service, and all that the investor comes to the economy, and in that ministry, entrepreneurship and crafts, and there's going to get all the instructions. I can generally agree with one part, I always watch it, if people experience all of our perturbations records and titles. And it's always a handsome example of the City of Zagreb. The town of Zagreb used to be, there were 15 municipalities in the City of Zagreb and one of them was Draskovic, there was Medvesčak, there were no municipalities for a long time and there are certain offices for that part of the town. And when my neighbor, I ask the neighbor where you're going, she tells me, I go to the Medvescak municipality, she still goes to the Medvesčak municipality she doesn't have, she knows which floor she has to go to, because she has to report something, but in her head it's all the same. This tendency of us, at some point, to turn everything into agencies, to seduce and we have out of the system, and then the tendency to at some point, just like that, to take the one that's white and we say, we don't need this, we don't need this, we don't need this. If there was one too many reasons why it didn't have to, which would be better achieved, in which sense it would be more pulsating, better and all, I would say, really, there's no need for it all together. There's no argument here. I've been thinking very carefully, the question I'm going to ask to the Secretary of State, I had to make a professional argument, why these 35 people should no longer be in that agency, but those 35 people will work in the ministry. What job? The same job, with what, you all need to know when they were at the agency, they were in one of those formations under the ministry, but they had one different way of working and working. When you work at the ministry, they become civil servants and work differently. Was that agency unnecessary? Wasn't she in the right way? Did she not answer everything she answered? That's the real reason. And there's no reason why the government's decision was made. I'm sure those people who do good work, whether they're in the agency or the ministry, but those who don't, they don't. But it's the message we're sending. We're sending a message that we don't actually know the left hand what the right hand is doing, that we're setting up agencies, so let's remember, that it's a little bit too small, that we have too little, so we need to cut them down, and then someone said, you need to cut 50, and then everyone has to suggest from their own resor, which is the most painless reduction, or there's another model, and that's that there are some people you don't like, and then this is going to be a way to get rid of these people a little bit more painless. I'm guessing it's not this second argument, it's the first argument. Principleally if you're doing savings, if you're doing that the whole process is better, that in that whole process someone will eventually come to a solution, we wouldn't mind, but from this you don't have any guarantees, that it will be so. There is no guarantee that the investor who will now come to Croatia, who will now report to the Ministry and get his own man who will be in charge of following him, and that was the purpose of the agency, that he will be faster, better, more effective, that he will function more easily, there is no single guarantee. So, you have the law, in this law there are these 7.8 articles, which the agency says stop working and all these other laws are actually, just a disputation, because you have to mail them and logically go into emergency procedures and at least make everything formally satisfactory. But, in essence, it should be what they do, how they do, why they do, what processes, who does what they do, what investors get all the data they need, give them the same time data, which are laws in force, who are in charge of them, whether they will still remain the person in charge of making investors, and then contact local self-government units or regional self-government units in the part that they need. So, to that answer there is no, that's the answer to the whole story. So, we have now, this week will be very interesting. Now, here we are, we're having this agency abolished, then tomorrow, we're going to have retirement tomorrow, we're going to have that big inspectorate, where we're actually all inspectors, we're going to go to one place, and we're not going to know the same thing, why it's going, and then they're going to end up being seduced again. In doing so, we often like to deal with EU experiences. Different. There is no recipe, which is a recipe for cookies, you need that, and that, in order to be good, fast, and effective, are different experiences. But you've always had these experiences in a way, and it's the result of something doing, that's the result of something success. I've never had a chance to hear anyone complain about the work of this agency, that someone said that this agency worked badly, that someone said they were sloppy, that they couldn't get information, even more. The agency was well spoken of, it was said that indeed every investor and not a lot of them, got a man who followed him, who called for them, also called the local self-government units, because what you need to know, when someone was building something, wasn't always the responsibility of the state or the responsibility of the unit of local self-government, and I heard that it actually turned out to be a good story. Why are you doing this now and going to the ministry, we'll see. Maybe in two years, some other council or the same assembly will listen, too, and someone will say that when we were in the ministry, it wasn't good. Now we're going to re-establish, maybe it's not going to be called an agency, but it's going to be called a special administration or an office or something. Somehow, it would be a good message to both us and everything, when we decide something, let's try to give it a chance, for a while to do it. I have a feeling here, you know, sometimes someone works and then we have the results of the work. And sometimes someone works to work. I have a feeling that the abolition of all these agencies and all of this, just to show that something's going on, and without the real effect, we at the GLASs Club and HSU can't support it like this. We understand and understand and understand and save, but we really can't support this kind of thing, actually all the time turning from hollow to blank with no real effect and no real reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109342	Thank you, too. We continue with discussions on behalf of the Club of Representatives next is a colleague named Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please welcome colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109343	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and fellow MPs. Therefore, it is not doubtful that, first of all, it is the political decision that has been made to go into a reduction in the number of agencies. I do not want to believe that it is because it is constantly pressuring the public and negative comments on a large number of agencies where no one knows what it is doing and why it is doing, but that it is really going towards rationalisation, saving, according to one of those things where surely by multiplying certain legal forms requires certain jobs, systematicisation, which can certainly be united under the same roof for more agencies. And I can accept that. We, when we talk here, if I'm not mistaken, about two such institutions, are the first Croatian Centre for Joint Entrepreneurship, and the second is the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness and all related laws for those two agencies, we, if we can remember 2015 exactly the same thing, have abolished the Agency for Public Private Partnership under the same or similar reasons by transferring it to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness. So there's something that's already connected to some of the same arguments. And when we talk about a public private partnership, which I'm sure is a subject that I can't say right now, that Public Private Partnership Agency or the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, as far as it was concerned with public private partnership. What should be said is that we have currently in the Republic of Croatia 16 agreed projects of a public private partnership, 16. When we remove what was done from 2005 until 2008, in 2009 in the Varazdin County, powerful schools and some hall and gymnasium in Koprivnica, if I am not mistaken, then we have Zagreb Airport as the last example, a billion and 400 million out of 2.5 billion. Arena Split, Varazdin Hall and Bus Station in Osijek, the whole country 4-5 projects, two public lighting and what I said. We still have nine intentions and nine approved, but unimplemented and unsigned contracts. So 16 contracted, nine more reported, that's 25 and 9 approved, and you don't know where it stands, 24 for the whole country. So, there needs to see what the problem is and why it's not, we know that it's a crisis, funding is the first and the main thing that has caused the projects to stop, but I certainly know that the implementation of the public private partnership is extremely complicated, difficult and generally hard to implement in all their benefits, but with their own shortcomings. And I believe that a public private partnership as such can bring this country benefite is not the same as if in 30 years we have 30 buildings after 30 years or in the first 5 we already have them, and spend the same amount of money and transfer responsibility to the privateer, that's the point. Let's do something now in 3-5 years, than every 3 years something, so up to 30 years, just when we're done with the whole... We can start over if what we did 30-40 years ago should be done again. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a real story, what color cats are, I think it's less important, if it's called AIK, CPP, AIP, or something under the Ministry, it's important that that cat hunts mice. That's what we have to watch. Of course, one director, the board of directors, so when we talk to all these agencies, so they're not even citizens with a reason to have a series of, a series of agencies where certain jobs are certainly submerged that could be put under the same roof and where these same people, now we're saying that they're going to be deployed into civil servants, could be used in other jobs, that then they're not being hired by each of those agencies again, and that they can come here by pure mathematics, if you like, to any surplus that can be distributed where they're missing. That's what we have about outsourcing, most of the time, because you should, if we're talking about cleaning up maybe five cleaning girls and of course you can't just hire five, it's at least seven, because if someone's on vacation, they're on sick leave. And when you take the company, you pay only 5, and that company has 500 and so is here. And that reason I can understand, I say in 2015, we put this very Public Private Partnership Centre, or the Agency, together in this AIK, with the same more or less explanation. But I say once again, this HNS technical club will support it if it is part of the overall reform of reducing agencies and I think it is something that the public will accept, but remains the main goal, not that there is no, but that what it is founded on is done and results, is there to underline the line and say what was better or not, and here we have to be honest, whether this will result in more contracts if we talk here about a public private partnership, which is the Law, and it is changing among others, more contracts and ways of easy getting those Treaties, because these numbers I think for one country, for the last 10 years, not 10, but almost 15 years of extremely unfavourable, we have to ask ourselves why, I know that the part was due to the crisis, because of the difficulty of getting funding and the cost of the money itself, but surely there are positive examples, here, and in Osijek Bus Station where many, we feel that the people are going to the wrong when there are not even more than the people who are going to be able to be able to do it, and even to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do it, and the most, and the most, because, and to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to But I want to and I want to believe that this project of a public private partnership which also had problems in financing and the company that funded it has fallen into financial problems and in advance of a bankruptcy settlement. I'm saying, the crisis has done its part, but we need to understand, adapt, and see how to approve as much as possible, that it's not just about doing where the state pays, that there's also a private interest that's absolutely legitimate to connect the private interest in profit, not in some other way, with generally socially acceptable things. It is the meaning of a public private partnership and that is what I would like to appeal to now be taken through the ministry when the merger continues to take as one of the priorities and ways to further encourage this country towards investment and economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109344	Thank you, too. That's what ended the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Now we're going into individual debates. The first is a colleague of Romana Jerkovic. A colleague of Romana Jerkovic does not have, thereby losing the right to participate in this agenda point, i.e. points. Next up is a colleague of Gordan Maras. Same here. After that, he is a colleague of Ivan Lovrinović. He doesn't even have a colleague of Lovrinovic's. And then Peter Škorić stays. Here's your colleague, Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109345	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor's fellow MPs. I will look back on, only the part relating to the accession of the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship in the Resort Ministry and I will point to aspects of the cooperative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia which had different... Therefore, from problems, the problems of cooperative society are present for a long period of time because no one has dealt seriously with them and what has practically been discredited as a bad legacy or as a relic of socialism, although in the Western world it is precisely among the most developed economic branches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in the Netherlands, we have 1,000 inhabitants, 1,000 cooperatives, because one person or more, a member of several cooperatives. Since a few years ago, cooperatives have also gained the status of protected non-national assets of UNESCO and therefore after a tragic period of communism, unfortunately cooperative society has set out with the intention of destroying cooperatives where various predators have practically worked on it in order to get their hands on valuable assets. And that was often in relation to here and various local politicians. So the cooperative had this negative ideological omen where it was labeled, evaluated, and made it impossible for it to stick and build and grow. Unfortunately, the solutions we had in independent Croatia since '95. the year when it was founded in the essence of the Croatian Associations, it was also improvised to these changes during the time of here the previous government at the Croatian Centre of Association Entrepreneurship, so it was more intended to organise some form of care, the ensuing of a number of people who would not serve the interests of the cooperatives than who would practically serve the ensuing of a few individuals in these cooperatives. And that the proof of this is also the testimony of the number of associates who were in Croatia, which has been coming down continuously, so here for the last few years we have witnessed with 4 and some thousand that now it has fallen all on a thousand cooperatives who are paying their taxes. And of course, one such condition is unacceptable and it is necessary to find a model that would solve the issue of thus a better quality relationship with cooperative entrepreneurship. Here is a colleague, Felak, mentioned that in the world every 7th resident is a member of a cooperative and in Croatia only every 200 thousand people are silent. I reported on this topic for the reason that I was here a month and a half ago also participated in an international conference on cooperative entrepreneurship where cooperatives are marked as a key economic branch which guarantees its prosperity and where we had opportunities to hear and representatives of the Italian cooperative alliance which is essentially very well organised and where the total of Italy contributes strongly here and participate in the total income in Italy with 8% in GDP income while in Croatia only 0.3%. I'll read you just what he told us on that occasion, the head of the Italian cooperative alliance, so he said the following. It is very important to understand the idea that cooperatives function as companies and Croats must get rid of the negative perceptions of cooperatives as a socialist relic. Cooperatives operate as companies but the management method that differs from the management method in the standard concept of the company is exactly what defines them as cooperatives. Cooperatives also want to achieve profitability by acting on the market and to find their place on the market and cannot rely solely on state aid. Of course, state support must be present in creating a legal framework. In our country, cooperatives are strongly present in all segments, resulting in the fact that one of the 5 citizens of Italy is a member of a cooperative and almost 15% of the banking sector and banking credits is organised according to the cooperative model, said Alesio Dio, president of their Alliance of Cooperatives. Here's the clue, and that's what the Ministry of Economy has proposed, in essence, a new institutional form, so finding new support to turn this negative legacy into a positive, therefore, that, with the aim of joining and connecting cooperatives, rather than disintegrating them, because now we've come to say a very low and unacceptable level. And that is why it is also proposed that this model be re, in fact, that the Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship be included in, join the ministry at an appropriate level of organisation, so at sectoral level. And the transition to the ministry will essentially provide institutional support to the entire Croatian cooperative. So it is a prerequisite to adopt a new Cooperative Law, to open a space for strengthening voluntary cooperative alliances because cooperatives must also be our country's strategic interest. So it is finally time for one legislative framework to be put into the legal essence of cooperativeship, and cooperatives with their cooperatives must be an integrated economic whole or a single taxpayer, which they are not. It also gave a study commissioned by the Economic Institute in Zagreb where proposals were made for the promotion of the cooperative economy in our Croatia, so the study said that the value added tax could be completely excluded from the relationship between the cooperative members and the cooperative itself in a way that members of the cooperative and the cooperative themselves are considered a single taxpayer for delivery or service provided by each other. Also, the Croatian Tax Act on additional value has not allowed a single taxpayer to date, although this would be possible under the directive. This means that transactions between cooperative members and cooperatives themselves would not be subject to additional value tax because there would be no supply or service in the sense of the Tax Act on additional value. Also, in order to bring this all together and to implement quality the next step is to pass a new law on cooperatives and, as far as I know, here is the Ministry of Economy on this intensively and over the past year has made a great effort to analyse the situation in Croatian cooperatives. This study has been carried out and results in the need to do what is necessary in order to strengthen cooperation in Croatia. This primarily refers to the next step now through amendments to the cooperative law to be defined as a single taxpayer in the production process together with its cooperatives. All in all, therefore, cooperation is an important economic branch that needs to be developed and encouraged, especially in terms of employment and self-employment, and I support therefore such a form of organisation and I propose that, in essence, I encourage the resolution ministry to pass a new law as soon as possible which will restore the importance and role of Croatian cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109346	Thank you, too, for your exposure, we have three replicas. The first is a colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109347	I would like to thank the Vice-President, dear colleague Škorić, that I have missed a special note about this abolition, therefore, of the Croatian Centre for Association Entrepreneurship. I must be honest that I am this for the first time today, that is, when this bill came here for the first time and found out that we have such a public institution which is actually a legal successor to the Croatian Union of Cooperatives, and that is actually what we are discussing here today, and why in early August and that decision was taken by the Government in order to just abolish all these agencies and different bodies with public powers in order to streamline business, optimization of the process, etc., and what I was saying, but what you said here certainly deserves a broader debate because it is not a question of cooperatives and the circulation of production, because it is one way to optimise our agricultural production and bring it to sustainability. That's where I absolutely agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109348	Thank you. Would you like some answers to your replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109349	So here's colleague Curai basically stepped up here and this is what I was talking about, so in any case we can no longer allow here after and this accession to continue to be on the sidelines in further steps. I am sure through the heretics of the resolution ministry that models and ways will be found and that cooperatives will gain more appropriate importance in order to contribute overall to the stronger economic development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109350	The next replica of counterpart Davor Vlaovic, please. I apologize to her, I'm sorry, Zeljko Lenart, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109351	Nothing, thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Škorić has noticed quite well in his debate, unfortunately in 27 years the state has not done anything right for cooperatives, we just fear them with what used to happen with cooperatives and that negative contaminant. What is important in cooperative society is the interest of those who join the cooperative, and we have not given them any interest in why they would join the cooperative, first of all, here I am talking about the farmers that are closest to me. Let's say small farmers who join the cooperative to be freed from VAT, to free their leader of the cooperative from pay. These are concrete measures that the state can take to move association into cooperatives. Otherwise, only cooperatives don't make sense, because our people are the same ones without interest, and not just ours, but one Austrian told me, so I'm not in the community because I love cooperatives but what my interest is in the community. The administration of too much administration, too many obstacles have every cooperative, but we also destroyed agricultural production, so we don't expect any cooperatives. the State must change its position towards cooperatives. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109352	Thank you, colleague Lenart. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109353	I agree absolutely, I believe that cooperatives need to be resolved, and even protected by the Constitution, because if we so decided that the Constitution guarantees the satisfaction of interest for the benefit of cooperatives, then surely all laws and sublegal acts will follow. Therefore, this is the basis of now a prerequisite for further regulation, the adoption of a quality law in cooperation and with the former Croatian Centre for Cooperative Entrepreneurship and Cooperatives, and so that this would rise to a higher level and would practically enable our cooperatives to find the purpose and purpose of their organisation and activities and that the number of cooperatives in Croatia is growing, and not continuously dropping what has been happening in recent years, and we believe that here after the adoption of this regulation and the debate we will have and through the law that we will come very quickly to the position that we will encourage people to co-organise and action. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109354	And the last replica of your exposure. Comrade Babic Ante, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109355	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Škorić, I understand and dearly appreciate our debate about cooperatives, cooperatives, cooperative association and everything you said, but don't worry. Here I am and colleague Kliman here now and Mr. Shucker were talking about exactly what we were talking about in the Croatian Parliament a long time ago, and that's public administration reform and we said that they were not good... which happens to us in the state, whatever it is called in this case is the Croatian Center for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] entrepreneurship or whatever, but it's not good to have agencies or anything like parallelism to the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't believe the ministry can solve everything that was related to this Croatian centre. With that in mind, I think this is a good thing, that this is a good initiative. After all, all of us here, from both the ruling and the opposition, were talking about rationalising the public administration. So if we're going that way already, today or... I guess tomorrow and after the pension reform, we're going to talk about a series of laws that are needed because of the change and adoption of the State Inspectorate Act, and that's actually going in this direction... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109356	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109357	Thank you very much. Here are the reasons why we had problems like this, precisely because in Croatia we had cooperatives organized according to the dictatorship of politics. As such, it was violently founded and violently abolished, and that is what is not good. And that's why, everywhere in the world, we have basically cooperative alliances that volunteer, that develop organically, that have the legitimacy of cooperatives, and that's how they work through alliances. So I believe that here, the ministry will provide professional transport and the possibility for cooperatives to organise in one quality way, without the pressure of politics and with the support of all policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109358	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Natasha Mikush Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109359	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the applicants in front of them for the debate, for all the observations and proposals made, in particular on the subject of cooperativeship and what needs to be done in order to further improve the system, and regarding the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cooperatives, since the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament had an amendment that no-technically produced the statement in Article. 3. Proposal for a law. I would like to say in front of the promoter that we will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109360	Thank you for that, and we are concluding a debate on the five proposed laws, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109361	Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law establishing the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 526. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law establishing an Investment and Competitiveness Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 78 votes are in favour, passed the Law on the termination of the Law establishing the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109482	We are starting at the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 on the resolution of the issue of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market on the basis of citizenship, place of residence or place of business of the client and amending Regulations (EC) 2006/2004 and (EU) 2017/2394I of Directive 2009/22/EC, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 458. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, would the proposing representative give an additional explanation? Here we are again Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Mrs Natasa Mikush Zigman, please welcome Mrs. Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. This bill therefore ensures the implementation of the aforementioned regulation of the long term name, so I will not repeat it now. However, it concerns the issue of unwarranted geographical blocking. What does that mean? The aim of the regulation, which has been adopted by the European Parliament and the Council, is, in fact, to prevent discrimination between consumers and customers on the market on the basis of either citizenship or place of residence or business, in cross-border transactions between traders and consumers, i.e. traders and clients in the sale of goods or provision of services to the EU market. Why do I mention the word client? In fact, consumers are also a company, especially micro-enterprises, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often found in the purchase of goods on the market, so the goods they use during their production cycle can be found in the situation that they are discriminated against for reasons related to or the place of their business or consumers, therefore, with their nationality or place of residence. Therefore, the adoption of this Regulation was necessary by Parliament and by the Council and by taking over, therefore, the provisions of this Regulation into law, therefore, this is an implementing law, which, in fact, wants to ensure the effective and appropriate implementation of the regulation itself. To that end, the proposal for a law shall provide for the following, the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation, whereby market inspectors and inspection tasks in the field of consumer protection are those that will follow the application of the provisions of this Regulation, and then provisions for the conduct of the anti-registration regulation shall be laid down and the body responsible for providing practical assistance to consumers should there be a dispute between the consumer and the trader and, therefore, all of them, relating to what arises from the provisions of the Regulation itself. This body which is responsible for providing practical assistance is the European Consumer Centre within the Ministry of the Economy of Entrepreneurship and crafts. On the one hand, the adoption of this law, the implementing law, the Republic of Croatia, will meet its obligations, take over its entry into the EU. What is more important, however, is that there will be additional barriers to cross-border trade and that it will contribute to increasing electronic trade at EU level, i.e. Croatia with other Member States. What is even more important is that both consumers and traders will be given the right to a greater choice of goods and services, and a more encouraging framework and environment for growth in the EU common market. The working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, have unanimously supported the adoption of this proposal. During the public consultation, there was no comment on the text of the bill itself. And with all this, I propose the adoption of the Law implementing Regulation 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council and I also thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109484	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. We have a report of one on behalf of the club and one individually. A colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109485	Here, as we have heard from the respected secretary of state, we know that this law is very positive in the sense that it regulates online trade and we know that Internet trade is the fastest growing sector of trade and it is actually so dynamically growing that it is really hard to control it. What is important is to say, very briefly for this law that our citizens understand what it is, given what the secretary of state has said in this very long name. Croatian consumers should feel safe and equal in relation to all other consumers in other EU Member States. Also, Croatian citizens should not be deprived of some rights compared to other EU citizens. And in fact, the main objective of this law is that Croatian citizens and online customers have the same standards as the citizens of some other EU countries. And so far, before this law was passed, we have had the situation that Croatian customers who buy online are not treated as some other citizens from some other EU member states are treated. I also pointed to this when this Consumer Protection Act was passed, and now the proposal will go next week. And we know that the EU is taking steps to make the digital market as unique as possible by 2021, and one segment is exactly this segment. And it is therefore important to enable free movement of goods and services under equal conditions, under the same criteria. And any obstacle that is not in line with this is meant to be removed within the EU and within the Member States. And that's why this law wants to prevent the so-called. geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination. And of course the HDZ Club supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109486	Thank you, too. This also concludes the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Regulation and we will vote when the conditions are met. That's what we're done with the proposed agenda for today. We'll continue tomorrow at the usual time, with a set of pensions, I'll call them pension laws. So we start with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you very much and have a good afternoon. The session was interrupted in 15.02 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-03-0.u109487	Proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 on the resolution of the issue of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination in the internal market on the basis of nationality, place of residence or place of establishment of clients and amending Regulation No 2006/2004 and EU 2017/2394 of Directive 2009/22/EC first reading, P.Z. No. 458. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 on the resolution of the issue of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market on the basis of nationality, place of residence or place of establishment of clients and amending Regulation No 2006/2004 and EU 2017/2394 of Directive 2009/22/EC is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 79 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Just a second, we'll wait for the minister to come. He's in the board meeting. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
